WALLACE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Article I. Incorporation, Corporate Powers and Boundaries
   
1.1.   Incorporation
   
1.2.   Powers
   
1.3.   Corporate limits
Article II. Governing Body
   
2.1.   Mayor and Council
   
2.2.   Council; composition; terms of office
   
2.3.   Mayor; term of office; duties
   
2.4.   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
2.5.   Meetings
   
2.6.   Voting requirements; quorum
   
2.7.   Compensation; qualifications for office: vacancies
Article III. Elections
   
3.1.   Regular municipal elections
   
3.2.   Election of Council members
   
3.3.   Election of the Mayor
   
3.4.   Special elections and referendums
Article IV. Organization and Administration
   
4.1.   Form of government
   
4.2.   Town Manager
   
4.3.   Town Clerk
   
4.4.   Tax Collector
   
4.5.   Town Attorney
   
4.6.   Other administrative officers and employees
Article V. Additional Provisions
   
5.1.   Alcoholic beverage control stores
   
5.2.   Airport property
**** ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS
AND BOUNDARIES ****
Section 1.1. Incorporation.
   The Town of Wallace, North Carolina, in Duplin and Pender Counties and the
inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a municipal body politic and
corporate, under the name of the ‘Town of Wallace,’ hereinafter at times
referred to as the ‘Town.’
Section 1.2. Powers.
   The Town shall have and may exercise all of the powers, duties, rights,
privileges and immunities conferred upon the Town of Wallace specifically by
this Charter or upon municipal corporations by general law. The term ‘general
law’ is employed herein as defined in G.S. 160A-1.
Section 1.3. Corporate Limits.
   The corporate limits shall be those existing at the time of ratification of
this Charter, as set forth on the official map of the Town or in a written
description, and as they may be altered from time to time in accordance with
law. An accurate delineation of the current boundaries shall be maintained
permanently in the office of the Town Clerk and shall be available for public
inspection, as provided in G.S. 160A-22. Immediately upon alteration of the
corporate limits, the appropriate filings shall be made in the offices of the
Secretary of State, the Duplin or Pender County Register of Deeds, and the
appropriate boards of elections, as required by general law.
**** ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY ****
Section 2.1. Mayor and Council.
   The Mayor and Council shall be the governing body of the Town.
Section 2.2. Council; Composition; Terms of Office.
   The Council shall be composed of five members elected by all the qualified
voters of the Town for staggered terms of four years.
Section 2.3. Mayor; Term of Office; Duties.
   The Mayor shall be elected by all the qualified voters of the Town for a
term of four years; shall be the official head of the Town government and
preside at meetings of the Council; shall have the right to vote only when
there is an equal division on any question or matter before the Council; and
shall exercise the powers and duties conferred by law or as directed by the
Council.
Section 2.4. Mayor Pro Tempore.
   The Council shall elect one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore to perform
the duties of the Mayor during his or her absence or disability, in accordance
with general law. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall serve in such capacity at the
pleasure of the other members of the Council.
Section 2.5. Meetings.
   In accordance with general law, the Council shall establish a suitable time
and place for its regular meetings. Special and emergency meetings may be held
as provided by general law.
Section 2.6. Voting Requirements; Quorum.
   Official actions of the Council and all votes shall be taken in accordance
with applicable provisions of general law, particularly G.S. 1601-75. The
quorum provisions of G.S. 160A-74 shall apply.
Section 2.7. Compensation; Qualifications for Office; Vacancies.
   The compensation and qualifications of the Mayor and Council members shall
be in accordance with general law. Vacancies that occur in any elective office
of the Town shall be filled by appointment as provided in G.S. 160A-63.
**** ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS ****
Section 3.1. Regular Municipal Elections.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in each odd-numbered year in
accordance with the uniform municipal election laws of North Carolina.
Elections shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis and the results determined
using the nonpartisan plurality method as provided in G.S. 163-292.
Section 3.2. Election of Council Members.
   Two or three Council members shall be elected in each regular municipal
election, as the respective terms expire.
Section 3.3. Election of the Mayor.
   General elections are held every two years; the Mayor term is for four
years.
Section 3.4. Special Elections and Referendums.
   Special elections and referendums may be held only as provided by general
law or applicable local acts of the General Assembly.
**** ARTICLE IV. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION ****
Section 4.1. Form of Government.
   The Town shall operate under the council-manager form of government, in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2.
Section 4.2. Town Manager.
   The Council shall appoint a Town Manager who shall be responsible for the
administration of all departments of the Town government. The Town Manager
shall have all the powers and duties conferred by general law, except as
expressly limited by the provisions of this Charter.
Section 4.3. Town Clerk.
   The Town Manager shall appoint a Town Clerk to keep a journal of the
proceedings of the Council; to maintain official records and documents; to give
notice of meetings; and to perform such other duties required by law or as the
Council may direct.
Section 4.4. Tax Collector.
   Duplin County collects taxes through the Deputy Tax Collector, subject to
general law, this Charter and Town ordinances.
Section 4.5. Town Attorney.
   The Council shall appoint a Town Attorney licensed to practice law in North
Carolina. It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to represent the Town,
advise Town officials and perform other duties required by law or as the
Council may direct.
Section 4.6. Other Administrative Officers and Employees.
   The Council may authorize additional offices and positions, to be filled by
appointment of the Town Manager. The Council may organize the Town government
as deemed appropriate, including combining any of the offices provided for in
this Article, subject to the requirements of general law.
**** ARTICLE V. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS ****
Section 5.1. Alcoholic Beverage Control Stores.
   Alcoholic Beverage Control Stores shall operate within the Town of Wallace
as provided in Chapter 1004, Session Laws of 1965, as amended, and G.S. Chapter
18B.
Section 5.2. Airport Property.
   The Council is authorized, in its discretion, to lease, as lessor, sell or
exchange at private sale any lands now owned or hereafter acquired by the Town
adjoining the lands now owned by the Town for the Wallace Municipal Airport
upon such terms and conditions as the Council deems reasonable and necessary.
The Council is further authorized, in its discretion, to purchase or lease, as
lessee, from the owners thereof any lands or any interest in lands adjoining
the lands now owned or hereafter acquired by the Town for the Wallace Municipal
Airport upon such terms and conditions as the governing body deems reasonable
and necessary.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of construction
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   References to other sections
   
10.09   References to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computation of time
   
10.13   Record of ordinances
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed, unaffected, saved
   
10.15   Amendments
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Wallace, North
Carolina, shall be designated as the “Wallace Code” and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
general statutes of the state.
   (B)   (1)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the
general statutes of the state, the reference indicates that the section is
analogous or similar to the cited sections in the general statutes of the
state.
      (2)   Footnotes, cross-references and other comments are by way of
explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (C)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the town although the provisions may not be so
limited specifically.
   (D)   Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions hereof not incompatible with future legislation shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The town code as modified by amendment,
revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Wallace.
      COUNTY. Duplin County and Pender County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part-owner,
joint owner, tenant-in-common, tenant by the entireties, tenant in partnership
or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Includes person, persons, firm, corporation, copartnership,
trustee, lessee or receiver.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      STATE. State of North Carolina.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include
tenants at sufferance and tenants at will and shall include any person holding
a written or oral lease of or who occupies the whole or a part of the building
or land, either alone or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Wallace, North Carolina.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of that ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (C)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated, unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCES TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCES TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express that intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal law, shall
be the official time for the transaction of all town business.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this
code or by any ordinance, the day of the act, event or default from which the
designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of
the period so computed is to be included unless it is a Saturday; a Sunday; a
legal holiday, as defined by state statute; or a day the office in which the
act is to be done is closed during regular business hours.
      (2)   In any event, the period runs until the end of the next day that is
not a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the office is
closed. When the period of time allowed is less than seven days, intermediate
Saturdays, Sundays, legal holidays and days on which the office is closed shall
be excluded from the computations.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances hereafter passed and adopted by the Town Council shall be
recorded by the Town Manager in a book of ordinances. The original shall be
filed in the Town Manager’s office, and the Town Manager shall obtain and
attach thereto the proof of publication from the publisher for all ordinances
hereafter published.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED, UNAFFECTED, SAVED.
   (A)   Ordinances repealed. This code, from and after its effective date,
shall contain all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to the
subjects herein enumerated and embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the
subjects treated by this code shall be deemed repealed from and after the
effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
   (B)   Ordinances unaffected. All ordinances of a temporary or special nature
and all other ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall
remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
   (C)   Ordinances saved. Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either
authorizes or enables the Town Council or a certain town officer or employee to
make additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intent of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving such purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto shall remain in effect and are saved.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   Any chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may
be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages.
   (C)   Subsequent ordinances, as printed or omitted, shall be prima facie
evidence of the subsequent ordinances until the Town Council adopts a new code
of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
      
33.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tempore
   
30.02   Town Council members, oath and powers
Rules of Procedure
   
30.15   Regular and special meetings
   
30.16   Quorum
   
30.17   Presiding officer
   
30.18   Parliamentary rules
   
30.19   Votes recorded; tied votes
   
30.20   Communications, motions to be in writing
   
30.21   Motions having precedence; motions reconsidered
   
30.22   Accounts examined, certified
   
30.23   New rules; alteration; suspension
Elections
   
30.40   County to conduct
   
30.41   Time of elections
   
30.42   Polling place; voter qualifications
   
30.43   Eligibility to hold office
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 30.01 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   (A)   Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor shall be chief political officer of the town.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to:
         (a)   Keep informed as to the town’s business;
         (b)   Preside over the meetings of the governing body;
         (c)   Sign documents on behalf of the town; and
         (d)   To vote to break ties (when necessary).
   (B)   Mayor Pro Tempore. For provisions concerning the Mayor Pro Tempore,
see Charter §
2.4.
(Prior Code, § 31.18)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor, Council form of government, see G.S. §§ 160A-66 and 160A-67
§ 30.02 TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS, OATH AND POWERS.
   (A)   Members. The governing body of the town shall consist of a Mayor and a
Council of five members, who shall be elected in accordance with law.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)
   (B)   Oath. At the first regular meeting of the Council in December after
the results of the municipal election have been certified pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 163, Subchapter IX, and after having taken the oath prescribed in §
31.01 of this code of ordinances, the Mayor and Council members elect shall
assume and continue in office until their successors have been elected and
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
   (C)   Powers. In case of vacancy in the office of the Mayor, the Council
shall have power to fill that office.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 163, Subchapter IX
   Time of taking office, see G.S. § 160A-68
   Vacancies, see G.S. § 160A-63
**** RULES OF PROCEDURE ****
§ 30.15 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council shall meet at the Council Chamber at such time
as may be fixed by them.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor at the
request of two members or whenever, in his or her discretion, the exigencies of
the case may require it.
(Prior Code, § 30.15)
Statutory reference:
   Regular, special meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.16 QUORUM.
   (A)   A majority of the members of the Council, plus the Mayor, shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (B)   In all cases, a less number may adjourn from time to time and compel
the attendance of absentees.
(Prior Code, § 30.16)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
§ 30.17 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Presiding officer established.
      (1)   The Mayor or, in his or her absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or, in
the absence of both, any member of the Council who may be designated (quorum
being present) shall take the chair at the hour appointed for any regular,
adjourned or special meeting.
      (2)   The presiding officer shall enforce the rules of this body,
preserve order and decorum and appoint all committees unless the Council shall
otherwise direct.
(Prior Code, § 30.17)
   (B)   The Mayor or presiding officer shall decide questions of order,
subject to an appeal to the Council. The appeals shall be by motion and may be
debated.
(Prior Code, § 30.18)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor, Mayor Pro Tempore to preside over Council, see G.S. §§ 160A-69 and
160A-70
§ 30.18 PARLIAMENTARY RULES.
   (A)   The Rules of Procedure for the Town Council adopted 8-10-2017 and
amended 12-14- 2023 shall be the recognized exponent of parliamentary law.
   (B)   The Mayor, as presiding officer, shall enforce these parliamentary
rules as far as they are applicable to the Council and so far as they do not
conflict with the rules adopted.
(Prior Code, § 30.19)
§ 30.19 VOTES RECORDED; TIED VOTES.
   (A)   When vote recorded. Upon the call of any member of the Council, the
vote on any question may be taken by yeas and nays and recorded.
(Prior Code, § 30.21)
   (B)   Tie vote.
      (1)   In all matters pending before the Council, a majority shall govern.
      (2)   In all cases of a tie, the Mayor or presiding officer shall give
the casting vote, but at no other time and under no other circumstances shall
he or she be permitted to vote.
(Prior Code, § 30.22)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Mayor to vote, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 30.20 COMMUNICATIONS, MOTIONS TO BE IN WRITING.
   (A)   No communication to the Council shall be entertained unless it is in
writing.
(Prior Code, § 30.23)
   (B)   All motions shall be reduced to writing at the request of the Mayor or
any member of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.24)
§ 30.21 MOTIONS HAVING PRECEDENCE; MOTIONS RECONSIDERED.
   (A)   Motions having precedence.
      (1)   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but
to:
         (a)   Adjourn;
         (b)   Lie on the table;
         (c)   For the previous question;
         (d)   Postpone to a day certain;
         (e)   Commit;
         (f)   Amend; and
         (g)   Postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   The above motions shall have precedence in the order in which they
are here arranged.
(Prior Code, § 30.25)
   (B)   Motions to be reconsidered. A motion to reconsider shall not be
entertained unless it is made by a Council member who voted with the majority.
A motion shall be made at the same or next succeeding meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.26)
§ 30.22 ACCOUNTS EXAMINED, CERTIFIED.
   No account shall be passed unless examined and certified to be correct by a
member of the proper committee of the Council or by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 30.29)
§ 30.23 NEW RULES; ALTERATION; SUSPENSION.
   Any additional rule or rules may, from time to time, be made by the Council.
However, no rule shall be altered or suspended without the consent of two-
thirds of the members present.
(Prior Code, § 30.30)
**** ELECTIONS ****
§ 30.40 COUNTY TO CONDUCT.
   (A)   The Council of the town does hereby request that the County Board of
Elections conduct the municipal elections and referendums for the town until
this action is rescinded, and in the course of conducting the elections,
absentee voting shall be allowed.
   (B)   The town has elected to use System (1), as set out in G.S. § 163-279
(a)(1), in that the town’s elections shall be non-partisan, decided by a simple
plurality, and held on Tuesday after the first Monday in November. In addition,
special elections or referendums shall be held on any other dates required for
the elections or referendums.
   (C)   The cost of elections shall be borne by the town and shall include
such items as advertising, ballots, receipt books, election day officials,
mileage, seminars, administration and Social Security, records maintenance,
canvass expense, supplies and the costs required in compliance as prescribed by
G.S. Chapter 163. It shall be the duty of the county’s Board of Elections to
act in the most prudent manner to contain the cost of all elections to the
benefit of the town.
   (D)   The county’s Board of Elections shall provide the means whereby filing
for local offices may be performed at and within the Town Hall, as well as at
Kenansville. Further, the times in both locations shall be coordinated so that
any applicant then awaiting filing shall not be denied such a right because of
dispute as to the correct time at a particular location.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Res. passed 7-9-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 163 and § 163-279(a)(1)
§ 30.41 TIME OF ELECTIONS.
   The elective officers of the town shall consist of a Mayor and five Council
members, who shall be elected by the popular vote of the people. This election
shall be held on Tuesday after the first Monday in November, every two or four
years, as provided in Charter Art. III and G.S. § 163-279.
(Prior Code, § 33.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 163-279
§ 30.42 POLLING PLACE; VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   The election of the Mayor and Council members shall be held at the Town
Hall. No person shall be entitled to vote at this election or at any election
held in the town for municipal purposes unless he or she is born in the United
States or has been naturalized, has resided in the state and in the precinct in
which he or she offers to register and vote for 30 days next preceding the
ensuing election is 18 years of age or older, and has not been adjudged guilty
of a felony, as described in G.S. § 163-55(a)(2).
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifications of voters, see G.S. §§ 163-54 et seq.
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 163-55(a)(2)
§ 30.43 ELIGIBILITY TO HOLD OFFICE.
   No person shall be eligible to hold any office in the town unless he or she
is a qualified voter therein.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation; bond
   
31.03   Town Personnel Policy
   
31.04   Authorized personnel to ride in emergency vehicles
Officials
   
31.15   Chief of Fire Department
   
31.16   Town Manager
   
31.17   Building Inspector
   
31.18   Tax Collector
   
31.19   Town Attorney
Organizations
   
31.35   Airport Commission
   
31.36   Board of Adjustment
   
31.37   Planning Board
   
31.38   Recreation Commission
   
31.39   Fire Department
   
31.40   Police Department
   
31.41   Depot Commission
   
31.42   Historic District Protection Program Committee
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 31.01 OATH.
   (A)   The Mayor, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall
take and subscribe, before the officer authorized by law to administer oaths,
an oath that he or she will duly and impartially, to the best of his or her
skill and ability, cause to be executed all the laws, ordinances, and
regulations for the government of the town and in the discharge of his or her
duties do equal justice in all cases whatsoever.
   (B)   Each Council member, before entering on the duties of his or her
office, shall take, before the Mayor, an oath that he or she will duly and
impartially perform the duties of a Council member of the town, according to
his or her best skill, ability and judgment.
   (C)   The Mayor, members of the Council, and all other officers who shall be
elected or appointed to any office of trust or profit within the town shall
take an oath, in addition to the ones hereinbefore set out, to support the
Constitution of the United States and of the state.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
Statutory reference:
   Oath of office, see G.S. § 160A-61
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION; BOND.
   The compensation and bond of the Mayor, Council and all other officers and
employees of the town shall be fixed by the Council, unless otherwise provided
for in the charter.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Mayor, Council, see G.S. § 160A-64
§ 31.03 TOWN PERSONNEL POLICY.
   The Town Personnel Policy adopted 5-18-2014 is hereby incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth herein. Copies are on file in the office of the
Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
§ 31.04 AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL TO RIDE IN EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Only employees or authorized personnel will be allowed to ride in an
emergency vehicle that is responding to an emergency call.
   (B)   Exceptions to this rule will be reported to and reviewed by the Town
Manager on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   This policy will in no way apply to family members or dignitaries
riding in emergency vehicles during parades or other community-sponsored
events.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Res. passed - -2003)
**** OFFICIALS ****
§ 31.15 CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There shall be appointed every two years by the duly-elected and
incoming Council, at the first regular Council meeting during the month of
December.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief of the Department to:
      (1)   Supervise and direct the extinguishment of fires and any other
emergency incidents;
      (2)   Preserve and safekeep all equipment of the Fire Department;
      (3)   Compel, when necessary, all officers of the town or other persons
to aid in the event of any emergency response;
      (4)   Enforce all laws and ordinances relative to fire prevention;
      (5)   Perform or oversee, if in place the Town Fire Inspector;
      (6)   Annually report to the Council a brief report of the Fire
Department for each month; and
      (7)   Do such other and further things necessary for the proper and
efficient operation of the Fire Department and for the prevention of fire.
(Prior Code, § 31.16)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to appoint Fire Chief, duties, see G.S. §§ 160A-291 and 160A-292
§ 31.16 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Town Council shall appoint a Town Manager who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Council.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Town Manager to serve as the chief
operating officer of the town and to perform the duties assigned by law, town
ordinances and related work as may be required by the Town Council.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall coordinate the efforts and tasks of all
departments and execute all orders and directives of the Town Council; prepare
and administer the town budget, prepare financial and operational reports and
procedures as necessary to implement the policies of the Town Council; exercise
general supervision over all personnel; interpret ordinances and policies for
citizens and town employees; represent the town as various assigned meetings
and conferences; and perform other duties as may be required by the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
§ 31.17 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The duties of the Office of Building Inspector are conducted by the county.
(Prior Code, § 31.15)
§ 31.18 TAX COLLECTOR.
   For provisions concerning the Tax Collector, see Charter §
4.4.
(Prior Code, § 31.20)
§ 31.19 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   For provisions concerning the Town Attorney, see Charter §
4.5 and G.S. § 160A-173.
(Prior Code, § 31.23)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-173
**** ORGANIZATIONS ****
§ 31.35 AIRPORT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Authority. The Henderson Field Airport Advisory Commission (“the
Commission”) has been established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. The town operates the Henderson Field Airport
(“the airport”) for the benefit of all residents, business owners and visitors
of Pender County and the town. The Town Council seeks to ensure that the
airport is maintained and developed in such a manner that it will continue to
be a high-quality aviation facility for its users and a good neighbor in the
community, recognizing that both the users and community may change as the
county and town continue to grow and develop. The Commission has been
established to assist and advise the Town Council in the implementation of
these objectives.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Airport Commission shall be responsible for
recommending broad policies that affect the care and maintenance of the airport
and rules and regulations for safe and proper operation of the airport via the
staff member assigned to the airport. The Commission is hereby further invested
with specific powers as the Town Council shall prescribe through this chapter.
The Airport Advisory Commission shall have the following duties:
      (1)   To operate, maintain and regulate the Henderson Field Airport,
subject to any limitations set out in this section;
      (2)   To make recommendations regarding expenditure of municipal funds;
      (3)   To make recommendations on the lease of real or personal property
at the Henderson Field Airport, either from or to private individuals, subject
to approval by resolution of the Town Council in each instance; and
      (4)   To develop plans and make recommendations to the Town Council for
the future use and development of the Henderson Field Airport.
   (D)   Membership. The Commission shall consist of seven voting members; one
shall be appointed by the Town Council and one member of the Pender County
Commission or its designee shall be appointed by the Pender County
Commissioners. At the discretion of the Town Council, it may appoint one
additional at-large member.
      (1)   Due to being elected officials, appointees from the Town Council
and Pender County Commissioners can be removed from the Commission at its
governing body’s discretion, regardless of the member’s term expiration.
      (2)   The remaining five regular members are to be made up of individuals
in surrounding communities with backgrounds, qualifications and knowledge that
will positively contribute to the Commission’s ability to lead the airport.
When feasible, the Commission shall consist of fair representation from all
surrounding communities.
      (3)   At-large appointments are to be voting members that are appointed
by the Town Council. At-large appointees should consist of individuals with
expertise in industry topics related to airport operations and development.
      (4)   The terms of office for each Commission member shall be three
years, ending on December 31, except in case of a vacancy occurring during the
term. The terms of the members shall be staggered so that the terms of no more
than three members expire in any one year.
      (5)   If the Town Council or Pender County Commissioners does not appoint
a new member or reappoint an existing member on or before the expiration of a
member’s term, that member may hold over on a month-to-month basis until such
time as the member is either reappointed or a new person has been appointed to
the position.
      (6)   Members of the Commission may be removed at any time with or
without cause by two-thirds vote of the Council.
   (E)   Subcommittees. The Commission may form standing or ad hoc
subcommittees, as needed, and the Chairperson shall appoint committee members
to serve on each.
   (F)   Officers.
      (1)   The officers of the Committee shall be the Chairperson and a Vice
Chairperson.
      (2)   The Committee shall elect from within its membership, at its
regular meeting in January of each year, a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson.
The new elected officers shall take office upon election. A vacancy in the
position shall be promptly filled by the Commission, and such replacement
officer shall serve out the remainder of the term.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Chair to preside over all meetings of
the Commission, to appoint chairs of any standing or ad hoc subcommittees, and
to exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by the Commission. The Chairperson shall also be responsible for the
following actions:
         (a)   Motions in or out of order;
         (b)   Determine whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards
of courtesy in his or her remarks and to entertain and rule on objections from
other members on this ground;
         (c)   To call a brief recess at any time; and
         (d)   To adjourn in an emergency.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the Vice Chair to assist the Chair in the
execution of that office, to preside at meetings in the event of the absence of
the Chair, and to exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as
may be delegated by the Chair or as may be prescribed by the Commission.
      (5)   The Airport Manager shall serve as Secretary to the Commission. It
shall be the duty of the Secretary to maintain the minutes and other records of
the Commission and to receive communications and correspondence addressed to
the Commission.
   (G)   Meetings of the Commission.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Commission shall be held at 6:30 p.m. on
the fourth Thursday of each month, unless that day is a holiday; in which case,
that meeting shall be scheduled at the prior meeting. Meetings shall be held in
the Airport Terminal Conference Room. Any further changes to the date and time
of the regular meeting shall be made upon a majority vote of the Commission
members present at any duly organized meeting of the Commission and a notice
given to the Town Council within 30 days of the amendment’s effective date.
      (2)   Monthly meetings may be canceled due to lack of business or
interfering schedules with holidays or other activities. This decision will be
agreed upon between Commission members and the Airport Manager.
      (3)   Special meetings may be called at the discretion of the Chair or by
a majority of members.
      (4)   Agendas for meetings shall be prepared by town staff and emailed to
all Commission members and others on the approved agenda mailing list at least
one week prior to a meeting.
      (5)   All meetings shall be open to the public. The order of business at
regular meetings shall be as follows: roll call; approval of minutes; old
business; new business; consideration of other business; and adjournment.
   (H)   Quorum and voting.
      (1)   The presence of any four members of the Commission shall constitute
a quorum for the transaction of all business duly presented at a meeting of the
Commission, even if one or more members must abstain from voting on a
particular item of business. The Chair shall be considered for the purposes of
establishing a quorum and shall act as a voting member. If the Commission has
one or more unfilled vacancies, the presence of any four members of the
Commission shall constitute a quorum.
      (2)   Each member of the Commission shall have one vote, which shall be
exercised by the member, if present at a meeting, unless required to abstain
due to an actual or perceived conflict of interest.
      (3)   If all voting members are present, a tie vote may be broken by the
Chair. If a tie occurs with less than the full Commission present to vote on
the item, the Chair may vote on the item or direct that the item be brought
back for reconsideration at the next meeting of the Commission.
      (4)   No Commission member should take part in the consideration or
determination of any case in which he or she is personally or financially
interested.
      (5)   In the event that a member must excuse themselves from the
proceedings (due to conflict of interest or any other reason), that member
shall leave the room in which the meeting is being held (upon a motion and
second) and shall return subsequent to the decision of the Airport Commission
(upon a motion and second).
§ 31.36 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
    For provisions concerning the Board of Adjustment, see this code of
ordinances and G.S. § 160D-302.
(Prior Code, § 32.015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160D-302
§ 31.37 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment. A Planning Board for the town is hereby created under
the authority of G.S. § 160D-301.
(Prior Code, § 32.030)
   (B)   Members; vacancies.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall consist of nine members: five citizens of
the town, who shall be appointed by the Council of the town and a Chairperson,
as provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than the expiration of terms
shall be filled as they occur by the appropriate governing body as stated
herein for the period of the unexpired term. The Mayor of the town shall be a
member of the Planning Board, ex officio.
(Prior Code, § 32.031)
   (C)   Officers, rules and meetings. Within 30 days after appointment, the
Planning Board shall meet and elect a Chairperson and create and fill such
offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and other officers
shall be one year, with eligibility for re-election. It shall adopt rules for
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its members’ attendance and
of its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations, which record
shall be a public record. The Board shall meet when necessary, and all of its
meetings shall be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 32.032)
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Studies. The Planning Board shall make careful studies of present
conditions and the probable future development of the town and its environs.
The studies may include, but not be limited to: land use surveys; population
studies; economic base studies; schools, parks and recreation studies; traffic
and parking studies; and urban renewal studies.
      (2)   Plans. The Planning Board shall formulate and maintain a
comprehensive plan of the town and its environs for the purpose of achieving a
coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the municipality, which
would promote, in accordance with present and future needs, the safety, morals,
order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare of its citizens; efficiency
and economy in the process of development; conveniences of traffic; safety from
fire and other dangers; adequate light and air; healthful and convenient
distribution of population; provision of adequate open spaces; good civic
design and arrangement; wise and efficient expenditures of public funds;
adequate provision for public utilities; and for other matters pertaining to
the public requirements. The comprehensive plan shall consist of a number of
parts which may include, but not be limited to, the following: a land use plan;
a major thoroughfare plan; a utilities plan; a plan for economic development; a
recreation plan; a school plan; and a community facilities plan.
      (3)   Appointment as Zoning Commission. The Planning Board shall be
designated as the Zoning Commission for the town and its environs and shall
prepare a zoning ordinance to govern the use of buildings and premises, which
ordinance shall be submitted to the Council for its consideration and possible
adoption.
      (4)   Subdivision regulations. The Board may prepare subdivision
regulations governing the subdivision of land within the town and its environs,
to be submitted to the Council for its consideration and possible adoption.
      (5)   Powers of review. The Board shall review and make recommendations
to the Council upon the extent, location and design of all public structures
and facilities; the acquisition and disposal of public properties; the opening,
abandonment, widening, extension, narrowing or other change to streets and
other public ways; the construction, extension, expansion or abandonment of
utilities, whether publicly or privately owned; and upon all zoning and
subdivision matters. However, in the absence of a recommendation from the
Board, after the expiration of 30 days from the date on which the question has
been submitted in writing to the Board, the Council may, if it deems wise, take
final action.
(Prior Code, § 32.034)
(Ord. passed 5-10-1951; Ord. passed - -1966; Ord. passed 11-11-1971)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160D-301
§ 31.38 RECREATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created a commission to be known as the
“Recreation Commission” of the town, in accordance with G.S. § 160A-354.
(Prior Code, § 32.050)
   (B)   Members, terms and vacancies.
      (1)   The Recreation Commission shall be composed of nine members to be
appointed by the Council.
      (2)   Members appointed shall serve for a term of four years and until
their successors are appointed and qualified.
      (3)   Vacancies in the Recreation Commission shall be filled for the
unexpired term by the Council. The members of the Recreation Commission shall
serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 32.051)
   (C)   Officers, rules and meetings.
      (1)   The Recreation Commission shall appoint from its membership a
Chairperson and such other officers as it may deem necessary for the orderly
procedure of its business.
      (2)   It may adopt bylaws, rules and regulations covering its procedure
not inconsistent with the provisions of state law.
      (3)   The Recreation Commission shall, from time to time, make rules and
regulations governing the operation and conduct of the recreational facilities
operated by town employees.
      (4)   The Recreation Commission shall hold regular meetings at such
places and times as it may designate.
(Prior Code, § 32.052)
   (D)   Entering into contract or binding obligation. The Recreation
Commission shall have no authority to enter into any contract or incur any
obligation binding upon the town other than current obligations or contracts to
be fully executed within the then current fiscal year and all within the budget
appropriations made by the Council of the town.
(Prior Code, § 32.055)
(Ord. passed 5-8-1975; Ord. 76-7, passed 9-9-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Parks and recreation, see G.S. §§ 160A-350 et seq.
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-354
§ 31.39 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The town confirms the agency’s (Fire Department) relationship with the town.
(Prior Code, § 32.070) (Res. passed 12-11-2003)
§ 31.40 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. The police officers of the town are hereby authorized to
make arrests, serve warrants and otherwise exercise the powers of police
officers within the town and within all that area within one-and-one half miles
of the corporate limits of the town, and on all property owned by or leased by
the town wherever located.
   (B)   Composition of department. The Police Department shall consist of a
Chief of Police, police officers (of designated grade), and administrative
staff.
   (C)   Specific duties of the Police Chief.
      (1)   The Police Chief commands the force under their order, and subject
to the Town Manager, is responsible for its hiring, discipline and efficiency.
      (2)   Additional, specific functions of the Chief of Police are:
         (a)   To issue to the force under their command such orders and
directives as may be necessary to preserve the public peace, prevent crime,
arrest offenders, and to protect public and private property and persons in the
town;
         (b)   To enforce the laws, ordinances, police regulations, and
executive orders applicable to their jurisdiction;
         (c)   Perform such other lawful duties as shall be assigned by
ordinance or otherwise.
   (D)   Duties of police officers. It shall be the duty of police officers to:
      (1)   Preserve public peace, prevent crimes, detect and arrest offenders.
      (2)   Protect the rights of persons and property.
      (3)   Regulate the movements of vehicles in the highways, streets,
bridges, parks and public areas.
      (4)   Observe and inspect all places of public amusement, all places of
business having a license to carry on such businesses and to detect and deter
all unlawful and disorderly conduct or practices therein.
      (5)   Enforce penalties for the violation of laws and ordinances in the
town.
      (6)   Report to the Chief of Police any repairs needed to any public
property.
      (7)   Serve all processes issued to them.
      (8)   Perform as many duties as may be assigned to them by the Chief of
Police.
   (E)   Auxiliary law enforcement. Auxiliary law enforcement personnel shall
be entitled to benefits under the State Workers' Compensation Act, being G.S.
§§ 97-1 et seq. while conducting their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 32.085) (Ord. passed 12-11-2003; Ord. passed 6-12-2025)
§ 31.41 DEPOT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. Pursuant to G.S. § 63-53, there is hereby created the
Town Depot Commission, which shall be organized and have the duties and powers
hereinafter set out.
(Prior Code, § 32.100)
   (B)   Members; terms.
      (1)   The Depot Commission shall have 12 members, to be appointed by the
Town Council. In the initial appointment, the Town Council shall appoint five
members for the terms of three years and five members for terms of two years.
Thereafter, all appointments shall be for terms of three years.
      (2)   A member of the Depot Commission shall be designated by the Council
as Chairperson of the Depot Commission.
(Prior Code, § 32.101)
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Depot Commission shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To operate, maintain and regulate the town depot, subject to any
limitations set out in this section;
      (2)   To lease real or personal property either from or to private
individuals, subject to approval by resolution of the Town Council; and
      (3)   To develop plans and make recommendations to the Town Council for
the future use and development of the town depot.
(Prior Code, § 32.102)
(Ord. passed 5-10-2007)
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 63-53
§ 31.42 HISTORIC DISTRICT PROTECTION PROGRAM COMMITTEE.
   (A)   A Historic District Protection Program Advisory Committee shall be
created to make recommendations to the Council for revolving loan funding of
projects through evaluation of applications and to provide input on other
elements of the Historic District Protection Program.
   (B)   Members shall serve three-year terms of office with the exception of
initial appointments which shall be in staggered terms of two years and three
years.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2020)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
   
32.01   Ad valorem taxes
   
32.02   Discounts and interest on taxes
   
32.03   Partial payment of taxes
   
32.04   Disposition of property
§ 32.01 AD VALOREM TAXES.
   In order to raise a fund for the general expense incident to the proper
government of the town, the following taxes are hereby levied.
   (A)   On every $100 valuation of real estate within the corporate limits as
the same existed on January 1 and on every $100 of personal property owned by
persons residing in the town, a tax shall be imposed.
   (B)   For the payment of general operating expenses of the town, a tax in an
amount as established each year shall be imposed.
   (C)   For the payment of principal and interest of the bonded indebtedness
and for the retirement of the bonds, a tax shall be set as necessary.
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
Statutory reference:
   Property taxes, see G.S. § 160A-209
§ 32.02 DISCOUNTS AND INTEREST ON TAXES.
   (A)   All taxes levied by the town under the provision of the State
Machinery Act (G.S. §§ 105-271 et seq.) shall be due and payable on September 1
of the fiscal year for which they are levied.
   (B)   For the purposes of computing discounts and interest, tax payments
submitted by mail shall be deemed to be received as of the date shown on the
postmark affixed by the United States Postal Service. If no date is shown on
the postmark or if the postmark is not affixed by the United States Postal
Service, the tax payment shall be deemed to be received when the payment is
received in the office of the Town Tax Collector. In any dispute arising under
this section, the burden of proof shall be on the taxpayer to show that the
payment was timely made.
   (C)   All taxes prepaid during the month of August of the year they are
levied shall be entitled to a 1% discount.
   (D)   After September 1 and on or before January 5 next after the tax is due
and payable, the tax shall be paid at par or face value.
   (E)   On or after January 6 following the due date and before February 1
thereafter, there shall be added to the taxes at the rate of 2%.
   (F)   On or after February 1 following the due date, there shall be added to
the taxes, in addition to the 2% provided for in division (C) above, interest
at the rate of 0.75% per month or fraction thereof until the taxes, plus
penalties and interest, have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 35.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 105-271 et seq.
§ 32.03 PARTIAL PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   Any taxpayer may make a partial payment on the total ad valorem tax charged
against his or her property and thereafter be relieved of penalties or interest
to the extent of the payment.
(Prior Code, § 35.03)
§ 32.04 DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Authority. The Town Manager is hereby authorized, pursuant to G.S. §
160A-266(c), to dispose of any surplus personal property owned by the town,
whenever he or she determines, in his or her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$15,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   Sale methods. The Town Manager may dispose of any such surplus
personal property by any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to
yield the highest attainable sale price in money or other consideration,
including, but not limited to, the methods of sale provided in G.S. § 160A-266.
The sale may be public or private and with or without notice and minimum
waiting period.
   (C)   Offers. The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders
the highest offer or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town
if greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the Town Manager is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers
are received within a reasonable time, the Town Manager may retain the
property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value or cause it to be
disposed of as waste material. Nor surplus property may be donated to any
individual or organization, except by resolution of the Council.
   (D)   Annual report. The Town Manager shall, on or before February 1,
report, in writing, to the Council on any property disposed of under these
provisions from July 1 through December 31 of the previous year and shall, on
or before August 1, report, in writing, to the Council on any property disposed
of under these provisions from January 1 through June 30 of that year. The
written report shall generally describe the property sold or exchanged, to whom
it was sold or with whom exchanged, and the amount of money or other
consideration received for each sale or exchange since the last report was
submitted.
(Ord. passed 10-10-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 160A-266 and 160A-266(c)
CHAPTER 33: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
33.01   State of emergency; curfew authorized
   
33.02   Blackout procedures
§ 33.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY; CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town
or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is authorized
and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the
existence of such a state of emergency and, in order to more effectively
protect the lives and property of people within the town, to place in effect
any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized and empowered to limit by the proclamation the
application of all or any part of restrictions to any area specifically
designated or described within the corporate limits of the town and to specific
hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of the
restrictions law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees,
doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty
military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public
utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper, magazine, radio
broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and
such other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public
order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs
of the people within the town.
   (D)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of a state of emergency or all or any
part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the Council.
   (E)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose, by proclamation, any or all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession of explosives, firearms,
ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind off one’s own premises and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind and their possession or consumption off
one’s own premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley or
roadway or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or some member thereof; and
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and any other places of public assembly.
   (F)   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any
particular during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency
by the issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
   (G)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. passed 4-11-1968)
§ 33.02 BLACKOUT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized and directed whenever a state of war exists
between the United States of America and any foreign country or nation to
proclaim and publish rules and regulations which shall have full force and
effect of law of the conduct and cooperation of persons, firms, corporations
and agencies. The rules and regulations may include black out, light up or
lighting distribution rearrangement, including the intensity and distribution
of all street, residential, commercial and other lighting. The rules and
regulations may further include those protecting fire, police, health, highways
and the general protection of the public and may require drills and practice
exercises. The Mayor may require any inhabitant or any organization of the town
to aid in enforcing rules and regulations, and the services of non-residents
may be accepted as voluntary help in the discretion of the Mayor. The Mayor may
also request assistance from organizations such as the County Defense Council,
the Red Cross, the State Guard, the Highway Patrol and other state and national
organizations.
   (B)   The Mayor may appoint or recommend for appointment by the Regional
Defense Council a Coordinator of Volunteer Emergency Service. The Coordinator
shall direct the preparation and execution of disaster plans and volunteer
emergency services in cooperation with the regional and state defense councils
and, if the authority is so delegated by the Mayor, the name of the head of
this organization shall be the Air Raid Warden for the town. The Air Raid
Warden shall have full power and authority to appoint and select deputy air
raid wardens as are qualified under division (A) above.
   (C)   Special lighting of an emergency nature, such as black out, light up,
lighting distribution rearrangement or change in general lighting intensity,
shall be placed in effect on receipt of an order that the action is necessary
or desirable from the Governor of the state of the District Warning Center or
other legally constituted proper authority to the Mayor or the Air Raid Warden
or any designated Deputy Air Raid Warden, Coordinator of Volunteer Emergency
Service and Chief Control Officer.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to refuse or neglect to obey any of the rules and
regulations as proclaimed by the Mayor or to refuse or neglect to obey any
order of the Mayor in connection therewith or any order made on any person,
firm, corporation and agency for aid in enforcing the same.
   (E)   This section shall constitute an exercise by the town of its
government functions for the protection of the public peace, health and safety
and neither the town or any person, firm, corporation or company responding to
the regulations lawfully proclaimed and published by the Mayor or called upon
to assist in enforcing the same, shall be involved in a suit in damages in
connection with the same.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
TITLE V: PUBLIC SERVICES
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Purpose, policy and objectives
   
50.002   Definitions and abbreviations
   
50.003   National, state and local requirements
   
50.004   Right of revision
   
50.005   Special agreement
   
50.006   Altering or disturbing sanitary sewer system
   
50.007   Damaging, obstructing system
   
50.008   Pump station specifications
Connection and Usage
   
50.020   Connection to, use of public sewer system required
   
50.021   Public sewer services unavailable; private disposal systems
   
50.022   Building sewers and connections
   
50.023   Separate connection required
   
50.024   Outside connections
   
50.025   Maintenance, repair of connections
Discharge Standards
   
50.040   General prohibitions
   
50.041   Specific prohibitions
   
50.042   Storage of prohibited wastes
   
50.043   Interference and pass through by prohibited discharges
   
50.044   Dilution
   
50.045   Accidental and/or slug load discharges
   
50.046   Hauled wastewater
   
50.047   Hazardous waste discharge
Pretreatment Standards
   
50.060   Pretreatment facilities
   
50.061   Facilities for flow equalization
   
50.062   Facilities for equalization of pollutant concentration
   
50.063   Interceptors, separators and traps
   
50.064   Authority to direct and restrict
   
50.065   Detection of combustible gas
Fees
   
50.080   Purpose
   
50.081   User charges
   
50.082   Surcharges
   
50.083   Pretreatment program administration charges
Permits and Agreements
   
50.095   Permission for discharges required
   
50.096   Permit determination
   
50.097   Violation of permits or agreements
   
50.098   Significant industrial user wastewater permits
   
50.099   Permit conditions
   
50.100   Local non-significant industrial users
   
50.101   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Administration
   
50.115   Authority to cut off service
   
50.116   Inspection
   
50.117   Police to aid in enforcement
   
50.118   Confidential information
   
50.119   Enforcement
   
50.120   Appeals
   
50.121   Available remedies
   
50.122   Annual publication of significant non-compliance
   
50.123   Defenses to discharge violations
Reporting Requirements
   
50.135   Baseline monitoring reports
   
50.136   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
50.137   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
50.138   Periodic compliance reports
   
50.139   Reports of changed conditions
   
50.140   Reports of potential problems
   
50.141   Reports from users
   
50.142   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting
   
50.143   Analytical requirements; sample collection
   
50.144   Timing; record keeping; electronic reporting
   
50.145   Special reporting requirements for industrial users in satellite POTWs
   
50.146   Compliance monitoring
 
   
50.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 50.001 PURPOSE, POLICY AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to set forth uniform
requirements for direct and indirect contributors into the wastewater
collection and treatment system for the town; to enable the town to comply with
all applicable state and federal laws now in effect or hereinafter adopted or
amended as required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and general pretreatment
regulations 40 C.F.R. part 403; to provide for the regulation of direct and
indirect contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance
of permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for all other users; and to authorize monitoring and enforcement
activities; to require user reporting and provide for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein. This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-312 and/or 153A-275. The town shall
designate an administrator of the publicly owned treatment works or POTW and
pretreatment program hereafter referred to as the POTW Director. Any powers
granted to or imposed upon the POTW Director may be delegated by the POTW
Director to other town personnel.
   (B)   Applicability; authority of POTW Director. This chapter shall apply to
all persons within the town and to persons and entities outside the town, who
are, by permit, agreement or otherwise, users of the town’s POTW, as defined in
G.S. § 14-202(a)55. Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director
shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any
powers granted to or imposed upon the POTW Director may be delegated by the
POTW Director to other town personnel. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to
adopt such other written rules and policies which are consistent with this
chapter in order to implement and enforce the provisions hereof. By discharging
wastewater into the municipal wastewater system, all users located beyond the
town limits agree to comply with the terms and conditions established in this
chapter as well as any permits or orders issued hereunder. This includes all
industrial and/or domestic sewage users discharging or hauling and depositing
sewage in the wastewater collection system owned by any satellite POTW.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   It is the policy of the town that the discharge of pollutants into
the wastewater collection and treatment system is not a matter of right, but is
a privilege which may be withdrawn by means consistent with the provisions of
this chapter or with any permit or interlocal agreement issued pursuant hereto
or both in order to protect its citizens, the environment and its wastewater
collection and treatment system. Any user who is unwilling or unable to comply
with the provisions contained herein will not be permitted to make or maintain
a connection to or deposit sewage for treatment by the town the wastewater
treatment system of the town.
      (2)   Also, recognizing that the scientific and technical expertise
involved in demonstrating the burden of proof in matters concerning significant
industrial users is substantially greater and more complex as compared to that
of other wastewater permittees or users, the Town Council deems it to be in the
best interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide an
adjudicatory hearing process for significant industrial users which provides
sufficient time to collect and analyze data necessary for contested case
hearings. Also, a more expeditious administrative appeals process is provided
for permittees or users in the interests of safety, efficiency and economy
while still preserving such persons’ due process rights to notice and an
opportunity to be heard before a final determination of his, her or their
rights.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the wastewater system of the municipality which will interfere with the
efficient and economic operation of the system or contaminate the resulting
sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible
with the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to dispose of and utilize sludge from
the system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may come into contact with
sewage, sludge and effluent in the course of their employment as well as
protecting the general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the town complies with its NPDES or non-discharge
permit conditions, sludge use disposal requirements and any other federal or
state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 14-202(a)55, 160A-312 and 153A-275
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      AMMONIA NITROGEN. A component of the nitrogen cycle produced largely by
deamination of organic nitrogen containing compounds and by hydrolysis of urea.
Content can be determined potentiometrically by use of a hydrophilic gas
permeable membrane under standard laboratory procedure.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Resources of
the state’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his or her
designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, the term AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
            1.   The president, secretary or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility, including
having the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations and initiate and direct comprehensive measures to assure long-
term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director, mayor, town
manager, department head or highest official appointed or designated to oversee
the operation and performance of the activities of the government facility or
their designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) through (c) above may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization signed by an officer of the company, other entity or
government is submitted to the town.
         (e)   If the designation of an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to the POTW Director prior to or together with
any reports to be signed by an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
      AUTOMOTIVE ESTABLISHMENT. A business that discharges process wastewater
to the sanitary sewer system and that services, repairs and/or washes vehicles,
including, but not limited to: automotive repair shops, car dealerships, car
washes and any other facility that, in the POTW Director’s opinion, requires an
oil/grit separator by virtue of its operation.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C usually expressed as a concentration (milligrams per liter
(mg/l)).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measure of the oxygen equivalent of the
organic matter content of a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong
chemical oxidant under standard laboratory procedure.
      COLOR. Any deviation from clear liquid due to substances in solution or
due to suspended matter or both.
      COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A sample consisting of grab samples collected at equal
intervals and combined proportionally to flow or a sample continuously
collected proportionally to flow or a sample of equal volumes taken at equal
time intervals.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the POTW organization, if the POTW
organization’s pretreatment program approval has not been withdrawn.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
      EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation
of which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical
standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard is
thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act.
      FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT (FSE). A separate non-residential or other
commercial kitchen or place where food and/or beverages are prepared and/or
served for consumption regardless of whether consumption is on or off the
premises and regardless of whether or not there is a charge for the food or
beverage, including, but not limited to, restaurants, childcare centers,
churches, assisted living facilities, schools, bakeries, coffee shops, grocery
stores, cafeterias churches and any other facility that, in the POTW Director’s
opinion, require a grease interceptor installation by virtue of its operation.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      GREASE INTERCEPTOR. A passive device, as defined by the most recent
version of the state’s Plumbing Code and located underground and outside of a
food service facility designed to collect, contain or remove food wastes and
grease from the waste stream while allowing the balance of the liquid to
discharge to the collection system by gravity.
      GREASE TRAP. A passive device, as defined by the most recent version of
the state’s Plumbing Code and located in a food service facility or under a
sink designed to collect, contain or remove food wastes and grease from the
waste stream while allowing the balance of the liquid to discharge to the
collection system by gravity.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks including, but not
limited to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction from
any non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
      INTERCEPTOR. A device designed and installed to separate and retain for
removal, by automatic or manual means, deleterious, hazardous or undesirable
matter from normal wastes, while permitting normal sewage or wastes to
discharge into the drainage system by gravity.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW collection system,
treatment processes, operations or its sludge process, use or disposal, which
causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the control
authority (and/or POTWs, if different from the control authority) NPDES
collection system or non-discharge permit or prevents sewage sludge use or
disposal in compliance with specified applicable state and federal statutes,
regulations or permits. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or
any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act being 42
U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act being 15 U.S.C. §§
2601 et seq., the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) being 16
U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq. or more stringent state
criteria (including those contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or
use employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users and which appears in 40 C.F.R. Chapter
1, Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471.
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342) or pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
      NEW SOURCE. As defined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(m), including any subsequent
amendments and additions.
      NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product
or finished product.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the state pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1(d) for a waste which is not discharged directly to surface waters of
the state or for a wastewater treatment works which does not discharge directly
to surface waters of the state.
      NON-DOMESTIC SOURCES. Any sources that discharge any substances other
than human excrement and household gray water (shower, dish washing operation
and the like). NON-DOMESTIC SOURCES discharge pollutants which include the
characteristics of the wastewater (such as including, but not limited to, pH,
temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity and odor).
      OIL AND GREASE. Fats, oils and grease of animal or vegetable origin;
petroleum oil, cutting oil or products of mineral origin, whether emulsified or
not, whether solidified or viscous. For analytical purposes, OIL AND GREASE is
defined as any material recovered under standard NCDENR certified laboratory
procedure or as determined under such standard laboratory procedures as may be
hereinafter adopted.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation or increases the magnitude or duration of a
violation, of the control authority’s (and/or POTW’s, if different from the
control authority) NPDES collection system or non-discharge permit or a
downstream water quality standard, even if not included in the permit.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, state, federal or
local government entities or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any waste, as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and dredged spoil,
solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials,
heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial,
municipal and agricultural waste, and certain characteristics of wastewater
including, but not limited to, pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, metals,
BOD, COD, toxicity or odor.
      POTW DIRECTOR. The Public Service Director or the town employee
designated with the responsibility for the pretreatment program and enforcement
of this chapter.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the town’s POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollutants into a POTW collection system and/or treatment
plant. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes or process changes or other means, except by diluting the
concentration of the pollutants, unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment
standard.
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 and approved by the approval
authority as authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards and local limits.
      PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw
material, intermediate product, finished product, byproduct or waste product.
      PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances,
these prohibitions appear in §§
50.040 through
50.043 of this chapter and are developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the
Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned in this instance by the town.
This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial
wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances
which convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant. For the purposes of this
chapter, POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW
from persons outside the town who are, by contract, agreement or in any other
way with the town, users of the town’s POTW.
      SEPARATOR. A device designed to separate oils or other items from normal
waste for proper disposal, rendering or recycling. The separated material is
not retained within the unit but is siphoned off or discharged to a container
for storage and disposal, thus maintaining the efficiency of the device.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU.
         (a)   An industrial user that discharges wastewater into a publicly
owned treatment works or collection system and that:
            1.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewaters);
            2.   Contributes process wastewater which makes up 5% or more of
the NPDES or non-discharge permitted flow limit or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant. In this context, organic capacity refers to BOD, TSS and
ammonia;
            3.   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40
C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471; or
            4.   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis
that the industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the
POTW’s operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement or
for contributing to violations of the POTW’s effluent limitations and
conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit or for contributing to
violations of the POTW’s receiving stream standard or for limiting the POTW’s
sludge disposal options.
         (b)   Subject to the state’s Department of Environment and Natural
Resources, Division of Water Resources, approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b),
the control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the
criteria in divisions (a)(1) and (a)(2) above has no reasonable potential for
adversely affecting the POTWs operation or for violating any pretreatment
standards or requirement or for contributing to violations of the POTWs
effluent limitations and conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit or for
contributing to violations of the POTWs receiving stream standard or for
limiting the POTWs sludge disposal options and thus is not a significant
industrial user.
         (c)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (a)(3) above meets the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(v)(2) and
thus is a non-significant categorical industrial user.
         (d)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (a)(3) above meets the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(3) and
thus is a middle tier significant industrial user. Sampling and inspection
requirements may be cut in half as per 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.8(f)(2)(v)(C) and
403.12(e)(3).
         (e)   For the purposes of this chapter, the term SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL USER shall also include any user that transmits a combination of
industrial waste and domestic waste for treatment by the POTW.
      SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE or SNC. The status of non-compliance of a
significant industrial user when one or more of the following criteria are met.
Additionally, any industrial user which meets the criteria in divisions (c),
(d) or (h) below shall also be SNC.
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a six-month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1);
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) multiplied by the applicable TRC; (TRC=1.4 for BOD,
TSS, fats, oil and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants (except flow and
pH));
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1), (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit or narrative standard) that the control authority and/or
POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has
resulted in either the control authority’s or the POTW’s, if different from the
control authority, exercise of its emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. § 403.8
(f)(1)(vi)(B) and §
50.119(E) of this chapter to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in local
either this chapter, an interlocal agreement, or a pretreatment permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the schedule date;
         (f)   Failure to provide reports and permitting information for new
sills intending to connect, reconnect or contribute wastewater to the system,
compliance schedule, self-monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day
compliance reports, periodic compliance reports and permitting information, as
outlined in §
50.095 of this chapter, within 45 days from the due date;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; or
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority and/or POTW determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the local pretreatment program.
      SLUG LOAD OR DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through or in
any other way violates the POTW’s regulations, local limits or industrial user
permit conditions. This can include, but is not limited to, spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards in §§
50.040 and
50.043 of this chapter.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      TOTAL KJELDAHL NITROGEN (TKN). The sum of nitrogen in the form of ammonia
and organic compounds as analytically determined under standard laboratory
procedure. The term refers to the lab technique used in the determination.
      TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended matter that floats on
the surface of or is suspended in water, wastewater or other liquids and which
is removable by laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary non- compliance with pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include non-compliance to
the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment
facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or
careless or improper operation.
      USER. Any person, individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, state, federal or
local government entities or other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents, or assigns who contributes, causes or permits the
contribution of wastewater into the town’s POTW, including those who contribute
such wastes from mobile sources.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any ground water, surface
water and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §§
50.095 through
50.101 of this chapter.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds, tidal
estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through or border upon the state
or any portion thereof.
   (B)   Abbreviations. The following abbreviations shall have the designated
meanings.
BOD        Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R.     Code of Federal Regulations
COD        Chemical oxygen demand
EPA        Environmental Protection Agency
Gpd        Gallons per day
G.S.       North Carolina General Statutes
L          Liter
mg         Milligrams
mg/l       Milligrams per liter
NH3-N      Ammonia nitrogen
NCDENR/DWR North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources/
           Division of Water Quality
NPDES      National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
O&M        Operation and maintenance
POTW       Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA       Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC        Standard industrial classification
SWDA       Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
TKN        Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS        Total suspended solids
U.S.C.     United States Code
 
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 143-213(18), 143-215.1, 143-215.1(d) and
143-215.3(a)(14)
§ 50.003 NATIONAL, STATE AND LOCAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   National categorical pretreatment standards. Industrial users subject
to categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply with applicable
standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N, parts 405 through
471, and incorporated herein.
      (1)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in
terms of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
POTW Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
      (2)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed prior to treatment with wastewater not regulated by the same standard,
the POTW Director may impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream
formula in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
      (3)   An industrial user may obtain a variance from a categorical
pretreatment standard if the industrial user can prove, pursuant to the
procedural and substantive provisions in 40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors
relating to its discharge are fundamentally different from the factors
considered by EPA when developing the categorical pretreatment standard.
      (4)   An industrial user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a
categorical standard in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
      (5)   An industrial user may request a removal credit adjustment to a
categorical standard in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.7.
   (B)   Local limits.
      (1)   A wastewater survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing more than the following discharge limits.
Arsenic                0.003 mg/l
BOD                    250.00 mg/l
Cadmium                0.003 mg/l
COD                    750.00 mg/l
Copper                 0.061 mg/l
Cyanide                0.015 mg/l
Lead                   0.049 mg/l
Mercury                0.0002 mg/l
NH3-N                  25.00 mg/l
Nickel                 0.021 mg/l
Oil and grease (total) 100.00 mg/l
Silver                 0.005 mg/l
TKN                    40.00 mg/l
Total chromium         0.05 mg/l
Total phosphorus       8.00 mg/l
TSS                    250.00 mg/l
Zinc                   0.175 mg/l
 
      (2)   (a)   The survey information will be used to develop user-specific
local limits in order to ensure that the prescribed local limits are not
exceeded.
         (b)   User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern
shall be included in any wastewater permit issued by the town.
         (c)   The POTW Director may impose mass-based limits in addition to or
in place of concentration-based limits.
      (3)   If the discharge of a user contains any one of the pollutants
listed in this section in excess of the concentrations set forth, the user
shall provide this information to the POTW Director and request a determination
of user status pursuant to §
50.096 of this chapter.
      (4)   Surcharges of any pollutant in the above list shall be charged to
the user per the fee schedule adopted in the budget. See fee schedule for the
dollar amount.
   (C)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements
and limitations or those in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.004 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town may, at any time it deems appropriate, modify, amend, change or
establish limitations and requirements which are more stringent than those
required by either state or federal regulations when it considers such
limitations and requirements necessary to comply with the policies, purposes
and objectives presented in this chapter or the general and specific
prohibitions in §§
50.040 through
50.043 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.005 SPECIAL AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The town has or may enter into special agreements with industrial
users setting out special terms under which they may discharge to the POTW.
   (B)   Only in unusual circumstances will a special agreement waive
compliance with a pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (C)   However, an industrial user may request a net gross adjustment to a
categorical standard in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.006 ALTERING OR DISTURBING SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to uncover, make any
connection with, open into, alter or disturb the sanitary sewer system or any
appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the POTW
Director or the satellite town which is in another town or county.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.007 DAMAGING, OBSTRUCTING SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, tamper with or
otherwise do harm to the mains, pipes, manholes, apparatus or other parts of
the sanitary sewer system or to place or cause to be placed any object of any
nature whatsoever into the system that blocks, obstructs or impedes the normal
flow in the sewer system.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any equipment or
materials belonging to the town used for the purpose of making tests or
examinations and left upon the premises of a person discharging wastes into the
sewers.
(Prior Code, § 50.003) (Ord. passed 4-12-1984) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.008 PUMP STATION SPECIFICATIONS.
   Pump stations must be built out with a SCADA system that has the ability to
communicate with the town’s system.
(Prior Code, § 50.090) (Ord. passed 9-10-2009)
**** CONNECTION AND USAGE ****
§ 50.020 CONNECTION TO, USE OF PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of that town any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of that town any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and with regulations of
the Division of Environmental Management, Department of Natural Resources, and
Community Development of the state. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (C)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town, is hereby
required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein
and to connect those facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided that, the public sewer is within 150 feet of
the property line.
(Prior Code, § 50.020) (Ord. passed 4-12-1984) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.021 PUBLIC SEWER SERVICES UNAVAILABLE; PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with
applicable state standards. Before commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain written approval of
the state acting through the county’s Health Department. The type, capacities,
location and layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with
all recommendations of the Department of Public Health and Division of
Environmental Management of the state. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet. The owner shall operate and
maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all
times, at no expense to the town.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer within 60 days. Under unusual or special circumstances, the
local government may extend the time of compliance or waive this provision.
(Prior Code, § 50.021) (Ord. passed 4-12-1984) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.022 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to deposit or discharge or who is now depositing
or discharging any domestic, commercial or industrial waste into the sanitary
sewers shall make application for the disposal of industrial, commercial or
domestic waste to the town and the approving authority shall approve the
application only when evidence is submitted by the applicant that the discharge
into the sanitary sewer will comply with all of the regulations of this
chapter.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall make any connection to the
sanitary sewer system unless and until a permit therefor has been issued by the
town. Permits shall be issued for connections only after the town or approving
authority has determined the type of connection required, the type of waste to
be placed in the system and, if required by the town, an approved plumbing
system within the dwelling, building or structure desiring connection.
   (C)   All connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be made by
authorized employees of the town in accordance with specifications for the
connections that may be adopted by the town from time to time. If authorized by
the Council, connection may be made by plumbers licensed to perform plumbing
work in the town. All construction shall be in conformity with the State
Plumbing and Building Codes, as amended. Any sewer connection made by an
authorized licensed plumber shall be inspected by the approving authority after
the work has been completed and prior to the time the connection is covered.
   (D)   No person shall make connection or roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of infiltration/inflow to a building sewer or
building drain which, in turn, is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer.
   (E)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the local government.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to keep and
maintain the building sewer connected to the public sewer in good repair. The
owner shall be responsible for making necessary repairs, at his or her own
expense, to the building sewer when notified, in writing, by the town that
repairs are necessary. Should the owner fail to repair the building sewer
within 60 days after receiving written notification by the town, the town may
make the necessary repairs to the building sewer and shall assess the owner for
the cost of the repairs.
   (G)   The town’s sewer collection system is primarily designed, permitted
and operated using gravity sewer. All new town customers are to be served by
gravity sewer, unless the circumstance described below make gravity sewer
impractical and not in the town’s best interest. The minimum diameter gravity
sewer main allowed in the town’s system is eight inches. All lots shall be
served by a four-inch diameter or larger individual gravity sewer service and
clean-out unless otherwise allowed, as follows.
   (H)   New single-family residential structures may be located where
topography or access prevents a gravity service from the structure to the
gravity main. In these circumstances, an individual residential pump unit
permitted under the building code may be installed to convey the sewage from
the residence to the town’s gravity sewer system. The grinder unit shall be
privately-owned and operated and meet the following conditions:
      (1)   Designed, permitted and installed in accordance with town technical
standards;
      (2)   The residential customer is responsible for the cost of
electricity, maintenance and repairs to the grinder pump unit; and
      (3)   The grinder pump units shall be annually inspected by a third-party
licensed plumber.
   (I)   Existing single-family homes originally constructed and served by
gravity sewer connections may be converted to a grinder pump service to
alleviate systemic problem, to prevent sewer backups or restricted sewer flows.
If the gravity system connecting the single-family home to the town’s system
was designed and installed to meet building codes, but changes in conditions to
the system are creating back pressure or flow problems, the town will provide
and maintain grinder pump connections.
      (1)   Any grinder pump units owned and operated by the town shall have
easements recorded at the Register of Deeds that allows access for operation,
maintenance and replacement of all town-owned infrastructure as a condition of
the grinder pump placement.
      (2)   The residential customer is responsible for the cost of electricity
and shall allow such connection as a condition of the grinder pump placement.
      (3)   For any pre-existing grinder pumps that fall into this category,
upon their failure or need for replacement of repairs, the town, at its
discretion, will repair or replace the grinder pump and at that point require
the creation of an easement for the grinder pump to become town-maintained
facility sewer connections, floor drains, grease removal equipment, sinks,
restrooms and the like. Blueprints are acceptable; a “to scale”, hand-drawn
copy may be acceptable in some cases.
(Prior Code, § 50.022) (Ord. passed 4-12-1984; Ord. passed 11-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
50.999
§ 50.023 SEPARATE CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Each separate dwelling, structure, business or other building shall have a
separate connection to the system; provided, however, apartments or other
multi-use or occupancy buildings may have one combined connection within the
discretion of the approving authority.
(Prior Code, § 50.023) (Ord. passed 4-12-1984) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.024 OUTSIDE CONNECTIONS.
   Any person owning or controlling premises beyond the corporate limits of the
town and desiring to install a plumbing system for the purpose of discharging
domestic or industrial waste into the sanitary sewers of the town may do so by
complying with the requirements of the town. It shall be the responsibility of
the property owner and shall be done under the general supervision of the
Public Works Director of the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.024) (Ord. passed 4-12-1984) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.025 MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OF CONNECTIONS.
   Whenever any service to any building or premises becomes clogged, broken,
out of order or in any condition detrimental to the use of the sewer service,
the owner, agent or occupant having charge of that building or premises shall
be held responsible for the immediate renewal or repair of the sewer service
necessary to maintain an uninterrupted sanitary disposal system. Renewal or
repair of sewer service from the main to the property line shall be made at the
expense of the town. Authorized personnel only shall be allowed to perform the
work. Renewal or repair of sewer service from the property line to source of
discharge shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 50.025) (Ord. passed 4-12-1984) Penalty, see §
50.999
**** DISCHARGE STANDARDS ****
§ 50.040 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed into the POTW, directly
or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which exceeds the local limits
contained in any interlocal agreement or this chapter or any pollutant or
wastewater which causes interference or pass through. This prohibition applies
to all users of the POTW, whether the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.041 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed into the POTW the
following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
   (A)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction of
the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids greater
than one-half inch in any dimension;
   (C)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
   (D)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 9.0 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to the POTW, its personnel or equipment. The POTW Director may authorize
exceeding these limits via permit, consent order or administrative order. In no
case, however, shall a pH less than 5.0 or greater than 11.0 be discharged to
the POTW;
   (E)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like) or any toxic substances or any other materials
(including, but not limited to, heavy metals or chemicals) in sufficient
quantity (flow or concentration), either singly or by interaction with other
pollutants, to cause interference with the POTW;
   (F)   Any wastewater which has a temperature of greater than 150°F (66°C) or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
   (G)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause worker health and safety
problems;
   (H)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
50.046 of this chapter;
   (I)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
   (J)   Any substance which may cause the POTWs effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean
Air Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act being
15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or state criteria applicable to the sludge management
method being used;
   (K)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability offish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for any
designated uses;
   (L)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes, except
as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
   (M)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, de-ionized
water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director or provided for in an interlocal
agreement with another town, county or contract user;
   (N)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in excess of 100
mg/l at any time, except as specifically authorized by the POTW Director in a
wastewater permit;
   (O)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
   (P)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
   (Q)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
   (R)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste, according to
40 C.F.R. part 261, if not disposed of in a sewer, except as may be
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
   (S)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate state
water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B.0200;
   (T)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
   (U)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
   (V)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system;
   (W)   At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter,
at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the system) be
more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL)
of the meter;
   (X)   Any volatile organics, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater permit;
   (Y)   Any process wastewater discharged by a permitted user which does not
pass through the user’s wastewater treatment facility and/or through the
sampling point designated in the user’s permit;
   (Z)   Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge unless prior
approval is obtained from the POTW Director; and
   (AA)   Any wastewater that requires excessive quantities of chlorine for
stabilization in addition to biological treatment. The amount of excess demand
will be determined by comparing the chlorine demand of the waste in question
with the average chlorine demand of all other wastes entering the plant.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.042 STORAGE OF PROHIBITED WASTES.
   Wastes prohibited herein shall not be processed or stored in such a manner
that these wastes could be discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All
floor drains located in process or materials storage areas must discharge to
the industrial user’s pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.043 INTERFERENCE AND PASS THROUGH BY PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   When the POTW Director determines that a user(s) is contributing to the POTW
any of the above-enumerated substances in such amounts which may cause or
contribute to an interference or pass through, the POTW Director shall:
   (A)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on the
POTW in accordance with §§
50.119 through
50.121 and
50.999 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
50.095 through
50.101 of this chapter for such user to protect the POTW from interference or
pass through.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.044 DILUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for a user to increase the use of process water or, in
any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
national categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.045 ACCIDENTAL AND/OR SLUG LOAD DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each person shall provide protection from accidental and/or slug load
discharges of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental and/or slug load discharges of
prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at user’s sole cost and
expense. The POTW Director shall evaluate whether each person’s significant
industrial customer needs a plan or other action to control and prevent slug
discharges and accidental discharges, as defined in the state statutes. All
SIUs must be evaluated and a report of such evaluation be provided by the
POTW’s satellite town within one year of being designated or evaluated as a SIU
by the satellite town. The POTW Director may require any user to develop,
submit for approval, and implement such a plan or other specific action.
Alternatively, the POTW Director may develop such a specific plan for any user
and require its adoption by the user.
   (B)   All SIUs and other town or county users are required to notify the
POTW immediately of any changes at its facility or users affecting the
potential for spills and other accidental discharge, discharge of a non-
routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge or a slug load. Also,
see §§
50.139 and
50.140 of this chapter.
   (C)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental or
slug discharge, as required by this chapter; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impacts from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations. Control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants (including solvents) and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.046 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Permits regarding holding tank waste. It shall be unlawful for any
person to haul and discharge any waste, including holding tank waste, whether
directly to the POTW facility or to the any satellite towns collection
facilities without first obtaining a permit from the POTW Director or the
satellite town’s director. The POTW Director may require wastewater permits of
any generator of holding tank waste to be introduced into the POTW. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of holding tank waste into the POTW.
The discharge of holding tank waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Discharge of holding tank waste. Holding tank waste may be introduced
into the POTW only at locations designated by the POTW Director, and at such
times as are established by the POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate
this chapter or any other requirements established by the town. The POTW may
collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable
standards. The POTW Director may require the waste hauler to provide a waste
analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (C)   Waste tracking form required. Waste haulers must provide a waste
tracking form for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name
and address of the waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. When
the hauled waste is industrial, the form shall identify the type of industry,
known or suspected waste constituents and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous
wastes.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.047 HAZARDOUS WASTE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any an industrial user/satellite town to
discharge any hazardous waste as defined in 40 C.F.R. part 261 without first
having obtained permission or a special permit pursuant to §§
50.095 through
50.101 from the POTW Director before the discharge of such hazardous waste.
   (B)   Any user discharging hazardous waste shall comply with the following
provisions.
      (1)   Any an industrial user/satellite town who commences the discharge
of hazardous waste shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management
Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any
discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would
be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include
the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA
hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or
other). If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per
calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall contain the following
information to the extent such information is known and readily available to
the user: an identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes, an estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
waste stream discharge during the calendar month, and an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the waste stream expected to be
discharged during the following 12 months. All notifications must take place no
later than 180 days before the discharge commences. The user shall not begin
the discharge until receiving written approval from the town. Any notification
under this division (B)(1) need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste
discharge. However, notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under
§
50.139 of this chapter. The notification requirement in this section does not
apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
50.135,
50.137 and
50.139 of this chapter.
      (2)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (B)(1)
above, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms of non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month or of any quantity
of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW Director, the EPA
Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director and state hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective
date of such regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (5)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
hereunder or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
**** PRETREATMENT STANDARDS ****
§ 50.060 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Industrial users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply
with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §§
50.095 through
50.101 of this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all applicable
national categorical pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions
set out in this subchapter, within the time limitations specified by the POTW
Director, the EPA or the state, whichever is more stringent. All facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated and maintained at the
industrial user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the proposed pretreatment
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the town for review
and shall be submitted to and approved by the POTW Director before construction
of the facility. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or
method of operation shall be reported to the town and, if required, to the POTW
Director for approval prior to the industrial user’s initiation of the changes.
Neither the review nor the approval of such plans and operating procedures
shall relieve the industrial user from the responsibility of requiring
modification of the pretreatment facility as necessary to produce an effluent
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.061 FACILITIES FOR FLOW EQUALIZATION.
   To equalize flows and to avoid temporary overloads, the POTW Director may
require any person that discharges into the town’s POTW sanitary sewer system
to requires persons to construct and maintain on their property and at their
expense, in accordance with its adopted sewer use ordinance and all applicable
local, state and federal rules and regulations, suitable storage tanks or
equivalent flow control facilities. The control of the volume of discharges of
waste shall be by a waterworks type rate controller or equivalent device, the
setting and operations of which shall be subject to the direction of the POTW
Director. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow
equalization to the user.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.062 FACILITIES FOR EQUALIZATION OF POLLUTANT CONCENTRATION.
   Whenever the total volume of wastes to be discharged by any user in any one
day has considerable variation in pollution value, such user may be required to
construct, at its sole expense, holding or storage tanks in order to control
the discharge of wastes over a 24-hour period. The POTW Director may require
such tanks to be equipped to mix the waste thoroughly so that its quality will
be uniform when discharged into the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.063 INTERCEPTORS, SEPARATORS AND TRAPS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or separators shall be constructed
at a persons sole expense and to town specifications when, in the opinion of
the POTW Director, they are necessary for proper handling and control of
grease, oil, sand, grit, petroleum products or other substance. By way of
example, but not of limitation, such devices may be required for industrial or
commercial establishments, public eating places, hotels, hospitals, automobile
service centers, vehicle wash facilities or other institutions. Such devices
shall be located so as to be readily accessible for cleaning and inspection and
shall be maintained by the user at its sole expense in continuously efficient
operation, at all times.
   (B)   The size, type and location of interceptors, traps and separators
shall be selected in accordance with the most recent version of the Public
Works and Utilities Fats, Oil, Grease and Grit Pretreatment Device Requirements
and shall be approved, in writing, by the town or other town or county user’s
Public Works and Utilities Department prior to installation.
   (C)   The POTW Director or the other town or county inspections division may
direct the person to install a unit or to correct any unit that is not
installed appropriately or functioning properly.
   (D)   These vessels must have each chamber directly accessible from the
surface to provide a means for servicing, sampling and maintaining the
interceptor in working and operating condition. These chambers shall not be
visually obscured with parked vehicles, building structures, recycle
containers, refuse containers, pallets, trees, growing plants/shrubbery,
landscape tarps, plastic sheets, foreign objects, soil, mulch, floorings or
pavement of any substance.
   (E)   The POTW Director or other town or county inspections division may
order the repair, modification or replacement of a unit or may order the
addition of a grease recovery device in combination with a grease interceptor.
All food service and automotive establishments shall be subject to review,
evaluation and inspection by the aforementioned representatives during normal
working hours.
   (F)   Interceptors, traps and separators shall be serviced and emptied of
accumulated waste content at a frequency appropriate to maintain the efficiency
of the device. Accumulated solids must be removed at a frequency to maintain an
effective volume of the device. Servicing of interceptor’s traps, or separators
may be more frequent than, but not less frequent than, as required by permit or
ordinance. The owner, leaseholder or operator shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal of grease by appropriate means.
   (G)   Grease interceptors, traps and separators shall be kept free of grit,
rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags,
excessive food solids and the like which can reduce the effective volume of the
unit.
   (H)   If any wastewater is removed from a grease interceptor, treated, and
then reintroduced back into the interceptor, the user shall remain responsible
for not exceeding the established oil and grease numerical limit and
responsible for maintaining an effective volume of the interceptor.
Reintroduction of screenings, sludges or residues is prohibited.
   (I)   Any industrial user/satellite town utilizing biological or chemical
additives remains responsible for not exceeding the established oil and grease
numerical limit and responsible for maintaining an effective volume of the
interceptor or separator. Any industrial user/satellite town utilizing
biological additives or enzymes must notify the POTW Director and provide the
material safety data sheets for such additives. The exclusive use of biological
and chemical additives is not considered acceptable grease vessel maintenance
practice. Their use cannot be employed as the sole method of treating or
maintaining the vessel’s effluent.
   (J)   Emulsifiers are prohibited from use in oil and water separators. The
use of emulsifiers in grease interceptors for the purpose of meeting the
established oil and grease numerical limit or to decrease the service frequency
is prohibited.
   (K)   Any industrial user/satellite town utilizing an automatic grease
removal system remains responsible for not exceeding the established oil and
grease numerical limit and remains responsible for maintaining an effective
volume of the interceptor, trap or separator.
   (L)   (1)   Grease interceptors shall receive grease-laden waste from the
major point sources.
      (2)   Wastes that are not expected to contain grease or oil and that
otherwise do not require separation shall not discharge into the interceptor.
      (3)   Hot water flushing of a grease interceptor, trap or separator is
prohibited.
   (M)   The person shall be responsible for ensuring that all of its customers
interceptors, traps and separators are cleaned and serviced as required by all
applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations.
   (N)   The person shall keep all records of interceptor, trap or separator
inspections and maintenance for three years.
      (1)   The user must require its customers to keep records of each clean-
out, including the date of service, name of clean-out company and receipt. The
user shall provide to the POTW Director documentation of inspection and
maintenance as required.
      (2)   The user shall make appropriate arrangements with its customers, if
any, in this regard as needed.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.064 AUTHORITY TO DIRECT AND RESTRICT.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require its local
person within the town’s jurisdiction to restrict their discharge during peak
flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into
specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate
sewage waste streams and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect
the POTW and determine the local person’s compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall authorize the POTW Director to modify the terms
of an existing permit without following the procedures specified elsewhere in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.065 DETECTION OF COMBUSTIBLE GAS.
   Users with potential to discharge flammable substances may be required to
install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
**** FEES ****
§ 50.080 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the recovery of
costs from users of the town’s wastewater collection and treatment system for
the implementation of the program established herein.
   (B)   The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in the town's
schedule of charges and fees.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.081 USER CHARGES.
   (A)   All users to pay for discharge. A user charge shall be levied on all
users including, but not limited to, persons, firms, corporations or
governmental entities that discharge, cause or permit the discharge of sewage
into the POTW.
   (B)   Charges to reflect costs. The user charge shall reflect at least the
cost of debt service, operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the
POTW.
   (C)   Proportionate costs. The POTW Director is authorized to adopt such
plan as will require each user to pay its proportionate cost based on volume of
flow.
   (D)   Annual review. The POTW Director shall review annually the sewage
contributions of users, the total costs of debt service, operation and
maintenance of the POTW and will make recommendations to the Town Council for
adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (E)   Charges for unattributable flow. Charges for flow to the POTW not
directly attributable to a specific user shall be distributed among all users
of the POTW based upon the volume of flow of each the user.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.082 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Levels of waste surcharge. All users of the POTW are subject to waste
surcharges on discharges which exceed the following levels:
 
BOD                    250 mg/l
COD                    750 mg/l
NH3-N                  25.0 mg/l
Oil and grease (total) 100 mg/l
TKN                    40 mg/l
TP                     8 mg/l
TSS                    250 mg/l
 
   (B)   Calculation as to amount of surcharge. The amount of surcharge will be
based upon volume of flow and the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater (in pounds per day) discharged above the levels
listed above. The amount charged per pound of excess will be set forth in the
schedule of charges and fees, which shall be modified from time to time to
reflect the actual costs in treating the excess discharges. The town shall
provide a schedule of such charges to all users, as well as any future
modifications.
   (C)   Volume of flow. The volume of flow for the month in which the tested
sample showed that an excess discharge occurred shall be used in determining
the total discharge of wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges
shall be based on the following:
      (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the town;
      (2)   If required by the town or at the individual discharger’s option
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the POTW. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed, maintained and tested annually for
accuracy in accordance with plans approved by the town and/or state
regulations. The metering system shall be installed, maintained and certified
annually at the user’s expense according to arrangements that may be made with
the town; or
      (3)   When any user procures all or part of his or her water supply from
sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain at his or her
own expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
   (D)   Character and concentration: POTW Director determination binding. The
character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater used in
determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and analyzed by
the town or, with prior approval of the POTW Director, collected by user and
analyzed by a laboratory certified by the state for those parameters, or both.
Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be representative of the
actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R.
part 136 by an approval authority certified laboratory for each parameter
analyzed. Although all data collected will be considered, the determination of
the character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
by the POTW Director shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.083 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the town may include charges and
fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and or slug load
discharge procedures, and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permitting; and
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
**** PERMITS AND AGREEMENTS ****
§ 50.095 PERMISSION FOR DISCHARGES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge wastewater to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the POTW Director and/or entering
into an interlocal agreement with the town as deemed necessary or appropriate
by the town. The POTW Director, utilizing the criteria and procedures set forth
in this section, shall determine from all available sources, including, but not
limited to, information supplied by each user and the town staff, which users
shall be required to obtain a permit before discharging into the POTW.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.096 PERMIT DETERMINATION.
   In order to determine whether a permit must be obtained by a user before
discharging into the POTW, the POTW Director shall use the following.
   (A)   Wastewater survey. The POTW Director may, at any time, require a user
to submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater by
completing a wastewater survey within 30 days following receipt of the request.
The POTW Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update the survey. Failure to complete this
survey or to update an existing survey shall be considered a violation of this
chapter and shall constitute grounds for enforcement action.
   (B)   Request for preliminary determination. All persons proposing to
discharge either domestic or non-domestic wastewater or proposing to change the
volume or characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater
or whose wastewater in excess of the concentration listed therein, shall
request from the POTW Director, a preliminary determination of the status of
the user, utilizing such forms and procedures as the POTW Director may from
time to time require. The POTW Director may determine that the user is a
significant industrial user, a user whose discharge is such that a permit will
not be required or a user that has discharge such that it will be required to
obtain a permit prior to discharging or continuing to discharge into the POTW.
Failure to request a preliminary determination pursuant to this section shall
be considered a violation of this chapter and constitutes grounds for
enforcement action.
   (C)   Action by POTW Director.
      (1)   If the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed
discharge of a user fits the significant industrial user criteria as set forth
in this chapter, he or she will require that a significant industrial user
permit application be filed. No significant industrial user shall discharge
wastewater into the POTW without first having obtained a permit pursuant to
this section.
      (2)   Existing industrial users who are determined by the POTW Director
to be significant industrial users shall apply for a significant industrial
user permit within 90 days of receiving notification of the POTW Director’s
determination.
      (3)   The POTW Director may require users who do not meet the criteria of
significant industrial user to obtain a wastewater discharge permit as
necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter. The POTW Director may also
require a user to obtain a special permit to discharge a specified class of
wastewater of unusual strength or character. Such permit shall state the
conditions on which the permit is issued and shall, in addition to other
remedies available to the POTW Director pursuant to this chapter, be subject to
immediate revocation by the POTW Director in the event of a violation of such
conditions.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.097 VIOLATION OF PERMITS OR AGREEMENTS.
   Any violation of the terms and conditions of any wastewater discharge permit
or interlocal agreement shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subject
the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions either in the form of
sanctions or civil penalties as provided for in this chapter. Obtaining a
wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee/user of its obligation
to comply with federal and state pretreatment standards or requirements or with
other requirements of federal, state and local law.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.098 SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   (A)   Significant industrial user to apply for permit. All persons who have
been determined by the POTW Director to be significant industrial users shall
each apply for a significant industrial user permit pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Significant industrial user permit application. Industrial users are
required to obtain a significant industrial user application in the form
prescribed by the POTW Director, accompanied by an application fee in the
amount prescribed in the schedule of charges and fees as prescribed by all
satellite town users. Significant industrial users shall apply for a
significant industrial user permit within 90 days after notification by the
satellite town or the POTW Director’s determination in §
50.096 of this chapter. The application shall include at a minimum the
information required by 15A NCAC 02H 0.0916(c)(1)(A-M). In support of the
application, the industrial user shall submit any other information deemed
necessary by the POTW Director to evaluate the permit application. This may
include reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and §
50.135 of this chapter.
   (C)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and industrial user reports must be signed by the current
authorized representative of the industrial user’s customer on file with the
town and/or satellite town as defined in §
50.002(A) of this chapter and contain the following certification statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gathered and evaluated the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information,
the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (D)   Application review and evaluation.
      (1)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept and evaluate applications
for the town and shall give final approval for any applications submitted by
any satellite town user of its customers.
      (2)   The POTW and/or designated staff shall conduct a preliminary review
of the application within 30 days of receipt thereof for completeness of
information. The preliminary review of the application is not binding on the
POTW, who may, at any time, request additional information. Upon a
determination that the application is complete, the POTW shall commence formal
review of the application.
      (3)   If the application is not complete, the user and/or POTW shall
return the application to the applicant or third-party user with a statement of
what additional information is required.
   (E)   Tentative determination and issuance of permit.
      (1)   The POTW shall conduct a review of the complete application and of
the person’s onsite inspection of the significant industrial user located
within the town, including any pretreatment facilities, and may elect, within
his or her discretion, to conduct an onsite inspection of the proposed
significant industrial customer located within the jurisdiction of the
satellite town and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative decision to
issue, deny or recommend issuance or denial to the satellite town of the
significant industrial customer’s permit within 90 days following the town’s
receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   If the POTW’s tentative decision in division (A) above is to issue
or recommend issuance of the permit, the following determinations shall be made
in writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations, if needed; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The POTW or satellite town user shall organize the determinations
made pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) above and the general permit conditions
into a significant industrial user permit.
   (F)   Permit supporting documentation. The control authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all significant industrial user permits.
      (1)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
significant industrial users, including, but not limited to, permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates and a comparison of total permitted flows
and loads with division approved maximum allowable loadings of the POTW,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the division. The AT shall
be updated as permits are issued or renewed and as permits are modified where
the permitted limits or other AT information is revised.
      (2)   The basis or rationale for the pretreatment limitations including
the following:
         (a)   Documentation of categorical determination, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards; and
         (b)   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(2).
   (G)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days’ notice and
pursuant to division (I) below;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §§
50.119 through
50.121 and 50.999 of this chapter;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §§
50.119 through
50.121 and 50.999 of this chapter; and
         (f)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW
Director such discharge may cause or contribute to pass through or interference
of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes
of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (H)   Hearing and appeals; significant industrial users; initial
adjudicatory hearings.
      (1)   A significant industrial user applicant whose permit is denied or
is granted subject to conditions the applicant deems unacceptable; a
significant industrial user assessed a civil penalty under §
50.999 of this chapter; or a significant industrial user issued an
administrative order under §
50.119 of this chapter shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before
the POTW Director or other hearing officer appointed by the POTW Director upon
making written demand, identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the
POTW Director within 30 days following the receipt of the significant
industrial user permit; a notice of permit denial; a civil penalty assessment;
or an administrative order. Unless such written demand is made within the time
herein specified, the action/decision shall be final and binding and further
appeal is barred. For modified permits, only those parts of the permit being
modified may be adjudicated. All testimony at the adjudicatory hearing shall be
under oath and shall be transcribed by a certified court reporter employed by
the town. The applicant shall reimburse the town for the costs of the court
reporter. The hearing officer shall make a final decision on the contested
permit, penalty assessment or order within 45 days of the receipt of written
demand for the hearing. The POTW Director shall transmit a copy of the hearing
officer’s decision by registered or certified mail as described in division (H)
(3) below. The terms and conditions of a permit under appeal shall be as
follows:
         (a)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution;
         (b)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution;
and
         (c)   Terminated permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in
the general courts of justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect
until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a
mutual resolution.
      (2)   Any decision of a hearing officer made as a result of an
adjudicatory hearing held under division (H)(1) above may be appealed to the
Town Council (or such committee of the Council as it may designate to hear
appeals under this section) upon filing a written demand within ten days of
receipt of notice of the decision. Hearings held under this division (H)(2)
shall be conducted as a quasi-judicial hearing in accordance with agenda
procedures adopted by the Town Council or the committee for the hearing of
appeals. Failure to make written demand within the time specified herein shall
bar further appeal. The Town Council shall make a final decision on the appeal
within 90 days from receipt of the demand filed under division (H)(1) above and
shall transmit a written copy of its decision by registered or certified mail
as described in division (H)(3) below. The decision is a final decision for the
purposes of seeking judicial review.
      (3)   When a final decision is issued under division (H)(2) above, the
town shall prepare an official record of the case that includes:
         (a)   All notices, motions and other like pleadings;
         (b)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
         (c)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken; and
         (d)   A copy of the final decision of the Town Council.
      (4)   Any person against whom a final order or decision of the Town
Council or its duly appointed committee is entered may seek judicial review of
the order or decision within 30 days after receipt of notice by registered or
certified mail of the order or decision but not thereafter, in a proceeding in
the nature of certiorari in the Superior Court Division of the General Court of
Justice, Duplin County. Within 30 days of the service of the petition on the
town or within such other time period as directed by the Court, the town shall
file with the court certified copies of the official record of the hearing as
described in division (H)(3) above.
   (I)   Permit modification.
      (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits, except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance, and the following shall apply:
         (a)   Changes in the permittee’s corporate or assumed name only, when
no other change in the permit is indicated;
         (b)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
         (c)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months;
         (d)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational; and
         (e)   Modifications to correct typographical errors in the wastewater
permit.
      (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. When a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by this section, the user shall
apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the promulgation
of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
      (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b)(4)c and division
(G)(2)(c) above.
   (J)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (K)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation.
   (L)   Permit reissuance. A user shall apply for permit reissuance by
submitting a complete permit application in accordance with §
50.098 of this chapter a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the
existing permit.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 143-215.1(b)(4)c
§ 50.099 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with such
conditions and provisions as the Director believes necessary to achieve the
purpose of this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall at a
minimum contain the following provisions:
      (1)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
      (2)   A statement of non-transferability;
      (3)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or local
limits or both;
      (4)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
record-keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
      (5)   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an accidental
discharge or slug load as defined in §
50.002(A) of this chapter;
      (6)   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for prevention
of accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in §
50.002(A) of this chapter, if determined by the POTW Director to be necessary
for the user;
      (7)   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharges
or slug load as defined in §
50.002(A) of this chapter. Also see §§
50.139 and
50.140 of this chapter; and
      (8)   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
   (B)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following provisions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum, rate of discharge and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and/or monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
      (3)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices designed to reduce, eliminate
or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment works;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to and treatment by the town
wastewater system;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of monitoring and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (7)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations; frequency of sampling; number, types and standards for tests; and
reporting schedules;
      (8)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of non-
compliance and for automatic re-sampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
      (9)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
      (10)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or special
notification reports;
      (11)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
50.044 of this chapter and affording the POTW Director or his or her
representatives access thereto;
      (12)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
      (13)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee;
      (14)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
term of the permit;
      (15)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director to
ensure compliance with this section, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations; and
      (16)   Requirements for immediate notification of excessive, accidental
or slug discharges or any discharge which could cause any problems to the
system.
(Ord. 00277d, passed 2-4-2003; Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 143215.1
§ 50.100 LOCAL NON-SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   Users who do not meet the criteria for significant industrial user may
be required by the POTW Director to obtain a wastewater discharge permit when
it is determined by the POTW Director that such permit meets the intent of this
chapter. All users with an oil and grease interceptor, trap or separator shall
submit an industrial waste survey or permit application to determine the need
for a local wastewater discharge permit. The POTW Director may issue such local
permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   User permits shall comply with the requirements of §
50.099 of this chapter.
   (C)   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed
five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be
stated to expire on a specific date.
   (D)   Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed
operation.
   (E)   A permitted user shall apply for a permit reissuance by submitting a
complete permit application a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of the
existing permit.
   (F)   A permitted user must keep a copy of his or her wastewater permit on
site at the local facility. For permitted users with an oil and grease
interceptor or separator, the user’s permit shall establish a minimum frequency
of service. More frequent service may be necessary to comply with the
established numerical limit.
   (G)   For permitted users with an oil and grease interceptor or separator,
failure to service the unit in the time period required by permit and/or
failure to provide documentation required by permit shall each constitute
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.101 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, county or user contributes wastewater to the
POTW, the POTW Director may enter into an inter-jurisdictional agreement with
the contributing municipality or, if such agreement already exists, the
provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to and enforced by such other
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement permitted by division (A) above or
being issued a permit under the terms of this chapter, the POTW Director shall
require the following information from the contributing municipality/county:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater to be
discharged to the POTW by the contributing municipality/county;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW, pollutants present and details
of SIU determination; and
      (3)   Such other information as the POTW Director may deem necessary.
   (C)   An inter-jurisdictional agreement, as permitted by division (A) above,
shall contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality/county to adopt a
sewer use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local
limits which are at least as stringent as those set out in §
50.003(B) of this chapter. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance
and limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the town’s
ordinance or local limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis, including pollutants present and
details of SIU determination;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the POTW Director; and which of
these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing municipality and
the POTW Director;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the POTW
Director with access to all information that the contributing municipality
obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where its wastewater can be sampled
separate and apart from any other wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
      (7)   A provision granting the POTW Director immediate access, in the
event of an emergency, without notice to the facilities of any user for the
purpose of inspection, sampling and any other duties deemed necessary by the
POTW Director at any time a user is discharging wastewater into the
municipality’s wastewater system;
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach; and
      (9)   Where the contributing municipality has primary responsibilities
for permitting, compliance, monitoring or enforcement, the inter-jurisdictional
agreement, and/or a permit issued under the terms of this chapter, shall
specify that the town has the right to take legal action to enforce the terms
of the contributing municipality’s ordinance or to impose and enforce
pretreatment standards and requirements directly against non-compliant
dischargers in the event the contributing municipality is unable or unwilling
to take such action.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 50.115 AUTHORITY TO CUT OFF SERVICE.
   (A)   All utility accounts are due and payable on the tenth of each month.
The grace period extends to the fifteenth of each month.
   (B)   Late fees and cut-offs are generally scheduled for the sixteenth of
each month; therefore, the following cut-off procedures will be in force until
otherwise approved by the Town Manager.
      (1)   Cut-off suspended. Cut-off will be suspended when the sixteenth
falls on a holiday, weekend or the first day after a holiday weekend.
      (2)   After-hours reconnects. Any customer requesting reconnection after
5:00 p.m. and before 10:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, will be granted turn-
on, unless otherwise granted by the Town Manager or Public Works Director.
Public Works will report any after-hours turn-ons to the Administration Office.
      (3)   Cut-off list. Cut-off list will be turned over to Public Works
after daily deposit is updated.
      (4)   Cut-off list returned and signed. Cut-off list will be returned
signed and dated to the Utility Billing Office when complete.
      (5)   When cut-offs to be completed. All cut-offs will be completed on
the day the cut-off list is received by Public Works unless otherwise
authorized by the Town Manager or Public Works Director.
      (6)   Reconnects. Reconnects will be expedited, same day as payment.
      (7)   Certain accounts; turn off requiring authorization. Certain
accounts will not be turned off unless authorized, due to the nature of the
business. Examples are:
         (a)   Beauty shops;
         (b)   Medical facilities;
         (c)   Dental facilities;
         (d)   Nursing homes; and
         (e)   Day cares.
(Prior Code, § 50.075) (Ord. passed 11-14-1986)
§ 50.116 INSPECTION.
   The approving authority and other duly authorized employees of the town,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.076) (Ord. passed 4-12-1984)
§ 50.117 POLICE TO AID IN ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the police to give diligent aid in the enforcement
of this chapter and the rules and regulations hereof and shall report all
violators thereof which come to their knowledge to the Town Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 50.077)
§ 50.118 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data public record. Information and data on a user
obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits and
monitoring programs and from inspections shall be available to the public or
other governmental agency without restriction unless the user specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the town and/or
other user that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user. Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data.
   (B)   Confidential information. When requested by the person furnishing a
report, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret
processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall
be made available, upon written request, to governmental agencies for uses
related to this chapter the national pollutant discharge elimination system
(NPDES) permit, non-discharge permit and/or the pretreatment programs;
provided, however, that, such portions of a report shall be available for use
by the EPA, the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement
proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
   (C)   Information which will not be treated as confidential. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as confidential
information.
   (D)   Compliance information available to governmental agencies. All records
relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall be made available to
officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.119 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this subchapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or any prohibition, limitation or requirement
contained therein or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the POTW
Director may serve upon such user a written notice of violation. Within 14 days
or within such other greater period as the POTW Director may allow from the
date of the notice, the user shall submit an explanation for the violation and
a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof. Submission of this plan shall
not relieve the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the POTW Director to take any action, including emergency actions
or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the non-compliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the non-compliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   In cases not involving an emergency or endangerment to the public
health or POTW personnel, the POTW Director may order any user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, who has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this subchapter or who is in non-compliance with a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, to appear before the
POTW Director and show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. In the event the POTW Director determines a show cause order should be
issued, a notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for
the hearing, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and
requesting that the user show cause why this proposed enforcement action should
not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days
before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a
corporation, or the Mayor or Town/County Manager. A show cause hearing shall
not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, the assessment of a civil penalty or
the taking of any other action against the user, nor is any action or inaction
taken by the POTW Director under this section subject to an administrative
appeal under §
50.098(H) of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
   (D)   Administrative orders.
      (1)   When the POTW Director finds that a user has violated or continues
to violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement or
that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the POTW Director may
issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such violations
and directing the user to do any of the following:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
         (b)   Come into compliance in accordance with a time schedule set
forth in the order;
         (c)   Take the appropriate remedial or preventive action needed to
address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting operations or
terminating discharge; and
         (d)   Initiate legal action to compel compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified time
period. The person will have to disconnect from the POTW.
      (2)   Issuance of an administrative order shall not be a bar against or a
prerequisite for taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The POTW Director may temporarily suspend the wastewater treatment
service and/or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, which interferes with the POTW, or which causes the POTW to
violate any condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of an intended temporary suspension of the
wastewater treatment service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately
stop or eliminate the contribution. A hearing will be held as soon as possible,
but in all events within five working days from the date of the giving of the
notice of suspension to determine whether the suspension may be lifted, or the
user’s waste discharge permit terminated. In the event of a failure by the user
to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the POTW Director shall take
such steps deemed necessary to prevent or minimize further damage to the POTW
or endangerment to any individuals including, but not limited to, continued
temporary termination of the receipt of wastewater from the user. The POTW
Director shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the non- compliant discharge. The user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the POTW
Director prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge.
      (1)   The POTW Director may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or
permission to discharge for good cause, including, but not limited to, the
material and continued breach of the user’s obligations under this chapter for
the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the constituents and
characteristics of its wastewater discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Failure or refusal to allow access without delay to the user’s
premises for the purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, provisions of this chapter or any applicable state and federal
regulations.
      (2)   Non-compliant users will be notified of the proposed termination of
their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to show cause under
§
50.119 of this chapter why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.120 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals by significant industrial users. Appeals by all other users or
persons shall be governed by this section.
   (B)   Administrative appeal. An applicant whose permit is denied or is
granted subject to conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permittee/user
assessed a civil penalty under §
50.999 of this chapter, or one issued an administrative order under §
50.119 of this chapter shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before
the POTW Director or other hearing officer appointed by the POTW Director upon
making written demand, identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the
POTW Director within 30 days following receipt of the significant industrial
user permit, civil penalty assessment or administrative order. Unless such
written demand is made within the time herein specified, the initial
determination shall be final and binding and further appeal is barred. For
modified permits, only those parts of the permit being modified may be
adjudicated. During the pendency of such appeal, the assessment of such penalty
or such other action as may be the subject of an appeal shall be stayed. Upon
appeal of a new permit, the terms and conditions of the entire permit are
stayed and the permit is not in effect until either the conclusion of judicial
review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution. Upon appeal of an
existing permit, the terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in
effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution. Upon appeal of a terminated permit, no permit is in
effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
   (C)   Time for hearing. The hearing must be held by the Town Manager or his
or her designee within 30 calendar days following receipt of the request for
hearing. At the hearing, the appellant shall be given the opportunity to
present evidence to refute the findings which supported the initial
determination. The Town Manager or his or her designee shall consider the
evidence before him or her and shall either revoke, modify or affirm the
initial determination. The Town Manager or his or her designee shall make a
final decision on the contested permit, penalty assessment or order within 15
days of the hearing. The Town Manager or his or her designee shall file an
official record of the decision. The decision is a final decision for the
purposes of seeking judicial review.
   (D)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the Town Manager or his or her designee is entered may seek judicial review of
the order or decision within 30 days after receipt of notice by registered or
certified mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter, in a proceeding in
the nature of certiorari in the Superior Court Division of the General Court of
Justice, Duplin County. Within 30 days of the service of the petition on the
town or within such other time period as directed by the Court, the town shall
file with the court certified copies of the official record of the hearing
which shall include:
      (1)   All notices, motions and other like pleadings;
      (2)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
      (3)   Minutes of the hearing or an audio tape recording of the hearing;
and
      (4)   A copy of the final decision of the Town Manager or his or her
designee.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.121 AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Remedies, in addition to those previously provided in this subchapter,
are available to the POTW Director, who may use any single one or combination
against a non-compliant user.
   (B)   Additional remedies include, but are not limited to, the following.
      (1)   Town Attorney to take action. If any person violates this chapter
or any order or permit issued hereunder or any other pretreatment requirement,
the POTW Director, through the Town Attorney, may commence an action for
appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the General Court of Justice for
Duplin County.
      (2)   Criminal violations. The district attorney for the 27A Judicial
District may, at the request of the town, prosecute non-compliant users who
violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B.
      (3)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW
Director, through the Town Attorney, may petition the General Court of Justice
for the issuance of a temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent
injunction or both as may be appropriate, which restrains or compels the
activities in question.
      (4)   Violation of ordinance declared a public nuisance. Any violation of
the prohibitions or effluent limitations of this chapter or of a permit or
order issued hereunder is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be
corrected or abated as directed by the POTW Director. Any person(s) creating a
public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of state law and the town
ordinances governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the POTW for any
costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying said nuisance.
      (5)   Remedies non-exclusive. The remedies provided for herein are not
exclusive. The POTW Director may take any, all or any combination of these
actions against a non-compliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations
will generally be in accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan.
However, the POTW Director may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 143-215.6B
§ 50.122 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction(s)
served by the POTW, a list of those users which were found to be in significant
non-compliance (also referred to as reportable non-compliance in 15A NCAC 2H
.0903(b)(34), with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements) during
the previous 12 months.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.123 DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for non- compliance with pretreatment standards if the requirements of
division (A)(2) below are met.
      (2)   A user who wishes to claim upset as a defense to its non-compliance
shall have the burden of demonstrating, through properly signed,
contemporaneous operating logs or other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset, as defined herein, occurred and the user can identify
the cause(s) of the upset;
         (b)   The facility was, at the time, being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in full compliance with applicable operation and
maintenance procedures;
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
            1.   A description of the discharge and the cause of the non-
compliance for which upset is claimed as a defense;
            2.   The period of non-compliance, including exact dates and times
and, if not corrected, the anticipated amount of time the non-compliance is
expected to continue; and
            3.   All steps being taken or planned or both to reduce, eliminate
and prevent recurrence of the non-compliance.
         (d)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof;
         (e)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on
any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for non-compliance
with categorical pretreatment standards; and
         (f)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with this chapter upon reduction, loss or
failure of its treatment facility until the facility is restored or an
alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement applies in the
situation where, among other things, the primary source of power of the
treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards defense. A user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for non-
compliance with the general prohibitions in §
50.040 of this chapter or the specific prohibitions in §
50.041(B), (C), (E) through (G), and (I) through (AA) of this chapter if it can
prove that it did not know or have reason to know that its discharge, alone or
in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to and during the pass through or
interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the town WWTP was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit and, in the
case of interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   Permitted bypass. A user may allow any bypass to occur which does
not cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated but only if it
also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses
are not subject to divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4) below.
      (2)   Notice of bypass.
         (a)   Except in the case of emergencies, a user shall submit at least
ten days’ prior notice to the POTW Director of need for the bypass.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times; if the
bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue;
and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent recurrence of the
bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis
if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (3)   Requirements to establish defense of bypass.
         (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated waste or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)(3)
(a)2. above.
         (b)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(3)(a) above.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
**** REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 50.135 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Report required. Within either 180 days after the effective date of a
categorical pretreatment standards or the final administration decision on a
category determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4) (whichever is later),
existing categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to
discharge to the POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains
the information listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of any applicable
categorical standard shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains
the information listed in division (B) below. A new source shall also be
required to report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet
applicable categorical standards. A new source shall also give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants discharged.
   (B)   Content. Users described above shall submit the information set forth
below:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description shall include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration (or mass or both, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director) of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations (or mass,
where required) shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
50.143(A) of this chapter; and
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
50.143(B) of this chapter and 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (g), including 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(4).
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s current
authorized representative as defined in §
50.002(A) of this chapter and certified by a professional engineer or other
qualified professional approved by the POTW Director, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must be approved by the POTW Director and, at a minimum, meet the
requirements set out in §
50.136 of this chapter.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
50.098(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.136 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
50.135(B)(7) of this chapter.
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
   (C)   The industrial user shall submit a progress report to the POTW
Director no later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied
with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay and, if appropriate,
the steps being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.137 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any industrial
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the POTW Director a report containing the information described in §
50.135(B)(4) through (B)(6) of this chapter. For users subject to equivalent
mass or concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the
industrial user’s long-term production rate. For all other industrial users
subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable
pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation),
this report shall include the industrial user’s actual production during the
appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with §
50.098(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.138 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Sampling and analysis of user discharge. Municipalities may sample and
analyze industrial user discharges in lieu of, as well as in addition to,
requiring the industrial users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (B)   Periodic compliance reports required. All significant industrial users
shall, at a frequency determined by the POTW Director but in no case less than
once every six months, submit a report indicating the nature and concentration
of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and
the applicable flows for the reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be
performed in accordance with procedures set out in §
50.143 of this chapter. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with §
50.098(C) of this chapter.
   (C)   Additional sampling to be included in report. If a industrial user
subject to the reporting requirements of this section monitors any pollutant
more frequently than required by the POTW Director, using the procedures
prescribed in §
50.143 of this chapter, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.139 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Reports of change in condition required. Each user shall notify the
POTW Director of any planned significant change to the industrial user’s
operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its
wastewater at least 30 days before effecting the change. The permittee shall
not begin the changes until receiving written approval from the control
authority and/or POTW. See §
50.140(E) of this chapter for other reporting requirements.
   (B)   Report. The POTW Director may require the industrial user/satellite
town to submit such information deemed necessary to evaluate the changed
condition. Such request may require the submission of an application for a
wastewater discharge permit or an application for a modification of an existing
permit pursuant to §
50.098 of this chapter.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge permit. The POTW Director may issue a wastewater
discharge permit or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §§
50.095 through
50.101 of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
   (D)   Significant changes. For purposes of this requirement, significant
changes include, but are not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of 20% or
greater and the discharge of any previous unreported pollutants. Significant
change may also include, but are not limited to, new or changed product lines,
new or changed manufacturing processes and/or chemicals; increases or decreases
to production; and increases in discharge of previously reported pollutants.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.140 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   Notice of unusual discharges required. In the case of any discharges,
including, but not limited to, accidental discharges, discharges of a non-
routine episodic nature, non-customary batch discharges or a slug load, as
defined in §
50.002(A) of this chapter, that may cause potential problems to the POTW, the
user shall immediately call and notify the POTW Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration, volume (if known) and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Detailed written report. Within five days following such discharge,
the industrial user/satellite town shall, unless waived by the POTW Director,
submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and
the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences.
Subject to the provisions of §
50.123 of this chapter, such notification shall not relieve the industrial
user/satellite town from any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may
be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of
any fines, penalties or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this
chapter.
   (C)   Failure to report. Failure to notify the POTW Director of potential
problem discharges shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Posting of notice of procedures. A notice shall be permanently posted
on the industrial user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising
employees of the procedures to be taken, including whom at the town to notify
in the event of a discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall
ensure that all employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised
of the emergency notification procedure.
   (E)   Notification of changes required. All SIUs are required to notify the
POTW immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for
spills and other accidental discharge, discharge of a non-routine, episodic
nature, a non-customary batch discharge or a slug load as defined in §
50.002(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.141 REPORTS FROM USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may require. All
industrial users classified as non-significant categorical industrial users
under §
50.002(A) of this chapter shall provide appropriate reports to the POTW
Director as the POTW Director may require. At a minimum, this shall include the
annual certification of continuing to meet the non-significant categorical
industrial user criteria as required under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(g).
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.142 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by an industrial user/satellite town indicates a
violation, the industrial user/satellite town must notify the POTW Director
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The industrial user/
satellite town shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, an industrial
user/satellite town is not required to resample:
      (1)   If the POTW Director monitors at the industrial user’s facility at
least once a month; or
      (2)   If the POTW Director samples between the industrial user’s initial
sampling and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (B)   If the POTW has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
user and the POTW sampling of the an industrial user/satellite town indicates a
violation, the POTW shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the
repeat analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation, unless
one of the following occurs:
      (1)   The POTW monitors at the user’s facility at least once a month;
      (2)   The POTW samples the user between their initial sampling and when
the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
      (3)   The POTW requires the user to perform sampling and submit the
results to the POTW Director within the 30-day deadline of the POTW becoming
aware of the violation.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.143 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS; SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed by a laboratory certified by the state
to perform the wastewater analyses in accordance with the techniques prescribed
in 40 C.F.R. part 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard. If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must
be performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA or by the POTW
Director. Analyses must be performed by laboratory certified by the state for
each parameter analyzed if such certification exists for those parameters.
   (B)   Sample collection.
      (1)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement equipment/facilities
shall be properly operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at
all times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good
working order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results
are unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (2)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds and any other pollutants as
required by 40 C.F.R. part 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs
necessary to be representative of the user’s discharge. See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(g)(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for baseline monitoring
reports (BMR) and 90-day compliance reports. Additionally, the POTW Director
may allow collection of multiple grabs during a 24-hour period which are
composited prior to analysis as allowed under 40 C.F.R. part 136.
      (3)   All wastewater composite samples shall be collected with a minimum
of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there is a discharge. All
wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow proportional
composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When authorizing time-
proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be representative and the
decision to allow the alternative sampling must be documented.
      (4)   Tampering, altering or otherwise modifying monitoring equipment or
compromising the integrity of any sample shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.144 TIMING; RECORD KEEPING; ELECTRONIC REPORTING.
   (A)   Timing. Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the
date postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
   (B)   Recordkeeping. Industrial users/satellite town subject to the
reporting requirements of this subchapter shall retain and make available for
inspection and copying all records of information obtained pursuant to any
monitoring activities required by this chapter and any additional records or
information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities undertaken by the user
independent of such requirements. Records shall include: the date, exact place,
method and time of sampling; the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the
dates analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical
techniques or methods used; the results of such analyses and chain of custody;
and industrial flow monitor report forms as prescribed by the POTW Director.
These records shall remain available for a period of at least three years. This
period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any litigation
involving matters arising out of this chapter and concerning the user or the
town or when the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention
period by the POTW Director. Making inaccurate or false entries on records and
reports shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Electronic reporting. The POTW Director may develop procedures for
receipt and forwarding of electronic reports for any reporting requirements of
this chapter. Such procedures shall comply with 40 C.F.R. part 3. These
procedures shall be enforceable under §§
50.119 through
50.121 and
50.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.145 SPECIAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR INDUSTRIAL USERS IN SATELLITE
POTWS.
   In the case of any industrial user located in a satellite POTW
organization’s jurisdiction, all information required to be reported to the
industrial user’s pretreatment program control authority shall also be reported
to the POTW treatment plant organization.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.146 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Monitoring facilities.
      (1)   User to provide facility. The POTW Director may require the user to
provide and operate at the user’s own expense, monitoring facilities to allow
inspection, sampling and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal
drainage systems. The monitoring facility shall, unless otherwise permitted by
the POTW Director, be situated on the user’s premises, but the POTW Director
may, when such location would be impractical or would cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the dedicated public right-
of-way, street or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed
by landscaping or parked vehicles. The POTW Director may designate a minimum
frequency for calibration of monitoring equipment; however, the user shall be
responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the equipment at all times.
      (2)   Space. The user shall provide ample room in or near such sampling
manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for
analysis. The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at
all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the facility
to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user at the
written or verbal request of the POTW Director and shall not be replaced. The
costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      (3)   Facility to meet town standards. Whether constructed on public or
private property, the sampling and monitoring facilities shall be installed
within 90 days or such greater period as determined by the POTW Director. All
sampling and monitoring facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the
town requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications.
   (B)   Right of entry; inspection and sampling.
      (1)   Right of entry/sampling. The town may inspect the facilities of any
user to ascertain whether the conditions of this chapter are being complied
with and all requirements are being met. Persons or occupants of premises where
wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the town, approval authority
and EPA, or their representatives ready access at all reasonable times to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, determining
compliance with any order, records examination and copying, or in the
performance of any of their duties. The town, approval authority and EPA shall
have the right to set up on the user’s property such devices as are necessary
to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering
operations.
      (2)   User to arrange for prompt entry of town. When a user has security
measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before
entry onto its premises or safety requirements or concerns, the user shall make
necessary arrangements with its personnel or security guards so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the town, approval
authority and the EPA will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes
of performing the specific responsibilities. Denial of the town’s, the approval
authority’s or EPA’s access to the user’s premises shall be a violation of this
chapter. Unreasonable delay may constitute a denial of access.
      (3)   Emergency measures. Upon being delayed or otherwise refused entry
to a user’s facility, the town may take such emergency measures as is
reasonably prudent, and immediately notify the Town Attorney and the chief
executive officer of the user; call for the dispatch of such emergency
personnel as required to prevent or limit the discharge of hazardous wastes in
order to protect the citizens, the personnel of the town, the POTW and the
environment; and begin such emergency sampling and monitoring as required to
determine the type and character of user’s effluent. All costs associated with
the response necessitated by the delay or refusal shall be at the sole expense
of the user, including, but not limited to, attorney’s fees, emergency response
team costs, monitoring and sampling costs, as well as such other costs,
penalties and expenses as may be determined pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Search warrants. If the town, approval authority, or EPA has been
refused access to a building, structure or property or any part thereof and are
able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of
this chapter or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify
compliance with this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder or to
protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then
the town, approval authority or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from
the Superior Court of the General Court of Justice of the applicable county in
which the user is located.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Authority to assess civil penalties. Any user who is found to have
failed to comply with any provision of this chapter or the orders, rules,
regulations and permits issued hereunder, may be assessed a civil penalty of up
to $25,000 per day per violation. Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day
per violation may be assessed against a violator only if:
      (1)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the violation; or
      (2)   In the case of failure to file, submit or make available, as the
case may be, any documents, data or reports required by this chapter or the
orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
   (B)   Costs; attorney’s fees. The POTW Director may recover attorney’s fees,
court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages
incurred by the town.
   (C)   Determination of amount. In determining the amount of civil penalty to
be assessed, the POTW Director may consider any other relevant circumstances,
but shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree or extent of harm to the natural resources, to the
public health or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The gravity and duration of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on-air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by non-compliance and any other economic
benefit gained through the user’s violation;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program; and
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
   (D)   Collection. Actions for unpaid civil penalties shall be referred to
the Town Attorney for collection.
   (E)   Assessment not a bar. Assessment of a civil penalty shall not be a bar
against or a prerequisite for the taking of any other action against the user.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2021)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Interference with waterworks property prohibited
   
51.02   All work to be done by licensed plumber
   
51.03   Usage regulations
   
51.04   Administration and enforcement
   
51.05   Cross-connection control
   
51.06   Potable specifications
Applications for Service; Connections
   
51.20   Application required
   
51.21   Permit issuance; security deposit
   
51.22   Water services; separate water meter and tapping fee required
   
51.23   Metering multiple dwellings or businesses
   
51.24   Connections, fixtures town property
   
51.25   Construction of connection
   
51.26   Separate connection required; exceptions
   
51.27   Connection inspection
   
51.28   Deposit by tenants required
   
51.29   Water line extensions
Rates and Charges; Billing
   
51.45   Water sold on meter basis only; exceptions
   
51.46   Use of water for fire protection
   
51.47   Tapping charges
   
51.48   Discounts for vacancies
   
51.49   Necessary stoppage; no discounts
   
51.50   Schedule of water rates
   
51.51   Bills due and payable; delinquencies
 
   
51.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.01 INTERFERENCE WITH WATERWORKS PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person but an authorized employee of the town shall tap any main or
distributing pipe or open or close any valve on the system nor open or close
any stopcock at the curb on any service connection.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
interfere with or in any way intermeddle with any of the buildings, wells,
reservoirs, tanks, pipes, meters or connections or with the water in same or
with any apparatus forming a part of the water works system or make any
connection therewith, except as herein provided for or to knowingly permit same
to be done on his, her or their premises or premises in his, her or their
possession or control as agent or knowingly use water from the unauthorized
connection.
      (2)   Nor shall any authorized consumer be allowed to supply water to
other persons or families, nor shall any person take or carry away water from
any authorized connection or from any hydrant, watering trough or public
fountain without the consent of the town.
(Prior Code, § 51.002) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 ALL WORK TO BE DONE BY LICENSED PLUMBER.
   All water line work outside the corporate limits of the town shall be
completed by the contractors of the owners’ choice with plans and installation
inspected and approved by the Town Engineer or Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.003) (Ord. passed 5-30-1974) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 USAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Use of hose for sprinkling. No hose shall be used for sprinkling or
other purposes, except on services upon which a meter has been installed.
(Prior Code, § 51.060)
   (B)   Use of fire hydrants. Fire hydrants are for the use of Fire Department
only for the extinguishing of fires and must be used by no other person nor for
any other purpose whatever, except uses as the town may deem advisable for
municipal purposes.
(Prior Code, § 51.061)
   (C)   Water pressure. The town will furnish water to the applicant at normal
town pressure. Any additional pressure desired is the responsibility of the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 51.062)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Right of entry. The town reserves the right to enter the premises of
any consumer for the purpose of inspection at any time to see that no water is
being wasted and that the prescribed regulations are being complied with.
(Prior Code, § 51.075)
   (B)   Authority to cut off service. All utility accounts are due and payable
on the tenth of each month. The grace period extends to the fifteenth of each
month. Late fees and cut-offs are generally scheduled for the sixteenth of each
month; therefore, the following cut-off procedures will be in force until
otherwise approved by the Town Manager.
      (1)   Cut-off suspended. Cut-off will be suspended when the twentieth
falls on a holiday, weekend or the first day after a holiday weekend.
      (2)   After-hours reconnects. Any customer requesting reconnection after
5:00 p.m. and before 10:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, will be granted turn-on
unless otherwise granted by the Town Manager or Public Works Director. Public
Works will report any after-hours turn-ons to the Administration Office.
      (3)   Cut-off list. Cut-off list will be turned over to Public Works
after daily deposit is updated.
      (4)   Cut-off list to be returned and signed. Cut-off list will be
returned signed and dated to the Utility Billing Office when complete.
      (5)   Cut-offs; when to be completed. All cut-offs will be completed on
the day the cut-off list is received by Public Works unless otherwise
authorized by the Town Manager or Public Works Director.
      (6)   Reconnects. Reconnects will be expedited, same day as payment.
      (7)   Turning off accounts. Certain accounts will not be turned off
unless authorized, due to the nature of the business. Examples are:
         (a)   Beauty shops;
         (b)   Medical facilities;
         (c)   Dental facilities;
         (d)   Nursing homes; and
         (e)   Day cares.
(Prior Code, § 51.076)
   (C)   Police to aid in enforcement. It shall be the duty of the police of
the town to give diligent aid in the enforcement of this chapter and the rules
and regulations hereof and shall report all violators thereof which come to
their knowledge to the Town Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 51.077)
§ 51.05 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   Introductions.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to define the authority of the
Public Works Department of the town as the water purveyor in the elimination of
all cross-connections within its potable water supply.
      (2)   This chapter shall apply to all users connected with the public
works potable water supply regardless of whether the user is located within the
town limits or outside the town limits.
      (3)   This chapter will comply with the Federal Safe Drinking Act, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 300(f) et seq., the State Administrative Code (Title 15A,
Subchapter 8C), and the State Building Code (Volume II) as they pertain to
cross-connections with the public water supply.
(Prior Code, § 51.090)
   (B)   Objectives. The specific objectives of this chapter for the Public
Works Department of the town are as follows:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the town against
actual or potential contamination by isolating within the consumers water
system, contaminates or pollutants which could, under adverse conditions,
backflow through uncontrolled cross-connections in to the public water system;
      (2)   To eliminate or control existing cross-connections, actual or
potential, between the consumers potable water system(s) and non-potable or
industrial piping system(s); and
      (3)   To provide a continuing inspection program of cross-connection
control which will systematically and effectively control all actual or
potential cross-connections which may be installed in the future.
(Prior Code, § 51.091)
   (C)   Responsibilities.
      (1)   Health Agency.
         (a)   The State Department of Environment Health and Natural Resources
(Division of Health Services) has the responsibility for promulgating and
enforcing laws, rules, regulations and policies to be followed in carrying out
an effective cross-connection control program.
         (b)   The State Department of Environment Health and Natural Resources
(Division of Health Services) has the primary responsibility of ensuring that
the water purveyor operates the public potable water system free of actual or
potential sanitary hazards, including unprotected cross- connections. They have
the further responsibility of ensuring that the water purveyor provides an
approved water supply at the service connection to the consumer’s water system;
and, further, that he or she requires the installation, testing and maintenance
of an approved backflow prevention assembly on the service connection when
required.
      (2)   Water purveyor.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the water purveyor’s
(Public Works) responsibility to ensure a safe water supply begins at the
source and includes all of the public water distribution system, including the
service connection and ends at the point of delivery to the consumers water
system(s). In addition, the water purveyor shall exercise reasonable vigilance
to ensure that the consumer has taken the proper steps to protect the public
potable water system. To ensure that the proper precautions are taken, the
Public Works Department is required to determine the degree of hazard or
potential hazard to the public potable water system; to determine the degree of
protection required; and to ensure proper containment protection through an on-
going inspection program.
         (b)   When it is determined that a backflow prevention assembly is
required for the protection of the public system, the Public Works Department
shall require the consumer, at the consumer’s expense, to install an approved
backflow prevention assembly at each service connection, to test immediately
upon installation and thereafter at a frequency as determined by the Public
Works Department, to properly repair and maintain the assemblies, and to keep
adequate records of each test and subsequent maintenance and repair, including
materials and/or replacement parts.
      (3)   Plumbing inspections.
         (a)   The Plumbing Inspection Department of the county has the
responsibility to not only review building plans and inspect plumbing as it is
installed, but it also has the explicit responsibility of preventing cross-
connections from being designed and built into the plumbing systems within its
jurisdiction. Where the review of building plans suggests or detects the
potential for cross-connections being made an integral part of the plumbing
system, the Plumbing Inspector has the responsibility, under the State Building
Code, for requiring that the cross-connections be either eliminated or provided
with backflow prevention equipment approved by the State Building Code.
         (b)   The plumbing inspectors responsibility begins at the point of
delivery and continues throughout the entire length of the consumers water
system. The Plan Inspector should inquire about the intended use of water at
any point where a point of delivery is actually called for by the plans. When
such is discovered, it shall be mandatory that a suitable, backflow prevention
assembly approved by the State Building Code be required by the plans and be
properly installed. The primary protection assembly for containment purposes
only shall have approval from the Public Works Department, the State Building
Code and the State Department of Environment Health and Natural Resources.
      (4)   Consumer. The consumer has the primary responsibility of preventing
pollutants and contaminants from entering his or her potable water system or
the public potable water system. The consumer responsibility starts at the
point of delivery from the public potable water system and includes all of his
or her water system. The consumer, at his or her own expense, shall install,
operate, test and maintain approved backflow prevention assemblies as directed
by the Public Works Department. The consumer shall maintain accurate records of
tests and repairs made to backflow prevention assemblies and shall maintain the
records for a minimum period of three years. The records shall be on forms
approved by the Public Works Department and shall include the list of materials
or replacement parts used. Following any repair, overhaul, re-piping or
relocation of an assembly, the consumer shall have it tested to ensure that it
is in good operating condition and will prevent backflow. Tests, maintenance
and repairs of backflow prevention assemblies shall be made by a certified
backflow prevention assembly tester.
      (5)   Certified backflow prevention assembly tester. When employed by the
consumer to test, repair, overhaul or maintain backflow prevention assemblies,
a backflow prevention assembly tester will have the following responsibilities:
The tester will be responsible for making competent inspections and for
repairing or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies and making reports of
the repair to the consumer and responsible authorities on forms provided by the
Public Works Department. The tester shall include the list of materials or
replacement parts used. The tester shall be equipped with and be competent to
use all necessary tools, gauges or other equipment necessary to properly test,
repair and maintain backflow prevention assemblies. It will be the tester’s
further responsibility not to change the design, material or operational
characteristics of an assembly. A certified tester shall perform the work and
be responsible for the competency and accuracy of all tests and reports. A
tester shall provide a copy of all test and repair reports to the consumer and
to the Public Works Department within ten business days of any completed test
or repair work. A tester shall maintain the records for a minimum of three
years.
(Prior Code, § 51.092)
(Ord. passed 6-12-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 POTABLE SPECIFICATIONS.
   The following are potable water specifications:
   (A)   All meters installed by contractor will be Hersey Hot Rod Radio Read
(no exceptions);
   (B)   All meters over one inch will be compound;
   (C)   Meter sizes required: three-quarters, one, two, four, six or eight; no
one and one-half or three-inch meters allowed;
   (D)   Contractors will do all taps and will provide valves with brass
fittings on both sides of road if bore required;
   (E)   All meters one inch and above will require RPZ backflow device above
ground;
   (F)   Per state law, some three-quarter-inch services may require backflow
protection;
   (G)    Three-quarter-, one- and two-inch require setters;
   (H)   Backflow devices will be on pad and in a hot box to prevent freezing;
   (I)   Meter boxes will be PVC type of the appropriate size;
   (J)   Contractors will call town forces to observe tap;
   (K)   No taps will be done weekdays after 4:00 p.m., on weekends or holidays
(town observed);
   (L)   All bores will be encased with steel or ductile iron pipe;
   (M)   Lines will be encased if run across ditches with steel or ductile iron
pipe;
   (N)   Gasket joints on DOT ROWs;
   (O)   Lines will be pressure tested and town forces must observe;
   (P)   DENR requirements for disinfection and town to have BacT results
before service;
   (Q)   Engineer certification required before service activated;
   (R)   Engineer responsible for inspections; and
   (S)   C900 pipe shall be used.
(Prior Code, § 51.105) (Ord. passed 9-10-2009)
**** APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE; CONNECTIONS ****
§ 51.20 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Water shall not be introduced into any premises without application
having first been made to the Town Administrator and proper permit issued by
him or her.
   (B)   Every application must be made by the owner of the property or by an
authorized agent to be benefitted by same according to the form prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 51.015)
§ 51.21 PERMIT ISSUANCE; SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   (1)   Permits shall only be issued upon payment of the prescribed
tapping fee and the prescribed minimum charge for the first month’s service in
advance.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued, nor shall water service be turned on,
until the owner or agent shall pay to the town a security fee of as may be set
by Council for business users and a fee as may be set by Council for
residential users. In the event the customer shall discontinue using water, the
deposited security fee shall be refunded; provided, no amount is then due for
water charges.
   (B)   After the applicant has complied with theses regulations a permit will
be issued to a licensed plumber to do the necessary work beyond the curb line
and within the premises of the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 51.016) (Ord. passed 5-30-1974; Ord. passed 6-24-1982)
§ 51.22 WATER SERVICES; SEPARATE WATER METER AND TAPPING FEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to occupy any
structure for either residential or business use that is not supplied with
water services by the town when the services are immediately available or are
offered by the town.
   (B)   Each separate dwelling or business structure which is connected to the
town water system shall be required to be individually metered; provided,
however, the requirement for separate water metering shall not be application
to approved mobile home parks, multiple-family unit apartments and multiple
business establishments located within a single structure.
   (C)   A water tap fee shall be paid upon the filing of an application for
water services and prior to the installation of a water meter by the town. The
tap fee shall be in an amount as established by the Town Council, which may be
modified from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 51.017) (Ord. passed 10-9-1969; Ord. passed 10-10-1991; Ord.
passed 4-20-1995) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 METERING MULTIPLE DWELLINGS OR BUSINESSES.
   All multiple dwellings or businesses or each residence shall be metered,
unless exempted by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.018) (Ord. passed 5-30-1974)
§ 51.24 CONNECTIONS, FIXTURES TOWN PROPERTY.
   Unless otherwise herein stipulated, the town will furnish all material and
labor necessary to deliver the water from the main to the curb line in front of
the applicant’s premises, and all material and the like shall remain the
property of the town and will be maintained by the town, and all work and
material beyond this point shall be furnished by the applicant and be
maintained by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 51.019)
§ 51.25 CONSTRUCTION OF CONNECTION.
   For all connections up to two inches in diameter, the town will install at
the main a brass corporation cock and lead goose neck up to five-eighths inches
in diameter and up to two inches in diameter, a multiple goose neck with the
necessary five-eighths-inch taps, and at the curb line a brass stop cock and
cast iron curb box and the necessary meter and meter box, if any.
(Prior Code, § 51.020)
§ 51.26 SEPARATE CONNECTION REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Each service shall be provided by the consumer with a separate stop
and waste cock to be used by the consumer as a shut-off in case of accident or
need and all piping used if of iron or steel shall be full card weight and well
galvanized.
   (B)   Only one party shall be served through each curb cut off and each
service shall be served through a separate tap where property abuts the main
line, except for tenant houses a single service and meter may be used, but the
minimum rate for the service will be the same as for separate houses.
(Prior Code, § 51.021)
§ 51.27 CONNECTION INSPECTION.
   Whenever water is introduced into any premises or changes made in water pipe
or fixtures affecting the rate of supply, the plumber shall make a return of
same to the office of the Town Administrator as soon as the work is completed
and the plumbing will then be inspected. No water will be turned on permanently
until the Inspector is satisfied that each and every rule relating to the
subject has been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 51.022)
§ 51.28 DEPOSIT BY TENANTS REQUIRED.
   A non-refundable account activation fee is required to open an account (per
fee schedule).
(Prior Code, § 51.023) (Ord. passed 6-24-1982)
§ 51.29 WATER LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Water line extension. All water lines shall be a minimum of six inches
inside or outside the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Inside corporate limits.
      (1)   The town shall bear the total cost of installing water and sewer
line to street right-of-way line.
      (2)   An exception to this is that, within government or private housing
projects, the cost to the owner shall be established by the Council at the time
application for the service is made.
   (C)   Outside corporate limits. The owner, developer or applicant shall pay
the entire cost of materials, labor and such, of installing water lines.
   (D)   Mobile homes and trailers. The policy is the same as other users
inside or outside the corporate limits.
   (E)   Inside corporate limits. The town will bear all cost in running water
lines to the property line of applicant.
   (F)   Outside corporate limits.
      (1)   The town will install and bear cost of materials to corporate
limits line only.
      (2)   Materials and labor cost beyond corporate limits line shall be
borne by the applicant.
   (G)   Town property. Any and all water lines running beyond the corporate
limits line shall become the property of the town, except where lines are on
private property or are not accompanied by an easement.
(Prior Code, § 51.024) (Ord. passed 5-30-1974)
**** RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING ****
§ 51.45 WATER SOLD ON METER BASIS ONLY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All water, unless herein otherwise provided for, shall be sold by
measure for which purpose the town will install and maintain a proper meter,
but the right is reserved by the town to omit the meter for a period as it may
deem desirable, in which event the service shall be paid for at the minimum
meter rate.
   (B)   In the event it should be determined that a meter is showing a
defective or erroneous reading, the water consumer shall be charged for the
average of the last three months within which the meter was working.
(Prior Code, § 51.040) (Ord. passed 5-30-1974)
§ 51.46 USE OF WATER FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   Where unmetered services are introduced for purposes of fire protection no
charge for water so used will be made other than the service rate herein
provided for, but the services shall be separate and apart from all services
for other purposes and no use shall be made of the fire protection connections
for any other than the service intended.
(Prior Code, § 51.041) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.47 TAPPING CHARGES.
   For making taps and furnishings all material necessary to deliver the
service to the curb line, including the meter, the following tapping charges
will be made: the charges are as set by Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.042) (Ord. passed 6-4-1982)
§ 51.48 DISCOUNTS FOR VACANCIES.
   Discounts for vacancies of not less than one month will be allowed;
provided, notice is given at time of vacancy and the water is shut off during
vacancy.
(Prior Code, § 51.043)
§ 51.49 NECESSARY STOPPAGE; NO DISCOUNTS.
   No person shall be entitled to discount or damages for any stoppage for
purposes of additions, accidents or repairs to the water lines nor for any
stoppage whatever should it be deemed necessary to interrupt the service.
(Prior Code, § 51.044)
§ 51.50 SCHEDULE OF WATER RATES.
   From and after the adoption of this schedule, the charge for the use of
water supplied by the town shall be as follows: the rates are as set by
Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.045) (Ord. passed 6-30-1980; Ord. passed 6-24-1982; Ord.
passed 6-21-1983)
§ 51.51 BILLS DUE AND PAYABLE; DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue water and sewer
service to a customer for non-payment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid.
   (B)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue service to customers by
reason of non-payment of bills only after notice and a meaningful opportunity
to be heard on disputed bills is provided. All bills shall contain, in addition
to the title, address and telephone number of the town official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect that:
      (1)   All monthly bills are due and payable on or before the penalty due
date indicated on the face of the bill. Service shall be discontinued for non-
payment on the cut-off date shown on the face of the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by the penalty due date, a penalty as
established by the town budget ordinance will be added if paid prior to the
cut-off date; and
      (3)   Failure to receive a bill does not alter these rules.
   (C)   Any customer disputing the accuracy of a bill shall have the right to
a hearing. At that time, he or she may be represented in person and by counsel
or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or in writing
his or her complaint and contentions to the town official in charge of billing.
This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service not be
discontinued and shall have authority to make a final determination of the
customer’s complaint.
   (D)   In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or a request for a
hearing as provided above, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
(Prior Code, § 51.047)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined a sum not to exceed $50 or shall be imprisoned in
jail not to exceed 30 days in the discretion of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 51.999)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Application and definitions
Residential Sources
   
52.15   Approved containers required for solid waste
   
52.16   Burning or burying solid waste
   
52.17   Accumulations prohibited
   
52.18   Containers required; use thereof
   
52.19   Pre-collection practices
   
52.20   Collection schedule
   
52.21   Unlawful use of containers
   
52.22   Special or bulk collections
   
52.23   Removal of dead animals
   
52.24   Collection fee
   
52.25   Out-of-town service
Small Business and Commercial Sources
   
52.40   Designation of small business sources; containers; fees
   
52.41   Collection from commercial sources
   
52.42   Recyclable materials dumpster
   
52.43   Transfer of ownership
   
52.44   Vandalism
 
   
52.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 52.01 APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED CONTAINER. A container not to exceed 96 gallons in capacity with a
tight-fitting, water-proof lid, which will hold any and all solids or liquids
inside of the container.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS. Scrap building material from construction,
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign or
other structure, including, but not limited to, excavated earth, tree stumps,
rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material
used in construction or the containers or wrappings thereof.
   COMMERCIAL SOURCES. All structures, establishments, enterprises and non-
residential structures or activities which generate solid waste, including
commercial, non-profit, industrial and any other activities or structures which
are not residential as defined herein, and which have not been designated a
small business source by the Director of Public Works.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses and recognizable industrial byproducts, but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   RECYCLABLE CORRUGATED CARDBOARD.
      (1)   Clean, unwaxed paper or boxes made from thick layered paper which
is formed with grooves and ridges typically used for the shipping and storage
of products and merchandise.
      (2)   The term CLEAN shall mean free from contaminants including, but not
limited to, plastic bags, liners, film, Styrofoam packaging material and wood.
      (3)   Cardboard soaked by oil, grease, food matter or any type of
excrement is not considered recyclable.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Those materials which are capable of being recycled
and which would otherwise be processed or disposed of as solid waste, as
defined by G.S. § 130A-290(a)(26).
   REFUSE. All non-putrescible wastes.
   RESIDENTIAL SOURCES. Include single-family, multi-family and mobile home
dwellings or structures which generate solid waste, but shall not include
nursing homes, rest homes, hospitals, dormitories, hotels, motels and other
similar structures or activities.
   SMALL BUSINESS SOURCES. A source which is not residential or commercial but
which has been designated a small business source by the Director of Public
Works and which meets the requirements set forth herein.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash and other discarded solid
materials including solid waste materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants.
   YARD WASTE. Tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery, weeds, plants, grass or pine
straw.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992; Ord. passed 4-8-1993; Ord. passed
- -)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of trash and garbage, see G.S. § 153A-132.1
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 130A-290(a)(26)
**** RESIDENTIAL SOURCES ****
§ 52.15 APPROVED CONTAINERS REQUIRED FOR SOLID WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any solid
waste of any kind on any public or private property, except in approved
containers or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.15) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 BURNING OR BURYING SOLID WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire or to bury any solid waste for the
purpose of disposal.
(Prior Code, § 93.16) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 ACCUMULATIONS PROHIBITED.
   All garbage, refuse and solid waste shall be collected and placed in
containers as required by this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to permit garbage, refuse or solid waste to accumulate or remain on any
premises longer than is reasonably necessary to remove and deposit same in
approved containers, as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 93.17) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 CONTAINERS REQUIRED; USE THEREOF.
   (A)   All occupants of residences and owners of small business sources shall
deposit all garbage and refuse in containers approved by the Public Works
Director and place the containers adjacent to the street for collection on days
designated by the town for pickup. All garbage and refuse must be deposited in
plastic bags which must be placed in the container approved by the Public Works
Director. Garbage and refuse not placed in a plastic bag will not be collected.
All occupants of residences shall deposit all recyclable materials and
recyclables in recyclable containers and place the containers adjacent to the
street for collection on days designated by the town for pickup of recyclables.
Recyclable containers shall be for the purpose of recyclable material only.
Other material placed in the recyclable container will not be collected.
   (B)   Not more than two approved containers shall be placed within five feet
of curbside or edge of the street or in a location approved by the Public Works
Director but shall not be placed on the street.
   (C)   The containers shall be placed in the required location for collection
no earlier than 7:00 p.m. on the day preceding the designated pickup day and
shall be removed from the curbside location no later than 7:00 p.m. on the
designated pickup day. Except during these hours, the roll-out carts and all
other refuse containers shall be kept in a location no closer to the street
than the front line of the residence.
   (D)   The following materials shall not be placed on or within the
containers: rocks; dirt; sod; gasoline; oil; flammable liquids; solvents; hot
coals; ashes; or building materials scraps. Violation of these prohibitions
will be treated as abuse and improper use of the container.
   (E)   In order to protect the public health, ensure adequate solid waste
collection and prevent undue hardships to the aged, handicapped or disabled,
the Director of Public Works is authorized to vary the requirements of this
section relating to placement for collection of the containers and recyclable
containers after conducting a thorough investigation and finding that there is
no person living within a particular residential unit who is physically capable
of placing the container in the required location for pickup.
   (F)   Garbage will only be collected from plastic bags that are placed
within the container approved by the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 93.18) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   All garbage and refuse shall have the liquid drained therefrom before
it is placed in the container for collection.
   (B)   All recyclables shall be separated from other garbage and refuse and
shall be sorted and placed in the recyclable containers provided for the pickup
of recyclables.
   (C)   Ashes and cinders shall be placed in a separate container provided for
that purpose, and no ashes shall be deposited in any container until they are
cold.
   (D)   No garbage or refuse which is not recyclable shall be mixed with
recyclables.
(Prior Code, § 93.19) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   Garbage and refuse will be collected by the town or its designee according
to a collection schedule maintained in the administration office. The schedule
may be periodically revised as deemed necessary by the town. Collections will
not be made on town holidays, and the next collection following a holiday will
be on the next scheduled collection day.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992)
§ 52.21 UNLAWFUL USE OF CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, displace or to otherwise
interfere with garbage containers or the contents thereof. It shall be unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation to place solid waste in a container without
the authorization of the owner of the container. It shall be unlawful for any
person to place solid waste generated by a commercial, non-profit or industrial
establishment or enterprise in a residential container unless the commercial,
non-profit or industrial establishment or enterprise has been designated a
small business source. It shall be unlawful for any person other than a duly
authorized law enforcement officer, the town or its designee or a person
authorized by the owner or authorized user of a waste container to inspect or
remove any contents from a container. It shall be unlawful for any person to
get into a container, except for the purpose of cleaning the same. The
provisions of this section apply to all solid waste containers including
recyclable containers and commercial containers.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 SPECIAL OR BULK COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The Public Works Department of the town will not be responsible for
the collection of any of the following: dirt; turf; rock; building materials;
trade waste; wallpaper; lumber shavings; brick; concrete; metal; shingles;
fencing materials; tree stumps; or other like materials or byproducts. None of
the above type materials shall be placed in any residential container, at the
curb or at garbage collection points for collection by the town.
   (B)   Rubbish such as worn-out furniture, refrigerators, stoves and the like
will be picked up by the town on the first Thursday of the following months:
February; May; August; and November. These items shall be placed behind the
curb for collection.
   (C)   Limbs, leaves, grass clippings, pine straw and other vegetative waste
will be collected one day per week as designated by the town. Non-yard waste
items will not be collected with yard waste. All residents will receive a 90-
gallon poly-kart for yard waste disposal. Uncontainerized yard waste will not
be collected.
(Prior Code, § 93.22) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992; Ord. passed 9-1-2003)
§ 52.23 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Dead animals will be removed from the premises of any residence or small
business source upon notice to the Public Works Director of the existence of
the dead animals.
(Prior Code, § 93.23) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992)
§ 52.24 COLLECTION FEE.
   (A)   A solid waste collection fee is hereby levied against all residences
and small business sources within the town. This fee is not optional and shall
be levied against the agent responsible for each residential water and sewer
account, whether the collection service is utilized or not. The fee shall be
billed monthly with the regular water and sewer billing.
   (B)   Amount of the fee shall be established by the Town Council as part of
the budget for each fiscal year’s operation.
(Prior Code, § 93.24) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992)
§ 52.25 OUT-OF-TOWN SERVICE.
   There will be no out-of-town solid waste service, with the exception of the
current out of town solid waste customers.
(Prior Code, § 93.25) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992)
**** SMALL BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL SOURCES ****
§ 52.40 DESIGNATION OF SMALL BUSINESS SOURCES; CONTAINERS; FEES.
   (A)   Designation of small business sources. If a source of solid waste
which is not a “residential source”, as defined in §
52.01 of this chapter, and if the source generates not more than 180 gallons of
solid waste per week and otherwise meets the requirements of this subchapter,
then the Director of Public Works may designate the source a “small business
source”, and solid waste will be collected from the source as if it were a
residential source.
(Prior Code, § 93.40)
   (B)   Use of containers. The small business source shall be required to
abide by the provisions of §§
52.18 through
52.22 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.41)
   (C)   Refuse collection fees. A small business source shall pay the monthly
residential refuse collection fees as provided in §
52.24 of this chapter, which fees shall be billed monthly with the Water and
Sewer Account.
(Prior Code, § 93.42)
(Ord. passed 9-10-1992)
§ 52.41 COLLECTION FROM COMMERCIAL SOURCES.
   If a source of solid waste is not a “residential source”, as defined in §
52.01 of this chapter, or a “small business source”, as defined in §
52.01 of this chapter, then the Director of Public Works may designate the
source a “commercial source”. All commercial source users shall be responsible
for their own solid waste collection.
(Prior Code, § 93.55) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992; Ord. passed 5-10-2001)
§ 52.42 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS DUMPSTER.
   Dumpsters are at the owner’s expense between the owner and the collector.
(Prior Code, § 93.59)
§ 52.43 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   Upon collection of recyclable cardboard by the town, ownership of all
acceptable recyclable materials is immediately transferred to the town. By
depositing recyclable cardboard in a designated dumpster, approved container or
at a community collection site, the depositor agrees to waive and relinquish
all claims to any profits, benefits or other material gains as may be realized,
present or future from the sale or disposal of the materials by the town.
(Prior Code, § 93.61) (Ord. passed 4-8-1993)
§ 52.44 VANDALISM.
   It shall be unlawful to cause damage to any dumpster, approved container or
community collection site which has been designated by the town for the
collection, storage and disposal of recyclable cardboard. Violations shall
constitute both a civil and criminal offense and shall be punishable under law
by fine and/or imprisonment, as hereafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 93.62) (Ord. passed 4-8-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate civil
offense and is punishable by assessment of a fine or penalty as set forth
hereunder. Violations shall also constitute a misdemeanor in accordance with
the general statutes of the state.
   (B)   Exceptions to the provisions of this chapter may be granted by a duly
authorized representative of the town only in those instances wherein written
documentation is submitted which clearly established:
      (1)   The merchant, business or commercial property owner has entered
into a binding contract with a third-party hauler to collect and dispose of the
recyclable, corrugated cardboard prior to the adoption of this chapter; or
      (2)   The collection and disposal of recyclable, corrugated cardboard in
a manner other than that which has been stipulated by this chapter will
contribute to the town’s recycling program meeting county and state mandated
coals.
   (C)   It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to demonstrate to the town
that approval of an exception is justified based up on satisfying either of
divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above.
   (D)   For purposes of determining the amount of fine or penalty to assess
for failure to comply with this chapter, each individual service day violation
shall constitute a separate violation.
   (E)   Fines and penalties shall be as follows:
      (1)   Failure to lock or adequately secure dumpster or approved
container:
         (a)   First offense: written warning;
         (b)   Second offense: $25;
         (c)   Third offense: $50; and
         (d)   Subsequent offenses: $100.
      (2)   Negligent or willful contamination of the town’s solid waste
stream, either by disposal of recyclable, corrugated cardboard in solid waste
containers or by disposal of not-recyclable non-cardboard materials in
designated recyclable, corrugated cardboard dumpsters, containers or community
collection sites:
         (a)   First offense: written warning;
         (b)   Second offense: $50;
         (c)   Third offense: $100; and
         (d)   Subsequent offenses: $200.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. passed 9-10-1992; Ord. passed 4-8-1993)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING RULES
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Obstruction of streets
   
70.02   Moving vehicle of another prohibited
   
70.03   Bus traffic
   
70.04   Speed limits
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall stop in any street, except for the purpose of parking
as prescribed in this chapter, unless the stop is made necessary by the
approach of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession
which is given the right-of-way by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the
lowering of railway gates, by the giving of traffic signals, the passing of
some other vehicle or a pedestrian or by some emergency and, in any case
covered by these exceptions, the vehicles shall not stop so as to obstruct any
footway, pedestrian aisle, safety zone crossing or street intersection if the
same can be avoided.
   (B)   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere
with the passage of public conveyance or other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 MOVING VEHICLE OF ANOTHER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by the person into any prohibited
area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 BUS TRAFFIC.
   All common carriers operating under state franchise for the purpose of
transporting passengers shall pick up and discharge their passengers at the
place designated by the common carriers and operated by their duly authorized
agent and commonly known as the bus station.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) (Ord. passed 4-9-1959) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating a
motor vehicle in the town to drive in excess of 20 mph in a business district
or in excess of 25 mph on any other street in town which is not part of the
state highway system or in excess of any of the speed limits set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule I, of this traffic code.
   (B)   Speed limits set pursuant to this section shall be effective when
appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected upon the part of the
streets affected.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. passed 4-25-1958; Ord. passed 7-12-2019) Penalty,
see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Speed limits, see G.S. § 20-141
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of §
70.04 of this traffic code. Violations of §
70.04 of this traffic code shall constitute an infraction in accordance with
G.S. Chapter 20, specifically G.S. §§ 20-141 and 20-176.
   (B)   Violations of
Chapter 71 of this traffic code. Whoever shall violate any provision of
Chapter 71 for which no other penalty is provided shall be, upon conviction,
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $50 or imprisonment
not to exceed 30 days. Each day that any of the provisions of this traffic code
are violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 72.99)
   (C)   Violations of §
71.04(D) of this traffic code.
      (1)   The offender is subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $25.
Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, criminal penalties for violation of §
71.04(C) of this traffic code, as set out in G.S. § 14-4, are hereby removed.
Civil penalties may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of
debt or may be collected in other amounts as prescribed herein with the
prescribed time following the issuance of notice or citation for the violation.
      (2)   Whenever a member of the Police Department finds that any of the
provisions of §
71.04(D) of this traffic code are being or have been violated by the owner or
operator of any vehicle, the officer shall notify the owner or operator of the
vehicle of the violation by conspicuously attaching to the vehicle a parking
violation notice or citation in a form as the Finance Director of the town may
direct.
      (3)   The parking violation notice or citation shall, among other things:
         (a)   State upon its face the amount of the penalty for the specific
violation if the penalty is paid within 48 hours from and after the violation;
         (b)   Notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalty within 30
days from the violation shall subject the offender to an additional late
penalty in the amount of $20;
         (c)   Notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalty within the
prescribed time may subject the offender to a civil action in the nature of the
debt for the stated penalty, plus an additional penalty in the amount of $35,
together with the cost of the action to be taxed by the Court;
         (d)   Further provide that the offender may answer the parking
citation by mailing the citation and the stated penalty to 316 East Murray
Street, Wallace, NC 28466, or may pay the amount at the Town Hall at the same
address and that, upon payment the case or claim and right of action by the
town, will be deemed compromised and settled; and
         (e)   The penalty must be paid within 48 hours of the issuance of the
citation. The notice shall further state that if the parking violation citation
is not cleared within 48 hours, Court action, by the filing of a civil
complaint for collection of the penalty, may be taken. As used upon the parking
violation citation, the word CLEARED shall mean either:
            1.   Payment;
            2.   Arrangement for payment to be made; or
            3.   A prima facie showing that the parking citation was received
as a result of mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect.
      (4)   The Town Manager or designee is authorized to accept payments in
full and final settlement of the claim or claims and/or right or rights of
action which the town may have to enforce the penalty of civil action in the
nature of debt. Acceptance of a penalty shall be deemed a full and final
release of any and all claims or right of action arising out of contended
violations.
      (5)   Penalties shall be as follows.
         (a)   A delinquent penalty of $20, in addition to the $25 penalty
imposed for payment within 48 hours, shall apply in those cases in which the
penalties as set forth above have not been paid within 30 days from the date of
the violation.
         (b)   A penalty of $35, in addition to the $25 penalty imposed for
payment within 48 hours and the $20 delinquent penalty, shall apply to those
cases in which the penalties as set forth above have not been paid within the
prescribed period of time and in which a civil action has been instituted.
      (6)   All penalties paid to the town or as may be recovered in a civil
action in the nature of debt as herein provided shall be paid into the General
Fund of the town at a time and under regulations as may be prescribed by the
Finance Director.
   (D)   Violations of §§
72.01 through
72.07 of this traffic code.
      (1)   Any person violating the motor vehicle laws of the state, which
shall also apply to golf carts registered under §§
72.01 through
72.07 of this traffic code, shall be charged accordingly and shall be subject
to the penalties prescribed in state law for any such violation. See G.S.
Chapter 20.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly allows a driver less than 16 years of age
to operate a golf cart shall be charged and subject to the penalties prescribed
in state law for contributing to the delinquency of a minor.
      (3)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
72.01 through
72.07 of this traffic code or failing to comply with any of its requirements
shall be required to pay a civil violation in the amount of $50.
      (4)   Any person violating the town’s parking ordinances shall be subject
to the penalties outlined for parking violations in §§
72.01 through
72.07 of this traffic code.
      (5)   Operating a golf cart under the influence of an impairing substance
(such as alcohol or drugs) on a public street is a violation of state law, and
is punishable as provided therein. See G.S. Chapter 20.
      (6)   The Police Chief or designee may refuse to register and issue a
permit for the operation of a golf cart or may immediately revoke a previously
issued permit, if the registered golf cart and/or the owner of the golf cart is
involved in three or more violations of §§
72.01 through
72.07 of this traffic code and/or violations of state law within a three-year
time period. Said revocation and/or denial of a permit shall be effective for
one year.
      (7)   The Police Chief or designee may refuse to register and issue a
permit for the operation of a golf cart or may immediately revoke a previously
issued permit, if the registered golf cart and/or the owner of the golf cart is
charged with operating a golf cart under the influence of an impairing
substance, aiding, and abetting the operation of the golf cart under the
influence of an impairing substance or operating a golf cart in a careless and
reckless manner. Said revocation and/or denial of a permit shall be effective
for one year, unless the charge is dismissed or the owner and/or operator is
acquitted, in which event the permit shall either be immediately reinstated or
the application for the permit shall be approved if the conditions of the
ordinance have been met.
      (8)   All revocation periods shall be effective from the date of the
notification of revocation letter, provided that the revoked registration decal
or plate has been removed within 14 days of the date of notification. If the
revoked registration decal is not removed within 14 days, then the revocation
shall be effective; however, the one-year period shall not begin until the date
the registration decal/plate is surrendered to or seized by the Police
Department.
   (E)   Violations of
Chapter 73, Schedule I, of this traffic code. Violations shall constitute an
infraction in accordance with G.S. Chapter 20, specifically G.S. §§ 20-141 and
20-176.
(Prior Code, Chapter 73, Schedule I)
   (F)   Violations of
Chapter 73, Schedule III, of this traffic code. Any driver violating
Chapter 73, Schedule III, of this traffic code shall be charged with a moving
violation pursuant to G.S. Chapter 20.
(Prior Code, Chapter 73, Schedule III)
   (G)   Violations of
Chapter 73, Schedule VI, of this traffic code. Any person violating the
provisions of
Chapter 73, Schedule VI, of this traffic code shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished by a fine of not more than $50 or imprisoned for a
period not to exceed 30 days or both within the discretion of the Court.
(Prior Code, Chapter 73, Schedule VI)
(Ord. passed 7-10-1987; Ord. passed 7-12-2019; Ord. passed 5-14-2020; Ord.
passed 6-11-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 20 and §§ 14-4, 20-141 and 20-176
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Parking prohibited in designated places
   
71.02   Parking prohibited at certain times
   
71.03   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
71.04   Limited parking
   
71.05   Parking prohibitions generally
   
71.06   Taxicab stands
Manner of Parking
   
71.20   Parallel to curb
   
71.21   Backed up to curb
   
71.22   Stopping on left side of curb in business district
   
71.23   Parking within lines
   
71.24   Angle parking
Statutory reference:
   Authority of cities as to parking, see G.S. § 160A-301
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 71.01 PARKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED PLACES.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice thereof or the
curbing has been painted yellow in lieu of the signs, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets described in
Chapter 74, Schedule II, of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 PARKING PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN TIMES.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed in each block giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle between those hours upon any of those
streets unless other hours are designated; provided that, this section shall
not apply to automobiles or other vehicles parked on those streets when the
owners thereof are at work in the building or on the premises in front of or
near which the automobile or other vehicles are parked.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle on roadway. No person shall
stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when the
storage is not incident to the bonafide use and operation of the automobiles or
other vehicles; and
      (4)   Storage of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has
been disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight
from one vehicle to another.
(Prior Code, § 72.10)
   (B)   Parked vehicle for advertisement. No person shall stand or park on any
street any vehicle for the primary purpose of advertising.
(Prior Code, § 72.11)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   Two hours. When signs are placed, erected or installed in each block
giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours
at any time of any day, except Sunday and public holidays, upon any of the
streets described in
Chapter 74, Schedule III, of this traffic code and the changing of the position
of a vehicle from one point directly to another point within the same block
shall be deemed one continuous parking period.
   (B)   One hour. When signs are placed, erected or installed in each block
giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than one hour
at any time, except Sunday and public holidays, upon any of those streets and
the changing of the positions of a vehicle from one point directly to another
point within the same block shall be deemed one continuous parking period.
   (C)   Fifteen minutes. When signs are placed, erected or installed in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than 15
minutes at any time upon those streets, and the changing of the position of a
vehicle from one point directly to another point within the same block shall be
deemed as one continuous parking period.
   (D)   Parking spaces designated for law enforcement officers.
      (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-301(d), when signs are placed, erected or
installed designating such parking spaces as restricted for authorized law
enforcement vehicles, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in such
space, unless that person is an active-duty law enforcement officer in a
designated law enforcement vehicle, in the following area: Walmart Supercenter
located at 5625 S NC 41 Hwy, Wallace, NC 28466.
      (2)   The owner of a vehicle parked in violation of this section shall be
deemed to have appointed any appropriate law enforcement officer as his or her
agent for the purpose of arranging for the transportation and safe storage of
such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. passed 2-13-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-301(d)
§ 71.05 PARKING PROHIBITIONS GENERALLY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a
police officer or traffic-control device in any of the following places:
   (A)   On the sidewalk;
   (B)   Within an intersection;
   (C)   On a crosswalk;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (E)   Grade crossing approaches; no vehicle shall be parked on either side
of any street approaching a grade crossing within 50 feet of the closest rail;
provided that, where existing permanent structures are located along the street
and closer than 50 feet, parking may be permitted in front of the structures,
unless otherwise prohibited, if the parking does not interfere with the view in
either direction of an approaching locomotive or train;
   (F)   Along side or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping or standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (G)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at the
edge or curb of a street; and
   (H)   Within ten feet of any water hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   Two hours. When signs are placed, erected or installed in each block
giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours
at any time of any day, except Sunday and public holidays upon any of the
streets described in
Chapter 74, Schedule III, of this traffic code and the changing of the position
of a vehicle from one point directly to another point within the same block
shall be deemed one continuous parking period.
   (B)   One hour. When signs are placed, erected or installed in each block
giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than one hour
at any time, except Sunday and public holidays, upon any of those streets and
the changing of the positions of a vehicle from one point directly to another
point within the same block shall be deemed one continuous parking period.
   (C)   Fifteen minutes. When signs are placed, erected or installed in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than 15
minutes at any time upon those streets, and the changing of the position of a
vehicle from one point directly to another point within the same block shall be
deemed as one continuous parking period.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
**** MANNER OF PARKING ****
§ 71.20 PARALLEL TO CURB.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this chapter and where the street is not
marked to show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park parallel to the
curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.21 BACKED UP TO CURB.
   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to curb, except when actually
loading or unloading.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.22 STOPPING ON LEFT SIDE OF CURB IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district; except, on one-way streets, vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.23 PARKING WITHIN LINES.
   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces
for cars the same shall be parked between the lines.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.24 ANGLE PARKING.
   Automobiles and other vehicles shall be parked at an angle of approximately
45 degrees with the curb on those streets or parts of streets described in
Chapter 74, Schedule V, of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
72.01   Authority to regulate
   
72.02   Purpose
   
72.03   Liability; insurance
   
72.04   Definitions
   
72.05   Required equipment
   
72.06   Registration and permit requirements
   
72.07   Rules and regulations
**** GOLF CARTS ****
§ 72.01 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-300.6, the town is authorized, by ordinance, to
regulate the operation of golf carts on any public street, road or highway
within its municipal limits or on any property owned or leased by the town
where the speed limit is 35 mph or less.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-300.6
§ 72.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to establish a golf cart ordinance
within the town to promote the health, safety and welfare of person(s)
operating golf cart(s) within the town and to protect the safety of their
passengers and other users of roads. To this end, the operation of golf carts
must comply with applicable state laws and town regulations pertaining to the
operation of traditional motor vehicles and must also comply with the specific
provisions included in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2020)
§ 72.03 LIABILITY; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Liability disclaimer. This establishment of a golf cart ordinance is
necessary to address the interests of public safety. Golf carts are not
designed or manufactured to be used on public streets, roads and highways
(hereinafter “road(s)”) and the town in no way advocates or endorses the
operation of golf carts on roads. The town, by regulating such operation, is
merely trying to address obvious safety issues, and adoption of this subchapter
is not to be relied upon as a determination that operation on roads is safe or
advisable if done in accordance with this subchapter. All persons who operate
or ride upon carts on roads do so at their own risk and peril and must be
observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including
their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians. The town has no
liability under any theory of liability for permitting golf carts to be
operated on roads under special legislation granted by the state legislature.
Any person who operates a cart must procure liability insurance sufficient to
cover the risks involved in using a cart on the roads of the town.
   (B)   Liability insurance. No golf cart shall be operated on any public
street within the town without liability insurance coverage being provided for
that golf cart. Any person who owns a golf cart that is operated within the
town shall be responsible for procuring liability insurance sufficient to cover
the risk involved in operating a golf cart on public streets.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Town Chief of Police or designee.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license issued to operate a motor vehicle by North
Carolina or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph. See G.S. § 20-4.01(12a).
   OPERATE. To drive or be in physical control of a golf cart that is moving or
has its engine on.
   OPERATOR. Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid driver’s
license may operate a golf cart on roads.
   REGISTRATION PERIOD. July 1 through June 30 of each year.
   ROAD. Any public street, road or highway within the corporate limits of the
town, open to the general public and whose posted speed limit is 25 mph or
less, public street, road or highway within the town where the speed limit is
35 mph or less.
   TOWN. The Town of Wallace, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 20-4.01(12a)
§ 72.05 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to all other requirements stated herein, all golf carts
operated within the town shall have the following equipment installed on them
and the equipment shall be visible and/or operational at all times:
      (1)   Two red reflectors of a diameter of not less than three inches,
which are so designed and located as to height and which are maintained so that
each reflector is visible for at least 500 feet under normal atmospheric
conditions;
      (2)   Slow moving vehicle warning sign attached to the rear;
      (3)   Rearview mirror or side view mirrors, mounted on each side of the
golf cart;
      (4)   Seat belts (one per seat, a lap belt only, is required);
      (5)   A parking brake;
      (6)   A windshield; and
      (7)   Must be limited to a maximum of three rows of seats.
   (B)   Golf carts registered for nighttime operation shall also have the
following equipment installed on them and the equipment shall be visible and/or
operational while operating before sunrise and after sunset:
      (1)   Headlamps which comply with G.S. § 20-129(b);
      (2)   Rear lamps which comply with G.S. § 20-129(d);
      (3)   Brake lights which comply with G.S. § 20-129(g);
      (4)   Front and rear turn signals which comply with G.S. § 20-125.1; and
      (5)   One white or clear flashing LED or strobe light, which shall be
mounted at the top and facing to the rear of the golf cart.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 20-125.1 and 20-129(b), (d) and (g)
§ 72.06 REGISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No golf cart shall be operated on any public street within the town or
on any property owned or leased by the town unless the golf cart has first been
permitted with the town as required herein.
   (B)   All golf cart owners must complete a golf cart registration
application and submit it to the Police Chief or designee prior to being
eligible for an inspection.
   (C)   In order to register a golf cart and secure an annual permit for the
town, the owner and golf cart must meet the following basic requirements.
      (1)   The owner must be at least 16 years old and possess a valid
driver’s license.
      (2)   The owner must possess and maintain liability insurance in an
amount not less than required by state law for traditional motor vehicles
operated on public streets in the state.
      (3)   The owner must provide proof of said liability insurance.
      (4)   The owner must provide proof of ownership.
      (5)   The owner must pay the registration fee in the amount of $50.
      (6)   The owner must have completed a waiver of liability, releasing the
town from liability.
      (7)   The golf cart must not have been modified to exceed a speed of 20
mph.
      (8)   The golf cart must have an identifiable identification number.
   (D)    In order to register a golf cart with the town, a golf cart must have
all of the required equipment and safety features listed in §
72.05 of this chapter.
   (E)   The owner must pay the annual registration fee of $50, which may be
amended with notice by the town. Registration fees will not be prorated.
   (F)   All fees will be submitted to the Police Department prior to the
issuance or renewal of the permit along with the permit application itself. The
golf cart shall be inspected by the Police Chief or designee for compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter. The registration and permit shall be
renewed annually thereafter in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Upon successfully passing an inspection, the golf cart will be
assigned a registration card along with a decal or plate, which is valid for no
more than one year. All owners of registered golf carts are required to
schedule annual inspections between May 1 and June 30 of each year. All permits
will expire on June 30 of each year; provided, however, it shall be lawful to
operate a registered golf cart until July 15 of the year of expiration.
   (H)   Prior to the issuance of an initial permit or annual renewal the owner
and will also sign an acknowledgment that he or she has read, understands and
will abide by the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Once registered, the registration card, along with the registration
decal or plate, must be located on the golf cart and available for review at
all times.
   (J)   All golf cart operators must present a valid driver’s license while
operating a golf cart on a public road.
   (K)   Lost or stolen permits are the responsibility of the owner and must be
replaced before the golf cart is operated on a public road.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2020)
§ 72.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts shall not be operated on or alongside a public road, street
or highway with a posted speed limit greater than 25 mph.
   (B)   Golf carts may cross a road with a posted speed limit greater than 25
mph. However, once this segment of road has been traversed, the golf cart is
still required to travel only on or along a roadway with a speed limit of 25
mph or less. Golf carts must cross in a manner that is the most direct route in
order to decrease crossing distance, such as no riding along a road or crossing
at an angle. Golf carts must also cross the road only at controlled
intersections.
   (C)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be responsible for all
liability associated with operation of the golf cart and must have liability
insurance coverage which will cover the use of a golf cart in an amount not
less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on public highways
in the state.
   (D)   (1)   Each golf cart operator must, at all times, have the following
documents on the golf cart while it is in operation on public roads, streets or
highways:
         (a)   Golf cart registration card;
         (b)   Proof of liability insurance;
         (c)   Proof of ownership; and
         (d)   A completed waiver of liability, releasing the town from
liability that may arise as a result of operation of a golf cart inside the
town.
      (2)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be at least 16 years of
age or older. No person may operate a golf cart unless that person is licensed
to drive upon the public streets, roads and highways of the state and, then,
only in accordance with such valid driver’s license. Golf cart operators must
carry their driver’s license on their person at all times while operating a
golf cart on public roads.
   (E)   Any person who operates a golf cart on public streets, roads or
highways must adhere to all applicable state and local laws, regulations and
ordinances, including, but not limited to, those banning the possession and use
of alcoholic beverages and all other illegal drugs. In addition, no golf cart
containing any open container of alcohol shall be operated on public roads.
   (F)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all applicable state
and local laws, including all applicable traffic laws, which governs the
operation of the motor vehicle.
   (G)   An operator may not allow the number of people in the golf cart at any
one time to exceed the maximum capacity specified by the manufacturer. The
operator shall not allow passengers to ride on any part of the golf cart not
designed to carry passengers, such as the part of the golf cart designed to
carry golf bags.
   (H)   No golf cart may be operated in a careless or reckless manner. In no
instance shall a golf cart be operated at a speed greater than reasonable and
prudent for the existing conditions and in no instance at a speed of greater
than 20 mph.
   (I)   Golf carts must be operated at the right edge of the roadway and must
yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (J)   Golf carts must park in designated spaces in such a manner that
multiple golf carts can utilize the space. All parking rules and limits apply.
No parking on sidewalks is allowed.
   (K)   Seatbelts must be worn by all golf cart drivers and passengers while
the golf cart is in motion.
   (L)   Golf carts without lights may be operated only during daylight hours.
Golf carts meeting the requirements set forth above in §
72.05 of this chapter and registered for nighttime operation may operate from
5:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
   (M)   (1)   Operators of golf carts registered for limited use, such as for
clear-visibility daytime use only, and lacking stop and turn signal indicators
must follow G.S. § 20-154 and use proper hand signals to indicate the intention
to start, stop or turn by extending the hand and arm from and beyond the left
side of the vehicle as hereinafter set forth:
         (a)   Left turn: hand and arm horizontal, forefinger pointing;
         (b)   Right turn: hand and arm pointed upward; and
         (c)   Stop: hand and arm pointed downward.
      (2)   All hand and arm signals shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle and all signals shall be maintained or given continuously for the last
100 feet traveled prior to stopping or making a turn.
   (N)   The operation of golf carts in the following circumstances is exempt
and is not subject to the provisions of this section:
      (1)   The operation of golf carts on private property, with the consent
of the owner;
      (2)   The operation of golf carts on private streets;
      (3)   The use of a golf cart in connection with a parade, a festival or
other special event provided the consent of the sponsor is obtained, the Chief
of Police or designee is notified and provided the golf cart is only used
during such event; and
      (4)   The use of golf carts by town personnel, other governmental
agencies and/or public service agencies on official business.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 20-154
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Left turns prohibited
      
III.   Stop signs
      
IV.   Yield signs
      
V.   Stop lights
      
VI.   Truck routes
      
VII.   Three- and four-way intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed limits.
 
Location                                                        mph Ord. Passed
East Southerland Street from East Railroad Street to Norwood    20  6-8-1965
Street
Norwood Street from southern corporate limits to northern       40  6-11-1964
corporate limits
West Main Street (NC 41) from Raleigh Street to Railroad
Street, thence along East Main Street (NC 41) to Norwood Street 20  6-11-1964
(US 117)
West Southerland Street (SR 1173) from Raleigh Street to West   20  6-8-1965
Railroad Street
 
   (B)   Effective. Speed limits set pursuant to this schedule shall be
effective when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected upon the
part of the streets affected.
(Prior Code, Chapter 73, Schedule I) (Ord. passed 7-12-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. LEFT TURNS PROHIBITED.
 
Description                                                      Ord. Passed
Left turns off Main Street onto Railroad Street, north and south 6-10-1981
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 73, Schedule II) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Authority to regulate.
      (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 20-158, local authorities, with reference to
highways under their jurisdiction, are authorized to control vehicles at
intersections by erecting or installing stop signs requiring vehicles to come
to a complete stop at the entrance of that portion of the intersection
designated as the main traveled or through highway. Stop signs may also be
erected at three or more entrances to an intersection.
      (2)   Pursuant G.S. § 20-158, local authorities, with reference to
highways under their jurisdiction, are authorized to control vehicles at
appropriate places other than intersections by erecting or installing stop
signs requiring vehicles to come to a complete stop.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this schedule is to promote the health, safety
and welfare of citizens and other person(s) using the highways within the
town’s jurisdiction.
   (C)   Location of stop signs within the town. When stop signs are erected or
installed as herein authorized, every driver of a vehicle shall come to a
complete stop. When a stop sign has been erected or installed at an
intersection, it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to fail to
stop in obedience thereto and yield the right-of-way to vehicles operating on
the designated main traveled or through street. When stop signs have been
erected at three or more entrances to an intersection, the driver, after
stopping in obedience thereto, may proceed with caution. Every driver of a
vehicle shall come to a complete stop at duly erected stop sign located at the
following intersections within the town.
Intersection Ord. Passed
Intersection                                  Ord. Passed
Bray Street and S. Currie Street
Currie Street and E. Hall Street              6-11-2020
Currie Street and Old Wilmington Road         6-11-2020
E. Carr Street and S. College Street
E. Cliff Street and S. College Street
E. Cliff Street and 5. Graham Street
E. Hall Street and S. Graham Street
E. Murray Street and N. Graham Street
E. Murphy Street and E. Harrell Street
Forest Lane and N. Harrell Street
Ivey Street and Elm Street
N. College Street and E. Cavenaugh Street
N. College Street and E. Lanier Street
N. College Street and E. Murphy Street
N. College Street and E. Westbrook Street
N. Cumberland Street and W. Murphy Street
N. Cumberland Street and W. Murray Street
N. Cumberland Street and W. Westbrook Street
N. Duplin Street and E. Murray Street
N. Duplin Street and E. Westbrook Street
N. Graham Street and E. Brice Street
N. Graham Street and E. Cavenaugh Street
N. Graham Street and E. Elizabeth Street
N. Graham Street and E. Lanier Street
N. Graham Street and E. Murphy Street
N. Graham Street and E. Powell Street
N. Graham Street and E. Wells Street
N. Graham Street and E. Westbrook Street
N. Onslow Street and E. Lanier Street
N. Onslow Street and E. Westbrook Street
N. Orange Street and Oak Street
N. Poplar Street and E. Maple Street
N. Raleigh Street and W. Lanier Street
N. Raleigh Street and W. Stevens Street
N. Second Street and W. Stevens Street
N. Sloan Street and W. Westbrook Street
N.E. Railroad Street and E. Blanchard Street
N.E. Railroad Street and E. Cavenaugh Street
N.E. Railroad Street and E. Lanier Street
N.E. Railroad Street and E. Maple Street
N.E. Railroad Street and E. Murphy Street
N.E. Railroad Street and E. Westbrook Street
N.E. Railroad Street and E. Worsley Street
N.W. Railroad Street and W. Cavenaugh Street
N.W. Railroad Street and W. Lanier Street
N.W. Railroad Street and W. Murphy Street
N.W. Railroad Street and W. Westbrook Street
S. Currie Street and E. Carr Street
S. Currie Street and E. Cliff Street
S. Currie Street and E. Hall Street
S. Cumberland Street and W. Boney Street
S. Cumberland Street and W. Carr Street
S. Cumberland Street and W. Cliff Street
5. Currie Street and Prosperity Drive (north)
S. Currie Street and Prosperity Drive (south)
S. Graham and E. Hall Street                  6-11-2020
S. Raleigh Street and W. Boney Street
S. Raleigh Street and W. Cliff Street
S. Raleigh Street and W. Craven Street
S. Teachey Road and E. Boney Street
S. Teachey Road and E. Carr Street
S. Teachey Road and E. Cliff Street
S. Teachey Road and Old Wilmington Road       6-11-2020
S. Teachey Road and S. Duplin Street
S.E. Railroad Street and E. Boney Street
S.E. Railroad Street and E. Carr Street
S.E. Railroad Street and E. Clement Street
S.E. Railroad Street and E. Cliff Street
S.E. Railroad Street and E. Hall Street
S.W. Railroad Street and W. Boney Street
S.W. Railroad Street and W. Carr Street
W. Boney Street and S. Orange Street
W. Boney Street and S. Rockfish Street
W. Cavenaugh Street and N. Raleigh Street
W. Cavenaugh Street and W. Cumberland Street
W. Clement Street and S. Orange Street
W. Cliff Street and S. Orange Street
W. Cliff Street and S. Rockfish Street
W. Hall Street and S. Orange Street
W. Miami Avenue and N. First Street
W. Miami Avenue and N. Second Street
W. Murphy Street and N. Orange Street
W. Murphy Street and N. Raleigh Street
W. Murray Street and N. Orange Street
W. Murray Street and N. Raleigh Street
W. Stevens Street and N. Sloan Street
W. Westbrook Street and N. Raleigh Street
W. Westbrook Street and N. Second Street
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 73, Schedule III) (Ord. passed 6-11-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 20-158
SCHEDULE IV. YIELD SIGNS.
Intersection Ord. Passed
Intersection                               Ord. Passed
E. Cavenaugh Street and N. Duplin Street
E. Cavenaugh Street and N. Harrell Street
E. Hall Street and S. College Street
E. Murphy Street and E. Duplin Street
E. Murphy Street and Forest Lane
E. Murray Street and N. Harrell Street
E. Murray Street and N.E. Railroad Street
N. Cumberland Street and W. Stevens Street
N. Duplin Street and Forest Lane
N. Graham Street and E. Dixon Street
N. Graham Street and E. Elizabeth Street
N. Graham Street and E. Worsley Street
N. Orange Street and W. Westbrook Street
S. Cumberland Street and W. Clement Street
S. Cumberland Street and W. Craven Street
S. Cumberland Street and W. Hall Street
S. Duplin Street and E. Boney Street
S. Graham Street and E. Boney Street
S. Orange Street and W. Carr Street
S. Orange Street and W. Craven Street
S. Raleigh Street and W. Carr Street
S. Raleigh Street and W. Clement Street
S. Raleigh Street and W. Hall Street
S.W. Railroad Street and W. Cliff Street
S.W. Railroad Street and W. Clement Street
S.W. Railroad Street and W. Hall Street
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 73, Schedule IV)
SCHEDULE V. STOP LIGHTS.
 
Intersection                          Ord. Passed
E. Boney Street and S. College Street
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 73, Schedule V) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Trucks required to follow routes.
      (1)   All trucks entering the town destined to any point outside of the
town and not taking on or discharging any goods, wares or merchandise within
the town limits shall travel exclusively on truck routes established in
division (D) below and over the part of the truck routes as shall constitute
the shortest and most direct route from the point of entrance into the town and
departure from the town.
      (2)   For the purpose of this schedule, the term TRUCK shall mean any
apparatus or combination thereof that contains more than two axles or that
weighs in excess of 20,000 pounds whether loaded or unloaded; provided that,
this shall not apply to any vehicle used by or in connection with the repair or
maintenance of any street, water or sewage system; garbage collection performed
by or on behalf of the town; any fire protection or rescue squad apparatus; any
school or activity bus; any utility maintenance vehicle; or any vehicle used in
obtaining driving permits or license, provided that, the driver is accompanied
by a state driver’s license examiner.
   (B)   Trucks prohibited on town streets.
      (1)   All trucks are prohibited from traveling on town streets, except
for the truck routes designated in division (D) below; provided that, trucks
may travel on non-permitted streets to reach or to return from a destination
upon the street; and, provided that, the following designated trucks shall be
permitted to travel upon streets not approved as truck routes where a truck
route is not available:
         (a)   Fuel delivery trucks going to and from a specific destination
for the sole purpose of delivering fuel and/or tanks;
         (b)   Parcel and freight delivery trucks with bills of lading with a
specific destination within an otherwise prohibited area for the sole purpose
of delivering parcels and/or freight;
         (c)   Moving vans that are hired to move household furniture to or
from a particular location; and/or
         (d)   Trucks granted a permit by the state’s Department of
Transportation to move structures to and from a particular location.
      (2)   In order to qualify for the exceptions set out in divisions (B)(1)
(a) through (B)(1)(d) above, the driver shall have in his or her immediate
possession a bill of lading or permit which shall designate the destination,
name of recipient and cargo intended for delivery.
   (C)   Routes to be marked. The Chief of Police shall cause to be erected and
maintained, at points where through truck routes enter the town and at all
junction points and turns where necessary, signs of the dimensions and at
locations as shall be approved by him or her, directing truck traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this schedule.
   (D)   Truck routes.
Carter Street
E. Cliff Street (from US 117 to Railroad Street)
E. Hall Street (from Wilmington Road to US 117)
E. Murray Street (from Graham Street to US 117)
Graham Street (from Murray Street to Southerland Street)
NC 41 (Main Street)
Railroad Street
Rockfish Street/Boney Bridge Road (from Southerland Street to southern
corporate limits)
Southerland Street (from Teachey Road to NC 41 West)
Teachey Road (from E. Main Street to northern corporate limits)
US 117 (Norwood Street)
Wilmington Road (from Hall Street to southern corporate limits)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 73, Schedule VI) (Ord. passed 7-10-1987) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII. THREE- AND FOUR-WAY INTERSECTIONS.
Streets Intersection Type
Streets                        Intersection Type
E. Boney and S. Graham         Four-way
E. Cliff and S. Graham         Four-way
E. Murray and W. Harrell       Four-way
Forest Lane and N. Harrell     Four-way
N. Graham and Elizabeth Street Three-way
S. Cumberland and W. Cliff     Four-way
S. Raleigh and W. Carr         Four-way
W. Hall and S. Raleigh         Four-way
 
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Permitted parking
      
II.   Parking prohibited at all times
      
III.   Limited parking
      
IV.   Parking parallel to curb
      
V.   Angle parking
SCHEDULE I. PERMITTED PARKING.
 
Description                                                    Side Ord. Passed
College Street immediately adjacent to the parking lot for the West 8-26-1980
Skateland Skating Rink
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit anyone to stand in any of the following
places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
Description Side Ord. Passed
Description                                                                  Side  Ord.
                                                                                   Passed
Boney Street from the intersection of Norwood Street (NC Hwy 117) in a             12-8-
westerly direction to the property line 193 feet being that portion adjacent North 1977
to the McDonald’s™ restaurant parking lot
East Southerland Street between College and Norwood Streets                  Both  4-8-
                                                                                   1971
Main Street (Hwy 41) from the intersection of Norwood Street (Hwy 117) in a        12-8-
westerly direction to the property line 173 feet, being that portion         South 1977
adjacent to the McDonald’s™ restaurant parking lot
North College Street                                                         East  6-10-
                                                                                   1981
North College Street between Westbrook and Lanier Streets                    Both  8-14-
                                                                                   1980
Norwood Street (NC Hwy 117) on that portion between West Main Street (NC Hwy       12-8-
41) and West Boney Street being adjacent to the McDonald’s™ restaurant   West  1977
parking lot
Southerland Street (SR 1173) from a point on the eastern edge of the               5-8-
intersection of Southerland Street (SR 1173) and College Street east to the  North 1980
western edge of the intersection of Southerland Street (SR 1173) and Hwy 117
Southerland Street (SR 1173) from a point on the eastern edge of the               5-8-
intersection of Southerland Street (SR 1173) and College Street east to the  South 1980
western edge of the intersection of Southerland Street (SR 1173)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule II) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. LIMITED PARKING.
Location Time Limit Ord. Passed
Location                                     Time Limit             Ord. Passed
117 Southbound Lane from Southerland Street  Two hours              3-13-1980
to Main Street
Both sides of 117 between Southerland Street Two hours              3-13-1980
and Murray Street
East Murray Street between N. Norwood Street
and Graham Street in front of Town Hall and  Two hours              6-13-2019
EMS building
East Murphy Street between US 117 and Graham
Street, beginning at the east property line
of the existing business facing US 117,      9:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
running eastward to Graham Street; south
side
East Murphy Street between US 117 and Graham 9:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Street; north side
Graham Street between Cavenaugh Street and
East Murphy Street from the south property   9:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
line of Mr. Teachey, running northward to
East Murphy Street; west side
Main Street between Norwood and Cumberland   Day and night          11-6-1947
Street1
NOTES TO TABLE:
   1 Pertaining to the parking of trucks, buses, and similar vehicles in size
and weight for more than one hour.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedules III, IV and VII) (Amendment passed 6-13-
2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING PARALLEL TO CURB.
 
Street         Between                          Side Ord. Passed
Main Street    Norwood and Cumberland Streets   Both 11-6-1947
Raleigh Street W. Southerland and Boney Streets Both 2-10-2022
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule V) (Res. passed 2-10-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. ANGLE PARKING.
 
Description                                              Ord. Passed
Main Street, traffic entering south                      11-6-1947
Southwest Railroad Street between Main and Boney Streets 11-6-1947
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule VI) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Leash and restraint requirements
   
90.04   Removal of dog feces
   
90.05   Rabies vaccination
   
90.06   Regulation of farm animals within town limits
   
90.07   Prohibited conduct
   
90.08   Animal neglect and abuse
   
90.09   Vicious or dangerous dogs
   
90.10   Trapping and disposition of stray animals
   
90.11   Kennel registration requirements
   
90.12   Prohibition on the retail sale of dogs and cats
   
90.13   Possession of dangerous exotic animals prohibited
   
90.14   Exceptions to prohibited exotic animals
   
90.15   Impoundment and disposition of dangerous exotic animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is established to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
residents, promote responsible pet and animal ownership, and prevent nuisances
and public hazards within the Town of Wallace. This chapter rescinds any and
all previous animal control ordinance issued by the Town of Wallace.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. An animal is considered AT LARGE if it is off the owner's premises
and not under physical restraint.
   DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMALS. Includes any mammal, reptile or fowl that is not
indigenous to the continental United States, which is not naturally tame or
gentle, but is of a nature or disposition, and which, because of its size,
natural instincts, mode of life, vicious nature or other characteristics, would
constitute a danger to human life or property.
   FARM ANIMAL. Includes, but is not limited to, goats, pigs, cattle, horses,
sheep, roosters, hens, and similar livestock.
   KENNEL. Any residential or commercial property where more than five dogs or
cats over the age of four months are housed, kept, or maintained at any time
greater than 60 days, regardless of ownership.
   NEGLECT. Failure to provide adequate food, water, shelter, medical care, or
sanitation.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity
possessing, harboring, keeping, or having custody or control of an animal.
   PHYSICAL RESTRAINT. Control of an animal by a leash, harness, or similar
device held by a responsible person.
   POULTRY. Domesticated fowl, including chickens, ducks, and turkeys.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal that has attacked, bitten, or otherwise caused
harm to a person or another animal without provocation.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.03 LEASH AND RESTRAINT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All dogs must be on a physical leash when off the owner's property.
   (B)   Dogs must be confined to a secure enclosure or on a leash while on the
owner's premises if not otherwise physically restrained.
   (C)   Exceptions are granted only in designated off-leash dog park areas
within the town.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.04 REMOVAL OF DOG FECES.
   (A)   Any person owning, harboring, walking, in possession of, or in charge
of, a dog which defecates on public property, public park property, public
right-of-way or any private property without the permission of the private
property owner, shall remove all feces immediately after it is deposited by the
dog. All feces removed in accordance with this section shall be placed in a
suitable bag or other container that closes and is disposed of in a lawful
manner.
   (B)   Any person, while harboring, walking, in possession of, or in charge
of, a dog on public property, public park property, public right-of-way or any
private property without the permission of the private property owner, shall
have in his or her possession a bag or other container that closes, which is
suitable for removing feces deposited by the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to blind people using
dogs as guides.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.05 RABIES VACCINATION.
   Per G.S. §§ 130A-185 and 130A-189, the owner of a dog, cat or ferret over
four months of age must be vaccinated and have a vaccination certificate.
Further, dogs are required to wear vaccination tags at all times.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.06 REGULATION OF FARM ANIMALS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   General prohibition. Farm animals are not permitted to be kept within
town limits, with the following exception.
   (B)   Chickens (hens only).
      (1)   Residents may keep up to six hens on a residential property.
      (2)   Chickens must be kept in a secure, clean, and properly maintained
coop and fenced pen at all times.
      (3)   Coops must be located at least 15 feet from all property lines and
30 feet from any residence other than the owner's.
      (4)   Roosters are strictly prohibited.
   (C)   Exemptions may be granted for educational or temporary demonstration
purposes with prior written approval by the Town Manager or their designee.
   (D)   Removal of prohibited animals are the responsibility of the owner and
at their costs and must occur within ten days of notice of violation.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.07 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   Animals at large. It is unlawful for any owner to permit their animal
to be at large.
   (B)   Nuisance behavior. Includes habitual barking, howling, crowing, or
other noise, destruction of property, aggressive chasing, and scattering
garbage.
   (C)   Unlawful tethering. Continuous tethering of animals for more than four
hours is prohibited unless the animal is in the owner's presence.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.08 ANIMAL NEGLECT AND ABUSE.
   (A)   No person shall willfully neglect or fail to provide their animal with
adequate food, water, shelter, and medical care.
   (B)   Abandoning or leaving animals unattended for extended periods without
care is prohibited.
   (C)   Violations of this section will be investigated and enforced by the
Wallace Police Department, which may seize animals in immediate danger.
   (D)   Animals needing medical care will be transported to a local licensed
veterinarian. Any costs associated for care will be charged to owner.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.09 VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Animals deemed vicious or dangerous may not be kept within town limits
unless securely confined and muzzled in public.
   (B)   Owners are required to report bites or attacks to the Wallace Police
Department within 24 hours.
   (C)   The Wallace Police Department is authorized to impound any animal
determined to pose a threat to public safety, in accordance with applicable
state law. Any vicious animal requiring euthanasia shall be humanely euthanized
by a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.10 TRAPPING AND DISPOSITION OF STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Town of Wallace permits the humane trapping of stray animals
within its jurisdiction using town-approved equipment or personnel.
   (B)   All trapped animals shall be transported to the Duplin County Animal
Control facility located in Kenansville, North Carolina or the Pender County
Animal Control Facility in Burgaw, North Carolina, depending on where the
animal was collected.
   (C)   Owners seeking to reclaim their animal must contact the appropriate
County Animal Control facility directly and may be subject to fees for
boarding, care, and vaccinations as required by that facility.
   (D)   The Town of Wallace is not responsible for notifying the owners of
trapped or impounded animals.
   (E)   Repeated instances of an animal being trapped may result in fines or
further enforcement action under §§ 90.05 or 90.08.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.11 KENNEL REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Registration requirement.
      (1)   Any individual, household, or business keeping more than five dogs
or cats must register as a kennel with the Town of Wallace Planning and Zoning
Department.
      (2)   The application must include the number of animals, types of
animals, property address, and proof of rabies vaccination for each dog.
   (B)   Inspections. The town or its designee may conduct annual inspections
of registered kennels to ensure compliance with cleanliness, noise, odor
control, and humane treatment standards.
   (C)   Zoning compliance. Kennels must be located in zoning districts that
permit such use. Residential areas may be subject to restrictions, including
minimum lot size and setback requirements.
   (D)   Revocation of registration. The town may revoke kennel registration
for repeated ordinance violations, failure to maintain sanitary conditions, or
neighborhood disturbances resulting from the animals.
   (E)   Fees. A yearly kennel registration fee may be established by the Town
Council and amended by resolution. Non-payment may result in enforcement
actions or citations.
   (F)   Penalty for non-compliance. Failure to register a kennel when required
may result in a civil penalty of $100 per day until compliance is achieved.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.12 PROHIBITION ON THE RETAIL SALE OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Prohibited conduct. No person, business, or entity shall sell, offer
for sale, barter, auction, or otherwise transfer dogs or cats within the town
limits in any public place, commercial establishment, flea market, or outdoor
venue.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following are exempt from this section:
      (1)   Animal shelters, animal control agencies, and rescue organizations
that are recognized 501(c)(3) nonprofits and offer animals for adoption.
      (2)   Private individuals who sell or give away a single litter of
puppies or kittens from animals personally owned and maintained on the
premises, no more than once per 12-month period.
      (3)   Licensed veterinarians providing animals for adoption in connection
with their medical services, not as a retail business.
   (C)   Public places defined. For the purposes of this chapter, "public
place" includes but is not limited to parks, sidewalks, roadsides, parking
lots, shopping centers, and other locations accessible to the general public.
   (D)   Penalties. A violation of this section shall constitute a civil
infraction punishable by a fine of $250 per occurrence. Each day of continued
violation shall be considered a separate offense.
   (E)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect animal welfare,
encourage adoption from shelters and rescues, and prevent the operation of
unregulated breeding or "puppy mill" activity within the town.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.13 POSSESSION OF DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   This section is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in G.S. § 160A-
174. It is the intent of the Town of Wallace to protect the public against the
health and safety risks that exotic animals pose to the community and to
protect the welfare of animals held in private possession. By their very
nature, many exotic animals are wild and potentially dangerous and do not
adjust well to a captive environment.
   (A)   Except in accordance with this section, it shall be unlawful for any
person or entity to possess, harbor, or have under their control any dangerous
exotic animal(s) in the Town of Wallace.
      (1)   The Town of Wallace's prohibition against "dangerous exotic
animals" includes, but is not limited to, any member of the Canidae, Felidae,
or Ursidae families, including hybrids thereof, which due to their inherent
nature, may be considered dangerous to humans.
         (a)   Canidae include any member of the dog (canid) family not
customarily domesticated by man, or any hybrids of such Canidae, thereof,
including wolf hybrids, which are a cross between a wolf and a domestic dog,
but not including domestic dogs (Canis Familiaris).
         (b)   Felidae include any member of the cat family weighing over 15
pounds not customarily domesticated by man, or any hybrids of such Felidae, but
not including domestic cats (Felis catus).
         (c)   Ursidae include any member of the bear family or hybrids of such
Ursidae.
      (2)   Dangerous exotic animals prohibited by Duplin County further
include, without limitation, any "inherently dangerous reptile," defined as any
member of the class reptilia which:
         (a)   Is venomous. A venomous reptile shall include all members of the
families Helodermidae (Gila monsters and Mexican bearded lizards), Viperidae
(vipets), Crotalidae (pit vipers), Atractaspidae (burrowing asps),
Hydrophilidae (sea snakes), and Elapidae (cobras, coral snakes, and their
allies), as well as any "rear fanged" snakes of the family Colubridae that are
known to be dangerous to humans (including, but not limited to Dispholidus
typus (boomslang), Thebtomis Kirtland (Twig snake) and Rhabdophisspp
(keelbacks).
         (b)   Is a member of the order of Crocodilia (crocodiles, alligators,
and caiman).
   (B)   This chapter applies to any other exotic animal that may be deemed by
the Code Enforcement Officer as a danger to the health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents of the Town of Wallace or any other persons present in
the town.
   (C)   The term "dangerous exotic animal" does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Domesticated dogs (excluding hybrids);
      (2)   Domesticated cats (excluding hybrids with ocelots or margays);
      (3)   Domesticated horses, asses, and donkeys;
      (4)   Cattle, American buffalo, and Water buffalo;
      (5)   Sheep;
      (6)   Goats;
      (7)   Domesticated swine;
      (8)   Domesticated poultry;
      (9)   Domesticated hamsters, guinea pigs, rats, mice, and chinchillas;
      (10)   Domesticated rabbits;
      (11)   Llamas, alpacas, and camels;
      (12)   Captive-bred species of parrots, parakeets, ducks, finches, doves,
pigeons, and canaries, or other tame and domesticated birds that are sold by,
or obtained from, a licensed animal dealer;
      (13)   Flightless birds, including ostriches, emus, and rheas;
      (14)   Domesticated species of goldfish;
      (15)   Captive-bred common freshwater and saltwater aquarium fish;
      (16)   Captive-bred, non-venomous snakes;
      (17)   Captive-bred turtles;
      (18)   All insect species not considered life-threatening to humans,
specifically including, but not limited to the common honeybee;
      (19)   All Arachnid species (such as spiders, scorpions, and related)
that are not considered life threatening to humans; and
      (20)   Fox Hunting Preserves (Ref. 15A NCAC .1200 Controlled Fox Hunting
Preserves).
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.14 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITED EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Provided that each dangerous exotic animal, as defined by this
chapter, is maintained in a secure enclosure constructed and maintained to
prevent the animal's escape and compliant with the requirements of G.S. §§ 14-
417, 14-417.1, and 14-417.2, and the further requirements set forth herein, the
prohibitions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Federal or state-licensed wildlife rehabilitators engaged in the
rehabilitation of sick, injured, or orphaned native wildlife to the extent
permitted by their license; provided that said wildlife is housed on a parcel
or tract of land containing not less than one hundred acres, and all
structures, boundary fences, perimeter fences, and animal enclosures are
located 500 feet or more from the property line; and provided further that the
rehabilitator maintains liability insurance with a minimum of $1,000,000 per
claim to compensate any person for personal injury or property damage caused by
the wildlife. Possession of wildlife not native to Duplin County is strictly
prohibited.
      (2)   Lawfully operated non-resident carnivals, circuses, and traveling
fairs for no longer than seven consecutive days, and a maximum of two times per
calendar year; provided that the owner and/or operator maintains liability
insurance with a minimum of $1,000,000 per claim to compensate any person for
personal injury or property damage caused by the animal(s).
      (3)   Veterinary clinics operated by a veterinarian licensed by the North
Carolina Veterinary Medical Board in possession of animals for treatment or
rehabilitation purposes.
      (4)   Persons temporarily transporting animals non-stop through the Town
of Wallace on state-maintained highways, provided that such time in the Town of
Wallace shall not exceed two hours; and provided further that the transporter
maintains liability insurance with a minimum of $1,000,000 per claim to
compensate any person for personal injury or property damage caused by
transportation of the animals.
      (5)   Properly licensed and established zoos provided said zoo is
established or exists on a parcel or tract of land containing not less than one
hundred acres; and provided further the structures, boundary fences, perimeter
fences, and animal enclosures are located 500 feet or more from the property
line; and provided further that the zoo maintains liability insurance with a
minimum of $1,000,000 per claim to compensate any person for personal injury or
property damage caused by the animal(s).
   (B)   No references or restrictions in this chapter shall apply to animals
under the exclusive custody and control of the North Carolina Zoological Park.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.15 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any dangerous exotic animal that is kept by any person or entity in
violation of this chapter may be immediately seized without notice and
impounded by Code Enforcement Officer without the necessity of a written order
or a court order, for the protection of the public or the health of the animal.
   (B)   If a dangerous exotic animal kept by any person or entity in violation
of this chapter cannot be seized and impounded safely by the Code Enforcement
Officer OR if proper and safe housing cannot be found for the animal, the Town
of Wallace may immediately have the dangerous exotic animal destroyed.
   (C)   The owner of an impounded dangerous exotic animal may apply to reclaim
the dangerous exotic animal if the person or entity provides proof of ownership
and satisfies the Town of Wallace that a safe and prompt transfer of the
dangerous exotic animal to an appropriate location outside of the town has been
arranged; and provided further that all monetary fines, penalty, bond, and
costs imposed under this chapter or other applicable law have been paid in
full.
   (D)   If the owner of an impounded dangerous exotic animal cannot be located
or if an impounded dangerous exotic animal remains unclaimed, the Town of
Wallace may, in the discretion of the have the animal euthanized, turn the
animal over to the North Carolina Museum of Natural Science or the North
Carolina Zoological Park, allow the animal to be lawfully adopted by a zoo, or
return the animal to an appropriate wilderness.
   (E)   In the event any investigation of an individual or entity possessing,
harboring, or controlling a dangerous exotic animal is required or requested,
and the complaint is substantiated by Code Enforcement Officer, then the
reasonable costs of the investigation shall be assessed against the owner and/
or possessor of the dangerous exotic animal.
   (F)   If, at any time, it becomes necessary to impound or destroy a
dangerous exotic animal pursuant to this chapter, then the costs of such
impoundment or destruction shall be assessed against the owner and/or possessor
of the dangerous exotic animal.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Enforcement authority. The Code Enforcement Officer and/or the Wallace
Police Department shall have authority to enforce this chapter, including
issuing citations, seizing animals, and investigating complaints.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   First violation: Written warning or fine up to $50.
      (2)   Second violation: Fine up to $100.
      (3)   Subsequent violations: Fine up to $500 and possible impoundment of
the animal.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 8-11-2025)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
   
91.01   Fire limits
   
91.02   Trash in fire zones
   
91.03   Use of fireworks and explosives prohibited
   
91.04   Inspection fee and fine schedule
§ 91.01 FIRE LIMITS.
   The municipal fire district for the Fire Department should include the
posted municipal limits by the town.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. passed 1-20-1941; Ord. passed 9-11-1958)
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of fire limits; restrictions, see G.S. §§ 160A-435 through
160A-438
§ 91.02 TRASH IN FIRE ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or cause to be deposited waste paper or trash
outside of any building or on the streets of any property located within the
fire zone.
(Prior Code, § 92.02)
§ 91.03 USE OF FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES PROHIBITED.
   The following shall be unlawful within the municipal limits of the town,
except as provided by ordinance:
   (A)   All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner or in any amount; and
   (B)   All use or display of fireworks (see fine schedule in §
91.04).
(Prior Code, § 92.03)
Statutory reference:
   Fireworks, see G.S. §§ 14-410 et seq.
   Regulation of explosive, inflammable substances, see G.S. § 160A-183
§ 91.04 INSPECTION FEE AND FINE SCHEDULE.
   The following fee and fine schedule be established.
   (A)   Inspection fee. First inspection: $50.
   (B)   Fines.
      (1)   Second inspection, if violations have been corrected: no charge;
      (2)   Second inspection, if violations have not been corrected: $75 per
violation; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent inspections: $100 per violation.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. passed 12-9-1999)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Sale of infected clothing
   
92.02   Public nuisances
   
92.03   Concealed weapons; posting signs
   
92.04   Distribution of handbills
Weeds, Vegetation, Refuse Accumulation and Other Public Nuisances;
Enforcement and Abatement
   
92.15   Accumulation of harmful substances declared to be public nuisance
   
92.16   Declared to be public nuisance
   
92.17   Enforcement
   
92.18   Nuisances abatement procedures
   
92.19   PenaltyNoise Regulations
Noise Regulations
   
92.35   Unnecessary noises prohibited
   
92.36   Prohibited acts enumerated
   
92.37   Noise caused by emergency work to comply
   
92.38   Exemption
Generators
   
92.45   Regulation of use of generators
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 93
   Garbage and refuse, see
Chapter 52
   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency, see §
130.02
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 92.01 SALE OF INFECTED CLOTHING.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any infected clothing, bed
linen or other infected clothes or articles.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   A nuisance is a thing, act, occupation or use of property which:
      (1)   Shall annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort or
repose of the public;
      (2)   Shall unlawfully interfere with, obstruct or tend to obstruct or
render dangerous for passage a lake, navigable river, bay, stream, canal or
basin or a public park, square, street, alley or highway; or
      (3)   Shall, in any way, render the public insecure in life or in use of
property.
   (B)   All other conditions or things which are liable to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone shall be deemed a nuisance and shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit obstruction of public ways, see G.S. § 160A-296
   Public health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 92.03 CONCEALED WEAPONS; POSTING SIGNS.
   (A)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized and instructed to post
conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within each park and each
building or portion of a building owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied,
managed or controlled by the town as well as the appurtenant premises to the
buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed handgun is prohibited therein.
   (B)   Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each
entrance by which the general public can access the building. The Town Manager
shall exercise discretion in determining the number and appropriate location of
signs to be placed on or within appurtenant premises and parks.
   (C)   This section shall be effective on and after 12-1-1995.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. passed 11-9-1995)
§ 92.04 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   The distribution of handbills, except as provided by ordinance, shall be
unlawful within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) Penalty, see §
92.99
**** WEEDS, VEGETATION, REFUSE ACCUMULATION AND OTHER PUBLIC NUISANCES;
ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT ****
§ 92.15 ACCUMULATION OF HARMFUL SUBSTANCES DECLARED TO BE PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The unloading, depositing, or piling of fertilizer, lime, manure,
agricultural or industrial chemicals, or like substances and allowing such
substances to remain uncovered or unprotected so that adjacent or nearby
private property is likely to be injured by substances being carried from these
piles or accumulations by the air, on the ground, or by drainage flow is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance detrimental to the health and safety of the
inhabitants of the town.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-174(a) and 160A-193, it shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, or corporation to allow the conditions described in division
(A) above to remain upon property owned or leased by the person, firm, or
corporation.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 6-12-2025)
§ 92.16 DECLARED TO BE PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The following enumerated and described conditions are hereby found, deemed
and declared to constitute a detriment, danger and hazard to the public health
and the public safety of the inhabitants of the town and are found, deemed and
declared to be public nuisances wherever the same may exist and the creation,
maintenance, or failure to abate any nuisance is hereby declared unlawful:
   (A)   Any condition which is a breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes or a
breeding ground or harbor for rats or other pests;
   (B)   A place of heavy growth of weeds, grasses, vines or other vegetation
over 12 inches in height;
   (C)   A place of growth of vines, shrubs, or other vegetation when the
condition is causing a breeding ground for rodents or is a focal point for any
other nuisance enumerated in this section;
   (D)   A place of growth of poison sumac, poison ivy, poison oak, or other
noxious vegetation;
2025 S-1
10   Wallace - General Regulations
   (E)   An open place of collection of stagnant water where insects tend to
breed;
   (F)   Any concentration of combustible items such as mattresses, boxes,
paper, automobile tires and tubes, garbage, trash, refuse, brush, old clothes,
rags, or any other combustible materials or objects of a like nature;
   (G)   Any concentration of building materials including concrete, steel, or
masonry which are not suitable for building construction, alterations or
repairs, and which are in open places;
   (H)   An open place of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or
any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind; provided, however, nothing
in this division shall be construed to prevent the generally accepted use of a
properly maintained compost pile or storage of animal manure being used as
fertilizer for lawns and gardens and for other agricultural or horticultural
purposes;
   (I)   Any household or office furniture, appliances, or metal products of
any kind kept in open places or indoor upholstered furniture kept outside of a
fully enclosed structure;
   (J)   Any products which have jagged edges of metal or glass or areas of
confinement kept in open places;
   (K)   Any open place of concentration of trash, refuse, discarded bottles,
cans or medical supplies;
   (L)   Any condition whereby any fence, sign, billboard, shrubbery, bush,
tree, mailbox, or other object or combination of objects which obstructs the
view of motorists using any street, private driveway, or approach to any street
intersection adjacent to and abutting such and so as to constitute a traffic
hazard or obstruction as a condition dangerous to public safety upon any
street, private driveway, or at any street intersection;
   (M)   Any building, structure, fence, or retaining wall, or portion thereof,
declared to be unsafe by the Code Enforcement Officer, or Building Inspector
where applicable, and which is in danger of collapse so that it may fall and
injure members of the public or damage public or private property;
   (N)   Any improper or inadequate drainage, as determined by the Director of
Public Services, on private property, which causes flooding, interferes with
the use of, or endangers in any way the streets, sidewalks, parks or other town
owned property of any kind;
   (O)   Any condition, as determined by the Director of Public Services, which
blocks, hinders, or obstructs in any way the natural flow of branches, streams,
creeks, surface waters, ditches, or drains; or
   (P)   Any other condition declared to be dangerous or prejudicial to the
public health or public safety and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 6-12-2025)
§ 92.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Manager and Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter and are authorized to exercise
such powers as may be necessary to carry out the intent and provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 6-12-2025)
§ 92.18 NUISANCES ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   When any public nuisance as set out in §§
92.15 or
92.16 is found to exist on any property within the town's corporate limits, the
following procedures shall be followed.
   (A)   The Town Manager and Code Enforcement Officer shall have the following
authority:
      (1)   To enter upon property;
      (2)   To obtain an administrative search and inspection warrant, if
necessary, as provided in G.S. § 15-27.2;
      (3)   To issue a notice of violation and impose civil penalties;
      (4)   To enter upon or authorize an agent to enter upon and clean up
premises in violation of this section;
      (5)   To utilize the services of an outside contractor to clean up
premises in violation of this section; and
      (6)   To summarily remove, abate, or remedy everything in the town limits
that is considered by ordinance to be either dangerous or prejudicial to the
public health or which has been declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   Where any public nuisance as set out in §§
92.15 or
92.16 requires immediate abatement to avoid and prevent an immediate and
dangerous threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the
town and would degrade adjoining properties as determined by the Town Manager
or Code Enforcement Officer, the nuisance may be summarily removed and abated
by the town without prior notice to the property owner. The owner as determined
from the tax records of County of Duplin shall be responsible for all abatement
costs, administrative fees, and civil penalties as provided in §
92.99.
   (C)   Notices or orders issued by the Town Manager or Code Enforcement
Officer under this chapter shall be served on the owner or the property manager
of the identified property by either hand delivery or by registered or
certified mail and regular mail. Service by mail shall be deemed complete by
depositing the notice or order in the mail at the address listed in the County
of Duplin tax records postage prepaid. When the manner of service is by
registered or certified mail and regular mail and the registered or certified
mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the Post
Office within ten days of mailing, service is deemed sufficient. The person
mailing the notice or order by regular mail shall certify that fact and the
date of the mailing and the certification shall be conclusive evidence of
service in the absence of fraud.
   (D)   Except in situations identified in division (B) above, notification to
the property owner will advise that the conditions that exist on the identified
property constitute a public nuisance and shall be abated within ten days of
the date of the notification and that failure to abate or remove the nuisance
shall result in the owner's assessment of the costs of abatement or removal,
imposition of administrative fees and the assessment of a civil penalty as
identified in §
92.99. The Town Manager or Code Enforcement Officer may afford the owner
additional time to remove or abate the nuisance if the failure was caused by
weather conditions or other factors as determined by the Town Manager or Code
Enforcement Officer not to have been within the control of the owner.
   (E)   Upon abatement of the nuisance, the Town Manager or Code Enforcement
Officer shall create a written statement of the actual costs incurred by the
town, including time and materials expended by the town, the amounts charged by
private contractors, administrative fees and civil penalty, if applicable, to
the owner of the property with instructions that the charges are due and
payable within 30 days of the date that the statement is mailed. The written
statement shall be delivered in the same manner as provided by division (C)
above. If the charges are not paid within 30 days, then the town shall cause
the costs associated with the abatement as provided in the statement to be
filed as a lien on the subject property with the charges to be collected and
enforced in the same manner as unpaid taxes.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Town Manager
or Code Enforcement Officer may notify a chronic violator that if the chronic
violator's property is determined to be a nuisance as defined in §§
92.15 or
92.16, the town shall, without further notice in the calendar year in which the
notice is given, take action to remedy the violation. The expense of the
action, including the actual cost to remedy the violation and an administrative
fee and civil penalties as provided in §
92.99, shall become a lien upon the property, and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes. For the purpose of this section, a chronic violator is a person who owns
property whereupon, in the previous calendar year, the town gave notice of
violation at least three times under any provision of this chapter.
   (G)   In addition to the nuisances abatement procedures provided by this
chapter, the town reserves the right to utilize any other remedies available
under applicable law, including, but not limited to, proceeding in a criminal
action against any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of
this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 6-12-2025)
§ 92.19 PENALTY.
   Any owner of a property whose property shall be declared a public nuisance
as provided in this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount
of $50 per day for each day the nuisance exists beginning on the first day
following the ten-day abatement period provided in §
92.18(D). If a person fails to pay the civil penalty within 30 days after being
notified of the amount due, the city may recover the penalty together with all
costs by filing a civil action in the general court of justice in the nature of
a suit to collect a debt.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 6-12-2025)
**** NOISE REGULATIONS ****
§ 92.35 UNNECESSARY NOISES PROHIBITED.
   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the creation of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town is prohibited.
Noise of a character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the life
or health of any individual is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 96.35) (Ord. passed 10-5-1982) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Noise regulation, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 92.36 PROHIBITED ACTS ENUMERATED.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary noises in violation of this subchapter, but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Blowing horns. The sounding of any horn whistle or signal device on
any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle or railroad train, except as a
danger signal or as required by law, so as to create any unreasonable, loud or
harsh sound or the sounding of the device for an unnecessary and unreasonable
period of time;
   (B)   Sirens. The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other than
police, fire or other emergency vehicle;
   (C)   Radios, record players and the like. The playing of any radio,
television set, record player, musical instrument or sound producing or sound
amplifying device in a manner or with a volume particularly during hours
between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of any person in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
   (D)   Pets. The keeping of any animal or bird, which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
   (E)   Use of vehicles. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so
out of repair, so loaded or operated in a manner as to create loud or
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, screeching of tires or other tires or
other noise;
   (F)   Blowing whistles. The blowing of any steam whistles attached to any
stationary boiler, except as a warning of danger or to give notice of the time
to begin or stop work;
   (G)   Exhaust discharge.
      (1)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle, except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to engage, use, operate or employ unmuffled
engine compression brakes on any vehicle or any unit constituting a part
thereof on any street within the municipal limits designated by resolution of
the Town Council for which one or more signs are posted stating that “Unmuffled
Engine Braking Prohibited”.
         (a)   The term ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES means a device used for the
conversion of the vehicle engine from an internal combustion engine to an air
compressor for the purpose of slowing or stopping the vehicle without the use
of wheel braking systems.
         (b)   It shall not be a violation of this division (G), during any
event deemed an emergency for the purpose of avoiding a collision with another
object, person or vehicle.
         (c)   This division (G) shall not apply to government owned or
operated vehicles.
   (H)   Compressed air devices. The use of any mechanical device operated by
compressed air unless the noise thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
   (I)   Building operations. The erection, including excavating, demolition,
alteration, or repair of any building in a residential or business district
other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in
the case of urgent necessity in the interests of public safety and then only
with a permit from the Building Inspector which permit may be renewed for a
period of three days or less while the emergency continues;
   (J)   Noises near schools and the like. The creation of any excessive noise
on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, library or
sanitarium or court while the same is in session or within 150 feet of any
hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working of the institutions;
provided that, conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets indicating that
the same is a school, court or hospital street;
   (K)   Loading and unloading operations. The creation of loud and excessive
noise in connection with the loading and unloading of any vehicle or the
opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers;
   (L)   Bells or gongs. The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any
building or premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the
vicinity thereof;
   (M)   Hawking, peddling or soliciting. The shouting and crying of peddlers,
hawkers and vendors which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
   (N)   Noises to attract attention. The use of any bell, drum, loudspeaker or
other instrument for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise
to any performance, show, sale, display or advertisement of merchandise;
   (O)   Blower, engines. The operation of any noise-creating blower, power fan
or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to
the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise emitting therefrom
is sufficiently muffled and the engine is equipped with a muffler device
sufficient to deaden the noise, so that the same shall not cause annoyance;
   (P)   Appliances and other mechanical devices. The operation of any noise-
producing appliance or other mechanical device which, due to operational
deficiencies, malfunction or other type of disrepair, causes loud and excessive
noises in such a manner as to unreasonably annoy the public or disturb the rest
and quiet of persons on adjacent premises or within the vicinity thereof;
   (Q)   Loudspeakers or amplifiers on vehicles. The use of mechanical
loudspeakers or amplifiers on boats, trucks, airplanes or other vehicles for
advertising or other purposes; provided that, in the exercise of free speech,
loudspeakers or amplifiers may be used for non-commercial purposes under the
following conditions:
      (1)   No wires or other materials or connections for the transmission of
power or for other purposes shall be placed on any street, sidewalk or on the
ground in any public park or public place. Any wires, materials or connections
shall be placed not less than seven feet above the street, sidewalk or ground,
except at the point of connection to the loudspeaker or amplifier; and
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to speak into a loudspeaker or
amplifier within the corporate limits of the town, when the loudspeaker or
amplifier is so adjusted that the voice of the speaker is amplified to the
extent that it is audible at distances in excess of 150 feet from the person
speaking.
   (R)   Commercial and non-commercial amplifiers and loudspeakers. The
commercial and non- commercial use of sound amplifying equipment not covered by
any other section of this subchapter shall be subject to the following
regulations:
      (1)   The only sounds permitted shall be either music or human speech or
both;
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate any sound amplifying equipment
within the corporate limits of the town, when the loudspeaker or amplifier is
so adjusted that the sound is amplified to the extent that it is audible at a
distance in excess of 150 feet from the amplifier or loudspeaker; and
      (3)   In any event, the volume of sound shall be so controlled that it
will not be unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing or a nuisance to
reasonable persons of normal sensitiveness within the area of audibility.
   (S)   Garage or filling station. The conducting, operating or maintaining of
any garage or filling station in any residential district so as to cause loud
or offensive noises to be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m.; and
   (T)   Firing or discharging guns. The firing or discharging of a gun,
squibs, crackers, gunpowder or other combustible substances in the streets or
elsewhere for the purpose of making noise or disturbance, except by permit from
the Police Department. However, this division (T) shall not prohibit the
possession, sale or use of firing of paper caps and paper cap pistols so long
as the same shall not constitute a willful breach of the peace.
(Prior Code, § 96.36) (Ord. passed 10-5-1982; Ord. 24-04, passed 1-11-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37 NOISE CAUSED BY EMERGENCY WORK TO COMPLY.
   Noise caused in the performance of emergency work for the immediate safety
or welfare of the community or individuals of the community or to restore
property to a safe condition following a public calamity shall be subject to
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.37) (Ord. passed 10-5-1982) Penalty, see 92.99
§ 92.38 EXEMPTION.
   Section 92.36(Q) and (R) of this chapter shall not apply to any person who
is participating in a school band or in a parade for which a permit has been
issued by the town.
(Prior Code, § 96.38) (Ord. passed 10-5-1982)
**** GENERATORS ****
§ 92.45 REGULATION OF USE OF GENERATORS.
   (A)   "Generator" is defined, for purposes of this section, as a device or
equipment intended solely for the generation, or supply, of electricity to a
residential or commercial building, or accessory buildings thereto.
   (B)   No person shall operate a generator or similar equipment except during
periods of power outages or during a temporary unavailability of electricity.
Temporary unavailability of electricity means the service cannot be turned on
by the utility providing the service to the property.
   (C)   There can be unlimited time for use of a generator during power
outages. Exercise of a generator is permitted for maintenance, but not more
than once a week, on weekdays, between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.,
and not to exceed 30 minutes of time.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 6-12-2025)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a civil
penalty of $50 for the first offense and $100 for a second and any subsequent
offenses. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense. If the
person fails to pay the civil penalties set forth within 30 days after being
cited for a violation, the town may seek to recover the penalty by filing
action in the nature of debt.
(Prior Code, § 96.99) (Ord. passed 10-5-1982; Ord. 25-05, passed 6-12-2025)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Duty of owners
   
93.03   Liability of persons to owners
   
93.04   Removal by town
   
93.05   Indemnification of town
   
93.06   Notice
   
93.07   Sale or disposal of abandoned vehicles; hearing procedure
   
93.08   Exemptions
   
93.09   Non-liability of persons disposing vehicles
   
93.10   Right to probable cause hearing
   
93.11   Disposal of vehicle with owner’s consent
   
93.12   Exceptions
   
93.13   Towing charges
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Has been left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law
or ordinance that regulates or prohibits parking or that requires the display
of a valid license plate or registration sticker;
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town longer than 24
hours;
      (3)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days;
or
      (4)   Is determined by law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring
public regardless of time.
   HEALTH AND SAFETY HAZARD VEHICLE. A motor vehicle left upon a street or
highway or private property longer than 72 hours that has been declared a
safety hazard by a code enforcement official without regard to whether the
vehicle is abandoned or junked as defined in this section and:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, insects, snakes or
pests or vehicles used for storage in a manner which may attract such pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection for pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A source of danger for children from exposed surfaces of metal,
glass or other rigid materials;
      (5)   Is a breeding ground or harbor for rats;
      (6)   Is a point of concentration or source of leaking of uncontained
gasoline, oil or other flammable or explosive materials;
      (7)   Is positioned in a way that there is a danger it will fall or turn
over; or
      (8)   Is a source of danger for children because they might become
entrapped in areas of confinement that cannot be opened from the inside.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. An abandoned motor vehicle that also:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than five years old and worth less than $500; or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   PRIVATE TOWER. An individual or company engaged in the business of towing
and storing motor vehicles that tows vehicles, pursuant to an arrangement with
the town, at the town’s request or authorization.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-303
§ 93.02 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner of any abandoned or
junked motor vehicle to cause the removal thereof immediately and to pay all
costs incident to the removal. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a
motor vehicle owned by him or her to remain after notice has been given to the
person to have the vehicle removed.
(Prior Code, § 96.16) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO OWNERS.
   (A)   Abandonment prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon
any motor vehicle defined under §
93.01 of this chapter as an abandoned motor vehicle or as a junked motor
vehicle.
   (B)   Duty to remove health or safety hazard vehicles. It shall be unlawful
for any person to leave or allow to remain on property under his or her control
or management any motor vehicle which is a health or safety hazard vehicle as
defined in §
93.01 of this chapter.
   (C)   Duty to remove junked vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to
leave or allow to remain on property under his or her control or management any
motor vehicle which is a junked motor vehicle for aesthetic purposes as defined
in §
93.08 of this chapter.
   (D)   Notice of towing. Any junked or abandoned motor vehicle or health or
safety hazard vehicle found to be in violation of this chapter may be towed to
a storage area. Whenever a motor vehicle is towed pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, the town shall provide notice to the owner as follows.
      (1)   Where a vehicle with a valid registration plate or registration is
towed, the authorizing person shall immediately notify the last known
registered owner of the vehicle of the following:
         (a)   A description of the vehicle;
         (b)   The place where the vehicle is stored;
         (c)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
         (d)   The procedure the owner must follow to have the vehicle returned
to him or her; and
         (e)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the towing.
      (2)   If the vehicle has a state registration plate or registration,
notice shall be given to the owner within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not
registered in this state, notice shall be given to the owner within 72 hours.
This notice shall, if feasible, be given by telephone. Whether or not the owner
is reached by telephone, notice shall be mailed to his or her last known
address unless he or she or his or her agent waives this notice in writing.
      (3)   Whenever a vehicle with neither a valid registration plate, nor
registration, is towed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the
authorizing person shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information listed in division (D)
(1) above. Unless the owner has otherwise been given notice, it is presumed
that the authorizing person has not made reasonable efforts, as required under
this division (D)(3), unless notice that the vehicle would be towed was posted
on the windshield or some other conspicuous place at least seven days before
the towing actually occurred, except no pre-towing notice need be given if the
vehicle impeded the flow of traffic or otherwise jeopardized the public welfare
so that immediate towing was necessary.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   Any junked or abandoned motor vehicle may be removed by the town to a
storage garage or area. However, no such vehicle shall be removed from private
property without the written request of the owner, lessee or occupant of the
premises, unless the town or a duly authorized town official or employee has
declared that vehicle to be a health or safety hazard.
(Prior Code, § 96.18) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-303(c)
§ 93.05 INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWN.
   Any person requesting the removal of a junked or abandoned motor vehicle
from private property shall indemnify the town against any loss, expense or
liability incurred because of the removal, storage or sale of that vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 96.19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-303(c)
§ 93.06 NOTICE.
   (A)   Removal of vehicles generally. Whenever any abandoned motor vehicle,
junked motor vehicle, or safety hazard vehicle is left on the public streets or
public grounds, said vehicle may be removed under the direction of a Code
Enforcement Officer or law enforcement officer by a private tower to a storage
garage or area. A vehicle on private property that has been declared to be a
safety hazard vehicle by the Code Enforcement Officer, pursuant to §
93.01 of this chapter, may be removed by a private tower at the direction of
the town without the consent of the owner of the vehicle or private property.
Prior to removing such safety hazard vehicle from private property, the town
shall attach a notice to the vehicle stating the nature of the safety hazard
and indicating that the vehicle is subject to removal within seven days if the
safety hazard is not eliminated. The town shall also provide the same notice to
the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises, either by personal service or
certified mail, prior to removal of the safety hazard vehicle. The owner of
such vehicle may obtain possession thereof by paying to the private tower all
reasonable costs incident to the removal and storage of the vehicle and
locating the owner of the vehicle.
   (B)   Sale or disposition generally. Subject to the right of a prior hearing
as set forth in §
93.10 of this chapter, a private tower is hereby authorized to sell or dispose
of abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, or safety hazard vehicles.
The sale or disposition of such vehicles shall be by private sale similar to
that provided for in G.S. Chapter 44A; except that, no additional hearing is
required. If no one purchases the vehicle at the sale and if the value of the
vehicle is less than the amount of the lien, the private tower holding a lien
against such vehicle may dispose of it in accordance with applicable law.
   (C)   Procedure for sale. Pursuant to G.S. § 44A-4(c), the sale shall be by
private sale in any such manner that is commercially reasonable. Such sale may
not be made until notice has been given to the state’s Commissioner of Motor
Vehicles on a form approved by the Commissioner at least 20 days before the
date of such sale as provided in G.S. § 20-114(c). Not less than 30 days prior
to the date of the proposed private sale, the private tower shall cause a
notice of sale to be mailed to the person having legal title to the property,
if reasonably ascertainable, to the person with whom the private tower dealt,
if different, and to each secured party or other person claiming an interest in
the property who is actually known to the private tower or can be reasonably
ascertained. The notice of sale provided by the private tower shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of the private tower holding a lien per G.S. §
44A-1;
      (2)   The name of the person having legal title to the property, if such
person can be reasonably ascertained, and the name of the person with whom the
town dealt;
      (3)   A description of the property;
      (4)   The amount due for which the lien is claimed;
      (5)   The place of sale; and
      (6)   If a private sale, the date upon or after which the sale is
proposed to be made or, if a public sale, the date and hour when the sale is to
be held.
   (D)   Purchase by town or private tower prohibited. Neither the town nor the
private tower holding a lien shall purchase, directly or indirectly, the
property at private sale and such a sale to the lienor shall be voidable.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds of sale. In accordance with G.S. § 44A-5, the
proceeds of the sale shall be applied as follows.
      (1)   Expenses of sale include, but are not limited to, reasonable
storage and boarding expenses after giving notice of sale.
      (2)   Any surplus shall be paid to the person entitled thereto, but when
such person cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the
surplus shall be paid to the Clerk of Superior Court of Duplin County, to be
held by the Clerk for the person entitled thereto.
   (F)   Acquisition of title by purchaser. Pursuant to G.S. § 44A-6, a
purchaser for value at a properly conducted sale and a purchaser for value
without constructive notice of a defect in the sale who is not the lienor or an
agent of the lienor acquires title to the property free of any interests over
which the lienor was entitled to priority.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 44A and §§ 44A-1, 44A-4(c), 44A-5, 44A-
6 and 20-114(c)
§ 93.07 SALE OR DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES; HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Regardless of whether a municipality does its own removal and disposal
of motor vehicles or contracts with another person to do so, the municipality
shall provide a hearing procedure for the owner.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the definitions in G.S. § 20-219.9
apply.
   (C)   If the municipality operates in such a way that the person who tows
the vehicle is responsible for collecting towing fees, all provisions of G.S.
Chapter 20, Article 7A, apply.
   (D)   If the municipality operates in a way that it is responsible for
collecting towing fees, it shall:
      (1)   Provide by contract or ordinance for a schedule of reasonable
towing fees;
      (2)   Provide a procedure for a prompt fair hearing to contest the
towing;
      (3)   Provide for an appeal to district court from that hearing;
      (4)   Authorize release of the vehicle at any time after towing by the
posting of a bond or paying of the fees due; and
      (5)   Provide a sale procedure similar to that provided in G.S. §§ 44A-4,
44A-5 and 44A-6; except that, no hearing in addition to the probable cause
hearing is required. If no one purchases the vehicle at the sale and if the
value of the vehicle is less than the amount of the lien, the municipality may
destroy it.
(Prior Code, § 96.21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 20, Article 7A and §§ 20-219.9, 44A-
4 through 44A-6 and 160A-303(d)
§ 93.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the term JUNKED MOTOR
VEHICLE, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-303.2, means a vehicle that does not
display a current license plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   (B)   Abandonment prohibited. It shall be unlawful to abandon a junked motor
vehicle, as defined in this section, on public streets, public grounds or
private property.
   (C)   Required finding; order to remove.
      (1)   Upon investigation, a Code Enforcement Officer may order the
removal of a junked motor vehicle, as defined in this section, after finding in
writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the
burdens imposed upon the owner of the vehicle. Such finding shall be based on a
balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding
gain to the public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area
appearance. The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
         (a)   Protection of property values;
         (b)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development
opportunities;
         (c)   Indirect protection of public health, which may be indicated
when one or more of the conditions listed in divisions (C)(1)(c)2. through (C)
(1)(c)4. below exists or indirect protection of public safety, which may be
indicated when one or more of the conditions listed in divisions (C)(1)(c)5.
through (C)(1)(c)8. below exists:
            1.   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, insects, snakes or
pests or vehicles used for storage in a manner which may attract such pests;
            2.   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation
over eight inches in height;
            3.   A point of collection for pools or ponds of water;
            4.   A source of danger for children from exposed surfaces of
metal, glass or other rigid materials;
            5.   Is a breeding ground or harbor for rats;
            6.   Is a point of concentration or source of leaking of
uncontained gasoline, oil or other flammable or explosive materials;
            7.   Is positioned in a way that there is a danger it will fall or
turn over; or
            8.   Is a source of danger for children because they might become
entrapped in areas of confinement that cannot be opened from the inside.
         (d)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community;
and
         (e)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of
area residents.
      (2)   If the owner of the vehicle shall request in writing that the
vehicle be removed, then the Code Enforcement Officer need not make the finding
described in this section, nor shall notice of removal be given. Additionally,
the Code Enforcement Officer need not make the finding described in this
section if he or she has a written request from the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the premises to remove a junked motor vehicle. In such cases, prior notice
must be given according to division (D) below.
   (D)   Removal by direction of the town.
      (1)   A junked motor vehicle which is to be removed pursuant to this
section shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person
entitled to claim possession of the vehicle. If the names and mailing addresses
of the registered owner or person entitled to possession of the vehicle can be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given
by certified mail. When service is attempted by certified mail, a copy of the
letter may be sent regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the
certified mail is returned unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not
returned within ten days after mailing. The notice shall indicate that the
vehicle will be removed at the town’s authorization no sooner than seven days
after receipt of notice. A copy of the notice will be retained by the town. If
such names and addresses cannot be ascertained, notice shall be given by
affixing on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a
notice indicating that the vehicle will be removed at the town’s authorization
on or after a specified date no sooner than seven days after the notice is
affixed.
      (2)   If the owner wishes to request a hearing, said hearing must be
requested in writing within the time period set forth in the notice.
      (3)   If the vehicle is not removed within the allotted time frame and a
request for a hearing is not made in a timely fashion, such vehicle shall be
disposed of according to the procedures set forth in §
93.06 of this chapter.
   (E)   Liability for damages. Any person who removes a vehicle pursuant to
this section shall not be held liable for damages for the removal of the
vehicle to the owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to possession
of the vehicle removed; however, any person who intentionally or negligently
damages a vehicle in the removal of such vehicle or intentionally inflicts
injury upon any person in the removal of such vehicle, may be held liable for
damages.
   (F)   Applicability of other sections. The provisions of §§
93.11 through
93.13 of this chapter relating to the removal, towing and storage of vehicles
shall apply to this section.
   (G)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any motor
vehicle that is used on a regular basis for business or personal use.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-303.2
§ 93.09 NON-LIABILITY OF PERSONS DISPOSING VEHICLES.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to the possession of any
abandoned, lost or stolen vehicle for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2021)
§ 93.10 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   After towing, but before the sale and disposition of an unclaimed
abandoned, junked, safety hazard motor vehicle, or junked motor vehicle for
aesthetic purposes, the town shall provide notice to the last known registered
owner of the vehicle in accordance with G.S. § 20-219.11, as may be amended
from time to time. Said notice shall include:
      (1)   A description of the vehicle;
      (2)   The place where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to have the vehicle returned to
him or her; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the towing.
   (B)   If the vehicle has a state registration plate or registration, notice
shall be given to the owner within 24 hours; if the vehicle is not registered
in this state, notice shall be given to the owner within 72 hours. This notice
shall, if feasible, be given by telephone. Whether or not the owner is reached
by telephone, notice shall be mailed to his or her last known address unless he
or she or his or her agent waives this notice in writing
   (C)   If a hearing is requested, notice of such hearing shall be provided by
the Magistrate’s office, and the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with
G.S. § 20-219.11, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 20-219.11
§ 93.11 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE WITH OWNER’S CONSENT.
   With the consent of the owner of the vehicle, any motor vehicle may be
removed and disposed of as a junked motor vehicle regardless of the value,
condition or age of such vehicle.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2021)
§ 93.12 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter for the removal of abandoned, junked or
health or safety hazard motor vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle in an
enclosed building or any vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise being
operating in a lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the
operation of the enterprise or to any vehicle in an appropriate storage place
or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2021)
§ 93.13 TOWING CHARGES.
   (A)   The charges for towing and storing of any vehicle lawfully impounded
under this chapter by a private tower shall be established pursuant to an
arrangement between town and the private tower(s).
   (B)   All towing and storage charges imposed upon the owner or operator in
connection with the impounded vehicle shall constitute a lien upon such
vehicle, and no such impounded vehicle shall be released until such charges
have been paid and proper evidence of ownership exhibited.
   (C)   All vehicles, including motorcycles, trailers or boats, towed pursuant
to this chapter shall be stored on premises owned or operated by a private
tower unless other arrangements due to the size of the vehicle, lack of space
or other circumstances have been made with the approval of the town.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2021)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any vehicle owner or real property owner who has been notified at
least two times within a six-month period of time of a violation of this
chapter relating to junked, junked motor vehicle for aesthetic purposes or
safety hazard vehicle shall be assessed a civil penalty of $250 with the third
and any subsequent notice of violation within a six-month time period. Both the
authority to assess a civil penalty and the authority to remove and impound a
vehicle(s) may be exercised so as to subject simultaneously the vehicle or real
property owner to a civil penalty and impoundment penalties. Thus, the
assessment of a civil penalty is in addition to the administrative fee, and
towing and storage charges assessed in accordance with §
93.13 of this chapter. The violation need not occur with the same vehicle each
time.
   (B)   Any vehicle owner whose vehicle(s) has been towed at least two times
within a six-month period for violation of §
93.01 of this chapter relating to abandoned motor vehicles shall be assessed a
civil penalty of $250 with the third and any subsequent tow within a six-month
time period. Both the authority to assess a civil penalty and the authority to
remove and impound a vehicle may be exercised so as to simultaneously subject
the vehicle owner to a civil penalty and impoundment penalties. Thus, the
assessment of a civil penalty is in addition to the administrative fee, and
towing and storage charges assessed in accordance with §
93.13 of this chapter. The violation and subsequent towing need not occur with
the same vehicle each time.
   (C)   If the civil penalty, as set forth herein, is not paid within ten days
after notification of the amount due, the town may recover the penalty,
together with all costs, by filing a civil action in the General Court of
Justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2021)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Act prohibited
   
94.02   Open fires prohibited
   
94.03   Misuse of facilities
   
94.04   Authority and enforcement
   
94.05   Closing park at temporary or regular intervals
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 ACT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any park, recreation center, surface
courts, playground, ballfield, tennis court or any other recreation facility
and the parking facilities thereof owned or controlled by the town to:
   (A)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or
remove any structure, equipment, facilities or other property either real or
personal;
   (B)   Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant or injure
the bark or pick the flowers or seed of any tree or plant or to dig or
otherwise disturb grass areas or in any other way injure or impair the natural
beauty or usefulness of any area;
   (C)   Bring in, dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes or
other similar debris;
   (D)   Fail to obey all traffic officers and Recreation Department employees,
the persons being authorized and instructed to direct traffic whenever and
wherever needed in the parks;
   (E)   Fail to observe carefully all traffic signs indicating speed,
direction, caution, stopping or parking and all others posted for proper
control and to safeguard life and property;
   (F)   Drive any vehicle on any area, except the paved park roads or parking
areas or such areas as may be specifically designated by the Director of Parks
and Recreation;
   (G)   Park a vehicle in other than an established designated parking area;
   (H)   Hold meetings, reunions or organized picnics without prior notice to
the Parks and Recreation
Department;
   (I)   Picnic or lunch in a place other than those designated for that
purpose. Attendants shall have the authority to regulate the activities in the
areas when necessary to prevent congestion and to secure the maximum use for
the comfort and convenience of the public;
   (J)   Leave a picnic area before the fire is completely extinguished and
before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans, bottles, garbage and
other refuse is placed in receptacles provided. If no other trash receptacles
are available, then refuse and trash shall be carried away from the park by the
user to be properly disposed of elsewhere;
   (K)   Camp in any area without permission of the Director of Parks and
Recreation. No person shall set up tents, shacks or any other temporary shelter
for the purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person leave in any park
after closing hours any movable structure or special vehicle to be used or that
could be used for that purpose, such as a camper-trailer, house trailer or the
like without permission of the Director of Parks and Recreation;
   (L)   Bring or have in his or her possession or set off or otherwise cause
to explode or discharge or burn any firecrackers or other fireworks or
explosives or discharge them or throw them into any area from land or highway
adjacent thereto;
   (M)   Build or attempt to build a fire, except in such areas and under such
regulations as may be designated for the purpose by the Director of Parks and
Recreation. No person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches,
burning cigarettes or cigars or other inflammable material within any park area
or on any highway, road or street abutting or contiguous thereto;
   (N)   Enter an area posted as “Closed to the Public”;
   (O)   Sleep or protractedly lounge on the seats, benches, floors or other
areas; engage in loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting or indecent
language; or engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to a breach
of the public peace;
   (P)   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party occupying
any area or participating in any authorized activity;
   (Q)   Sell food, beverages or merchandise or solicit donations for any
individual, group, company or corporation which is not solely non-profit in
nature;
   (R)   Carry, use or possess firearms or other dangerous weapons of any
nature within any park. However, this section shall not apply to law
enforcement officers when engaged in the discharge of their duties;
   (S)   Enter, use or remain within any park between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and sunrise unless a written permit therefor has been obtained from the
Director of Parks and Recreation; and/or
   (T)   Bring or have in his or her possession alcoholic beverages upon any
park site or throw them into any area from land or highway adjacent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 97.01) (Ord. passed 7-13-1984) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED.
   No open fires are allowed. All fires must be in park-provided or Department-
approved grills.
(Prior Code, § 97.02) (Ord. passed 7-13-1984) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 MISUSE OF FACILITIES.
   Flagrant misuse of parks and recreational facilities will result in forfeit
of future reservational and/or recreational privileges for a period as deemed
appropriate by the Director of Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 97.03) (Ord. passed 7-13-1984) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Director of Parks and Recreation has the authority and responsibility to
establish and enforce any rules and regulations governing the use and
maintenance of parks and recreation facilities. The Director of Parks and
Recreation and any authorized Department employee shall have the authority to
eject from any recreation facility any person acting in violation of this
chapter, or in violation of rules and regulations enacted pursuant to this
chapter or any other ordinance adopted by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 97.04) (Ord. passed 7-13-1984)
§ 94.05 CLOSING PARK AT TEMPORARY OR REGULAR INTERVALS.
   Any section or part of any park or recreation area or facility may be
declared closed to the public by the Director of Parks and Recreation at any
time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at regular and stated
intervals (daily or otherwise), and to certain uses.
(Prior Code, § 97.05) (Ord. passed 7-13-1984)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $50, or imprisonment not
to exceed 30 days, in the discretion of the Court, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 97.99) (Ord. passed 7-13-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 14-4
CHAPTER 95: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
95.01   Purpose; scope and intent
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Permit required
   
95.04   Required information
   
95.05   Standards for all special events
   
95.06   Additional standards for television and film events
   
95.07   Permit and other required fees
   
95.08   Exemptions
   
95.09   Permit denial
   
95.10   Revocation of permit
   
95.11   Appeals
   
95.12   Remedies
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE; SCOPE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a structured process for
permitting the staging of special planned public events and/or television and
film activities to ensure proper planning and adequate allocation of town
resources and protect the health and safety of the public attending such events
while balancing the interests of property owners and neighbors.
   (B)   This chapter will not apply to events sponsored by local, state or
federal government agencies or schools, colleges or universities located in
Duplin County, as planning for events and allocation of necessary resources is
already coordinated. This chapter shall not apply to regular church or worship
activities or events. This chapter shall not apply to businesses holding events
in venues designated to hold large numbers of people, where there is already a
safety and emergency plan approved by the town.
   (C)   When it is determined that an event does not meet the threshold of
requiring a permit but notification of emergency first responders is
recommended, the Planning Department will forward the information to the
appropriate agencies.
   (D)   This chapter shall not be used or interpreted to overrule, override or
circumvent any other local, state or federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICATION. Special event permit application as set forth by the Town
Planning Department.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day of the week, except Saturday, Sunday and public
holidays. The term BUSINESS DAY includes the term WORKING DAY.
   CROWD CONTROL PLAN. A plan that helps visitors move efficiently throughout
an event, minimizing confusion and congestion.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Material or liquids that pose a present or future threat
to the environment or general public whether in use, storage or transit.
   MAJOR SPECIAL EVENT. A special event as previously defined where 500 or more
participants are expected in attendance.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Belonging to or restricted for the use or enjoyment of
particular persons.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Land or buildings owned or operated by a governmental or
other public agency.
   SANCTIONING AUTHORITY. The official administering body that sanctions
specific events of the type being requested by the applicant such as, but not
limited to, racing authorities, public sports bodies and event associations.
   SPECIAL EVENT.
      (1)   A planned event, happening or social activity on public or private
property where at least 50 individuals are expected to be in attendance and
which is not otherwise under the jurisdiction of another governing authority. A
SPECIAL EVENT made may, but is not required to, include any of the following:
         (a)   The use, sale or display of fireworks;
         (b)   The sale, purchase, provision or consumption of alcoholic
beverages;
         (c)   The provision of live entertainment;
         (d)   The provision of overnight activities (for example, camping);
         (e)   Motorized or non-motorized vehicular racing or riding;
         (f)   Activities located wholly or partially on public rights-of-way;
         (g)   Sports that involve physical contact between participants as
part of normal play; and
         (h)   A film or television production event is considered a SPECIAL
EVENT under this chapter.
      (2)   Examples of SPECIAL EVENTS include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Filming;
         (b)   Concerts;
         (c)   Parades;
         (d)   Fairs;
         (e)   Festivals;
         (f)   Block parties;
         (g)   Community events;
         (h)   Mass participation; and
         (i)   Sporting competitions such as marathons, running events and
bicycle races.
      (3)   Activities contained in §
95.08 of this chapter are specifically excluded from the definitions of a
SPECIAL EVENT.
   SPONSOR. A property owner, person or other entity that undertakes certain
responsibilities in connection with some other person or some group or
activity, as in being an organizer, promoter, endorser, advisor, underwriter,
surety and the like.
   STANDBY SERVICE FEE. Fees charged for standby services whereby police
officers, EMS or the Fire Department station at specific locations. These fees
may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Standby Emergency Medical Services (EMS);
      (2)   Standby security/police support, including crowd control and street
closure; and
      (3)   Standby fire services.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021)
§ 95.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall have, hold, sponsor or cause to be had, held or
sponsored or allow to be had, held or sponsored any special event without
having first applied for and received a permit from the town, except as
provided in §
95.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   All applications for special event permits must be made through the
town’s Planning Department. A completed application must be submitted for each
event proposed. No application shall be considered submitted until all
information required on the application form has been provided.
   (C)   Applications for special event permits shall be submitted no less than
30 business days prior to the date of the special event. The Town Manager or
his or her designee shall have the authority to reduce this time period for
good cause shown. The appropriate fee in certified funds must accompany the
application for it to be considered to have been considered submitted.
   (D)   The town’s Planning Department will forward special event applications
for review by the Town Police Department, Town Fire Department, Town Public
Services Department and/or other departments and agencies as needed based on
the event parameters.
   (E)   Review comments on the application are due within seven days. If no
comments are received within seven days, the application may be approved and
the permit may be issued.
   (F)   For informational purposes, the following organizations may also be
notified and/or require their own permits:
      (1)   State Department of Transportation (NCDOT);
      (2)   State Highway Patrol;
      (3)   Duplin County Health Department; and
      (4)   Duplin County Inspections.
   (G)   The town may set conditions for permit approval. The applicant may be
required to pay for fire/medical standby and security/law enforcement for a
permit to be approved. The applicant may be required to pay additional fees if
town facilities/services are being used. The town may also require the rental
of portable bathrooms, lighting, trash receptacles and/or other facilities
based on the size and scope of the event.
   (H)   All special events must comply with any other local, state or federal
laws or regulations, including, but not limited to, the State Building Code,
National Electric Code and ADA requirements.
   (I)   Any person or business that routinely has 1,000 or more persons in
attendance must have a permanent special events permit issued for general
operating conditions as well as an emergency operations plan filed with the
Planning Department, except as provided in §
95.04 of this chapter. Any additional event that increases the attendance more
than double shall require a new special event permit for that specific event or
date, except as provided in §
95.08 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   All applications shall be submitted according to the special event
permit application. This document is subject to change at any time. The
application will be critical in evaluating the citizen impact and public safety
related to the event.
   (B)   Every representative shall submit a completed application, which shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of the event;
      (2)   Type of the event (concert, charity event, county fair and the
like);
      (3)   General event description (what is being offered, who is the target
audience and the like);
      (4)   Contact information for manager and sponsoring agency;
      (5)   Contact information for onsite manager(s) during the event;
      (6)   Documentation confirming sponsoring organization’s status (formal/
informal and profit/not-for-profit);
      (7)   Expected attendance;
      (8)   Crowd control plan;
      (9)   Location, site layout and parking areas;
      (10)   Planned structures (temporary or permanent);
      (11)   Whether vendors will be serving or cooking food;
      (12)   Any planned voice amplification or music;
      (13)   Planned electrical power sources;
      (14)   Planned hazardous materials;
      (15)   Alcohol sales information (subject to ABC Board approval);
      (16)   All dates that the special event will operate at the given site.
Dates not initially specified shall be subject to the acquisition of an
additional permit;
      (17)   Traffic-control plan. Including any proposed street closure or
traffic flow;
      (18)   Any other specific services requested;
      (19)   Information on county and fire support services that may be
required from:
         (a)   Security/law enforcement;
         (b)   Fire/rescue;
         (c)   Emergency medical services standby;
         (d)   Waste cleanup; and
         (e)   Any other services deemed necessary by the town, such as Public
Works and the Duplin County Health Department).
      (20)   First aid plan;
      (21)   Weather contingency plan;
      (22)   Pedestrian access and flow;
      (23)   The number of comfort facilities (restrooms) that will be
accessible. Restroom capacity must meet or exceed requirements of the State
Building Code;
      (24)   Trash and recycling facilities/provisions;
      (25)   Written consent of owner if different than sponsor; and
      (26)   Any other information reasonably required by the Planning
Department to determine the nature or scope of the event.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021)
§ 95.05 STANDARDS FOR ALL SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   All special events must comply with and provide proof of compliance
with the following:
      (1)   All federal, state, local and event sanctioning authority mandated
medical coverage requirements;
      (2)   Duplin County EMS Medical Standards for Special Events, if
applicable;
      (3)   Duplin County EMS shall be the primary service provider for Duplin
County;
      (4)   All state, federal and local fire safety and prevention standards,
codes and permitting requirements must be met; and
      (5)   Any other local, state or federal law requirements deemed necessary
for such event.
   (B)   For events where alcohol is provided, served or sold the event
organizer must secure a valid ABC permit. Copies of this permit must be
forwarded to the Planning Department prior to the event;
   (C)   Animals are not allowed at special events unless as a specified part
of an event and provided for in the application. Animals brought by spectators
or participants, except service animals, shall not be allowed;
   (D)   Event organizers shall remove all trash and debris and shall clean up
immediately after a special event;
   (E)   The town, in its discretion, may require the applicant to provide
liability and/or special events insurance coverage for the special event;
   (F)   All road closures or events that will impact traffic must be approved
by the town and/or the state’s Department of Transportation; and
   (G)   Major special events and other mass gatherings of 500 people or more
shall provide the following:
      (1)   A crowd control plan and control manager ratio of one manager per
250 people or as otherwise required by the State Fire Code;
      (2)   First aid plans, parking and traffic control plans, security/law
enforcement on site and waste disposal plans for event approval;
      (3)   Proof of $1,000,000 general liability insurance or more if deemed
necessary by the town; and
      (4)   Any other specific items requested by the town.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021)
§ 95.06 ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR TELEVISION AND FILM EVENTS.
   (A)   A pre-production meeting with the town’s Planning Department or its
designee must be held.
   (B)   Proof of insurance certificates for the following must be submitted
with the application:
      (1)   General liability insurance: $2,000,000 or more if deemed necessary
by the town;
      (2)   Automobile liability insurance: $2,000,000 or more if deemed
necessary by the town; and
      (3)   Worker’s compensation insurance as required by statute and
employer’s liability insurance of $1,000,000 or more if deemed necessary by the
town.
   (C)   A security deposit of $2,000 must be submitted with the application.
This deposit will be refunded only after the inspections as provided in §
95.12 of this chapter are complete and yield no damages. If damages are
assessed, the amount will be taken from the $2,000 deposit. Any amount
remaining after damages will be refunded within 30 days after inspections are
completed.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the television or film company to notify
the affected residents and/or businesses following the town’s approval of the
application and no less than three business days prior to the planned activity.
   (E)   Production vehicles shall not block fire hydrants, driveways or other
access ramps unless authorized by town officials.
   (F)   Production companies are responsible for vacating locations used with
a minimum amount of noise and disruption at the end of each shooting day.
   (G)   Any filming activity involving holding, delaying or rerouting of
traffic in residential areas or on state-maintained roadways must be
accompanied by at least one uniformed officer.
   (H)   The production company is fully responsible for clean-up and proper
disposal of all waste and materials produced.
   (I)   Removal or alteration of vegetation in the public right-of-way or on
town/county-owned lands is prohibited unless specifically approved by the film
permit.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 PERMIT AND OTHER REQUIRED FEES.
   (A)   The schedule of fees for permitting and other associated fees for
special events in addition to those set out herein shall be approved by the
Town Council.
   (B)   If other fees for services are required, they must be paid by
certified funds, prior to the event. These fees may include standby service
fees as determined by the town. If the event is canceled and the town is
provided 24 hours’ notice, the fees for standby service will be refunded.
   (C)   There may be other fire inspection, health and facility usage permits/
fees that may be charged. All permits pertaining to any special event must be
obtained prior to the event and copies must be submitted to Planning Department
(for example, NCDOT and ABC permit).
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021)
§ 95.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any local, state or federal governmental agency acting within the
scope of its governmental functions;
   (B)   Any school, college or university operating in Duplin County;
   (C)   Church or worship activities within a facility;
   (D)   Businesses holding events in venues designated to hold large numbers
of people, where there is already a safety and emergency plan approved by the
town; and
   (E)   Gatherings sponsored by recognized political parties or candidates
however notice of such gatherings must be given at least four days in advance
to the town’s Planning Department so it may inform those agencies listed in §
95.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021)
§ 95.09 PERMIT DENIAL.
   The town may deny an application for the following reasons:
   (A)   The special event time and location coincides with another special
event for which a permit has been issued, and it is determined that there is a
safety or logistical concern with allowing two events to proceed
simultaneously. Safety or logistical concerns could include, but not be limited
to, events that would burden the resources of law enforcement or emergency
services personnel or would create the potential for traffic hazards;
   (B)   The special event will interrupt the safe movement of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic at or contiguous to its location in a manner that cannot be
adequately controlled by the public safety departments;
   (C)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
for or at the location of the special event will interfere with the town’s
ability to provide adequate fire, law enforcement and emergency medical
services to the public;
   (D)   The town does not have adequate resources, equipment or personnel to
protect the public health and safety during the event;
   (E)   If the sponsor, landowner or any principal organizers have a record of
two or more permit violations in the previous two calendar years or more than
two violations of state or local ordinances in the previous two calendar years
resulting from the operation of a special event;
   (F)   For failure to present a plan that adequately addresses traffic,
parking, fire safety, sanitation and other matters of concern;
   (G)   The town’s Planning Department determines that the event plan does not
account for and protect the public health and safety needs of the citizens of
the town and/or Duplin County; or
   (H)   The town determines the application is misleading or is attempting to
circumvent the intent of the special event ordinance.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021)
§ 95.10 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Manager or Planning Director, acting on behalf of the town, has the
authority to revoke a special event permit if the holder of such permit fails
to comply with the provisions of this chapter or other conditions stipulated in
said permit.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021)
§ 95.11 APPEALS.
   Any applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial of a special event
permit, the conditions of a special event permit or the revocation of a special
event permit to the Town Manager. The appealing party shall make the appeal to
the Town Manager within five business days after receipt of the decision by
Town Planning Department. If the applicant wishes to appeal the Town Manager’s
decision, the appeal must be made to the Town Council of the town. The appeal
to the Town Council shall be made within five business days after receipt of
the decision by the Town Manager. If possible, the appeal to the Town Council
will be included on the next Town Council meeting agenda, taking into
consideration required agenda deadlines. A permit denied by any other
governmental agency must be appealed as allowed by law.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021)
§ 95.12 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Clean up and damage to public property. The sponsor or property owner
shall be responsible for maintaining all areas encompassed by the event in
safe, clean and orderly condition. The sponsor or property owner will be
responsible for the removal of trash or debris, restoration of damaged shrubs,
plants, turf, underground and overhead utilities, structures, irrigation, trees
and paved surfaces on any portion of publicly owned property. The town will
inspect public property for damage no later than three days after the event.
Any costs associated with such damages and their repair will be provided in a
written report to the applicant no later than seven days after the event. The
sponsor or property owner will be responsible for any repairs or costs related
to the damages incurred. If the sponsor or property owner fails to pay the town
the costs of such repairs within 30 days, then the town may seek any civil
remedy available to effect payment.
   (B)   Clean up of private property. The sponsor or property owner shall be
responsible for maintaining all areas encompassed by events on private property
in a safe, clean and orderly condition and shall be responsible for the removal
of trash or debris on any portion of private property following an event
permitted by this chapter. The town will inspect private property for trash and
debris no later than three days after the event. Any abatement necessitated by
trash or debris left on private property will follow all conditions stipulated
in the town code.
   (C)   Abatement of unsafe conditions. The Sheriff or Police Department, the
Fire Marshal, Building Inspector, Department of Environmental Health or
Planning Director or their designees may intervene in the operation of any
public or private event that based upon known or observable factors, poses an
unreasonable danger to the participants or the public, or where state or local
laws or ordinances are being violated, regardless of whether the event is
properly permitted and complying with permit requirements. Depending upon the
degree of danger, the extent of legal violations or the nature and degree of
other threats to health or safety, intervention may include suggestions for
remedial action, orders for remedial action or closing the event.
   (D)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Hold an event without a required permit;
      (2)   Fail to terminate an event upon revocation of a permit; or
      (3)   Conduct an event in violation of the terms and conditions of a
permit issued for such event.
   (E)   Enforcement. The town, by and through its duly authorized authorities,
may seek to enforce the provisions of this chapter through any appropriate
equitable remedy issued from a court of competent jurisdiction in Duplin
County.
   (F)   Event shut down. A special event for which a permit has not been
approved, an event exempt from the chapter that otherwise would require a
permit, except for the exemption, or an event for which the approved
stipulations of the permit are not met or which is otherwise in violation of
this chapter, may be shut down by law enforcement, only if either the Town
Manager, the Town Police Department or designee determines that all of the
following conditions are present:
      (1)   The special event constitutes an immediate and direct physical
danger to citizens or property; and
      (2)   The above danger is of such an imminent nature that the remedy
provided for in this chapter will not prevent the danger prior to its
occurrence.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty of $500 for the first offense and $1,000 for a
second and any subsequent offenses, as prescribed in G.S. § 160A-175. Each day
of violation shall constitute a separate offense. If a person fails to pay the
civil penalties set forth herein within thirty days after being cited for a
violation, the town may seek to recover the penalty by filing a civil action in
the nature of debt.
   (B)   Per G.S. § 14-4, any person found in violation of an ordinance of the
town may be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY
      
111.   ALCOHOL
      
112.   FOOD TRUCKS
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
114.   HEALTH SALONS AND MASSAGE PARLORS
      
115.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
      
116.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND PEDDLERS
      
117.   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
      
118.   TOWING AND STORAGE BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES AND
REGULATIONS GENERALLY
Section
Business Registration
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Construction of subchapter
   
110.03   Requirement for registration
   
110.04   Period of registration; due date
   
110.05   Separate businesses
   
110.06   Exemptions
   
110.07   Registration application
   
110.08   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a registration
   
110.09   Unqualified agents; right to a conference
   
110.10   Administrator to issue registration; payment of registration fee a
prerequisite
   
110.11   Registration fee
   
110.12   Revocation
   
110.13   Form and contents of registration
   
110.14   Assignments
   
110.15   Changes in the business conducted during the year
   
110.16   Administrator to furnish duplicates
   
110.17   Record of conferences
   
110.18   Providing notice to an agent or person
   
110.19   Duty to determine whether registration is required
   
110.20   Administrator to investigate
   
110.21   Duty to permit inspection
   
110.22   Duty to post registration
   
110.23   Enforcement
   
110.24   Appeal
Bankrupt Sales
   
110.40   When license void
   
110.41   Inventory to be filed with Town Manager
   
110.42   License must be obtained to conduct sale
   
110.43   Sales at public auction
   
110.44   Sales to be held on successive days
   
110.45   Sales to be made during certain hours
   
110.46   False bids prohibited
   
110.47   False advertisements prohibited
   
110.48   License forfeited
**** BUSINESS REGISTRATION ****
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the Town Manager to operate the
business registration program required by this subchapter.
   AGENT. An individual acting on behalf of PERSON as defined in this section.
   BUSINESS. Each trade, occupation, profession, business and franchise subject
to registration under this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, limited liability
company, company, firm or other legal entity.
   SEASONAL. A business is seasonal in nature when it is conducted for profit
six months out of the year or less.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.02 CONSTRUCTION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter is enacted for regulation purposes only. In addition,
issuance of a registration in accordance with this subchapter does not excuse a
person from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This
subchapter does not prevent the town from requiring registration for additional
businesses.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.03 REQUIREMENT FOR REGISTRATION.
   Unless exempt as described in §
110.06, each person who conducts a business within the town is subject to this
subchapter. One conducts a business within the town if one maintains a business
location within the town; or if, either personally or through agents, one
solicits business within the town limits or picks up, delivers or provides
goods or services within the town limits.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.04 PERIOD OF REGISTRATION; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Annual registrations. Unless the section of this subchapter applicable
to a particular business provides otherwise, a registration issued in
accordance with this subchapter is good for the 12-month period beginning July
1 and ending June 30.
   (B)   Registrations for periods shorter than one year. If the section of
this subchapter applicable to a particular business so provides, a registration
may be issued for a period of one day, one week or some comparable period of
less than a full registration year. A person may not commence to conduct a
business within the town until the business registration is obtained and may
not continue such a business beyond the period for which the registration is
issued.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.05 SEPARATE BUSINESSES.
   A separate registration is required for each place of business unless two or
more places of business under common ownership are contiguous to each other,
communicate directly with and open into each other, and are operated as a unit.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all businesses within the
town municipal jurisdiction unless specifically exempted or excluded from
registering by this subchapter, by the laws of the state or by laws of the
United States.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.07 REGISTRATION APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person shall apply to the administrator for each registration
required by this subchapter before commencing business. The application, which
shall be submitted on forms provided by the administrator, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the owner, and if applicable, the agent for the
business, and a complete statement as to whether the agent is an individual, a
partnership, a corporation or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The physical location of where the business is conducted;
      (4)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed to as
required by this subchapter;
      (5)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to G.S. Chapter 93B, and if so, the serial or license number of
the state registration the business or the agent for the business currently
holds; and
      (6)   Any other information the administrator determines to be necessary
to issue the registration, or otherwise regulate the business appropriately.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by the payment of a registration
fee, which is described in §
110.11. In compliance with state law, this fee shall not exceed the cost to the
town of the administrative process of the production and issuance of the
registration, or to otherwise monitor the business.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.08 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A REGISTRATION.
   The administrator shall refuse to issue a registration or may revoke a
registration for either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The owner or agent misrepresents a fact relevant to his or her
qualifications for a registration; or
   (B)   The owner or agent refuses to provide necessary information, as
determined by the administrator in his or her discretion.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.09 UNQUALIFIED AGENTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the administrator
believes that a reason exists for refusing a registration under §
110.08, the administrator shall not issue the registration. At the agent’s
request, the administrator shall in accordance with §
110.18, give the owner or agent a written statement of the reason for refusing
the registration. The owner or agent may, within ten days after the day the
statement is received, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In the
request, the owner or agent shall specify why the application for a
registration should not be refused. The administrator shall arrange the
conference within three business days of receiving the request.
   (B)   If the administrator refuses to issue a registration, the owner or
agent may reapply for a registration at any time thereafter. If the reason for
which the application was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason
exists for refusing to issue a registration, the Administrator shall issue the
registration in compliance with §
110.10.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.10 ADMINISTRATOR TO ISSUE REGISTRATION; PAYMENT OF REGISTRATION FEE A
PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application and payment of the registration
fee, if the administrator believes that no reason exists for refusal of a
registration under §
110.08, the administrator shall issue the registration.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.11 REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   The fee required of every owner or agent for any business conducted or
engaged in within the town as required by this subchapter shall be set forth
and made a part of the schedule of fees and charges adopted by the Town
Council, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the fee shall in no case be more than
the maximum permitted by state law for that particular business or enterprise.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.12 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The administrator may revoke a registration if a reason exists to
revoke it as set forth in §
110.08. Before revoking a registration, the administrator shall give the person
written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance with §
110.18. The person may, within ten days after the day on which notice is
mailed, request a conference with the administrator in writing. The request
shall specify the reasons why the registration should not be revoked. The
administrator shall arrange the conference within three business days of
receiving the request. If the person fails to request a conference within ten
days after the day on which notice is mailed, the administrator shall revoke
the registration. If the person requests a conference, the administrator may
not revoke the registration until after the conference.
   (B)   If the administrator revokes a registration, the person whose
registration has been revoked may apply for a new registration at any lime
thereafter. If the reason for which the registration was revoked no longer
exists and if no other reason exists for refusing to issue a registration, the
administrator shall issue the registration in accordance with §
110.10.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.13 FORM AND CONTENTS OF REGISTRATION.
   A registration shall show the name of the person, and any agent who may act
on the person’s behalf, the place where the business is conducted (if it is to
be conducted at one place), the nature of the business and the period for which
the registration is issued. The administrator shall keep an exact copy of each
registration issued.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.14 ASSIGNMENTS.
   A registration may be assigned if a business under this subchapter and
carried on at a fixed place is sold as a unit to any person and the purchaser
is to continue the same business at the same place. Such a change shall be
reported to the administrator in accordance with §
110.15. Otherwise, each registration issued under this subchapter is a separate
registration and is not assignable.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.15 CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED DURING THE YEAR.
   A person or an assignee shall report any change in the information contained
in the registration application to the administrator within ten days after the
change occurs. If information shown on the registration itself is affected, the
person or assignee shall surrender the registration to the administrator when
reporting the change.
   (A)   Fee for change. If the change does not result in a separate
registration fee, the administrator shall reissue a registration reflecting the
change upon payment of a processing fee of $5.
   (B)   Change requiring refusal of a registration. If the change creates a
reason for revoking the registration under §
110.08, the administrator shall refuse to reissue a registration and shall
instead begin proceedings to revoke the registration in accordance with §
110.12.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.16 ADMINISTRATOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a registration has been lost or destroyed, the
administrator shall furnish a duplicate for a processing fee of $5.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.17 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The administrator shall maintain for three years a record of each conference
held in accordance with this subchapter. The record shall contain the agent’s
and person’s name, the date of the conference and a brief statement of the
issues discussed and the result reached. After three years, the administrator
may dispose of the record in accordance with G.S. § 121-5.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.18 PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN AGENT OR PERSON.
   Whenever this subchapter requires the administrator to give a written
statement or notice to an agent or a person, the administrator may do so in one
of three ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the agent or
person;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by first class mail to the address
on the application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the agent or person
in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4 of the
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.19 DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED.
   Each person or his or her designated agent has the duty to determine whether
the business he or she conducts is required to be registered under this
subchapter, and if so, whether that registration has been obtained.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.20 ADMINISTRATOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the administrator has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the town in violation of this subchapter, the administrator shall
conduct an investigation to determine the status of the business.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.21 DUTY TO PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts a business, as defined in §
110.03, in the town shall permit the administrator to inspect the business
premises during normal business hours to determine the nature of the business
conducted therein.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.22 DUTY TO POST REGISTRATION.
   A business shall post the registration or registrations conspicuously in the
place of business registered. If the person has a regular place of business,
the registration must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by the
proper town officials.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within the town without a valid
registration issued in accordance with this subchapter, or without posting a
registration in compliance with §
110.22 is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G. S. § 14-4. Each day that
a person conducts business in violation of this subchapter is a separate
offense.
   (B)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal and civil remedies set
forth in division (A) above and in compliance with G. S. § 160A-175(d), the
town may seek an injunction against any person who conducts a business in
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 110.24 APPEAL.
   Any agent or person refused or denied a registration under this subchapter
may appeal to the Town Manager for review of such refusal or denial. Such
appeal shall be in writing, and shall be delivered to the Town Clerk within 30
days after notice of such refusal or denial has been sent or otherwise
delivered to the agent or person.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 1-14-2016)
**** BANKRUPT SALES ****
§ 110.40 WHEN LICENSE VOID.
   Any person engaged in the mercantile or other business shall make an
assignment for the benefit of creditors or when the person shall be adjudicated
a voluntary or involuntary bankrupt or declared insolvent, any license
theretofore issued authorizing the person to do business shall immediately be
terminated and shall, upon the assignment for the benefit of creditors or upon
the adjudication in bankruptcy, immediately become null and void.
(Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 110.41 INVENTORY TO BE FILED WITH TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   When any person shall purchase a stock of merchandise at a sale under
assignment for the benefit of creditors or at any sale made by the trustee in
bankruptcy and shall thereafter advertise it as bankrupt stock and offer it for
sale as such, either at retail or at auction, the person shall file with the
Town Manager a complete inventory of the stock of merchandise so purchased,
which inventory shall be verified under oath.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the person to add to the stock of merchandise
from any source whatsoever and advertise same as bankrupt stock.
(Prior Code, § 112.02)
§ 110.42 LICENSE MUST BE OBTAINED TO CONDUCT SALE.
   Upon compliance with the provisions of the foregoing section, the person
advertising the stock of merchandise as bankrupt stock and offering it for sale
as such shall apply for and obtain license from the proper authorities of the
town for the privilege of conducting the sale and shall pay a license tax
therefor of $25 per day for the first week of the sale and $50 per day for each
and every other day during the continuance of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 112.03)
§ 110.43 SALES AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether principal or agent, who has not
engaged in a permanent business for a continuous period of at least 12 months
next preceding to sell, dispose of or offer for sale at public auction or cause
or permit to be sold, disposed of or offered for sale at public auction any
gold, silver, plated ware, precious stones, semi-precious stones, watches,
clocks, jewelry, glass, fancy china, artware, novelties, silk or woolen fabrics
or furs, whether the same shall be his or her own property or whether he or she
sells the same as agents or as employees of another, until the person, by
applying to the Town Council, shall comply with each of the following
regulations and conditions:
   (A)   Procure a license from the Council by paying, as a license tax, the
sum of $100 for each month or fraction thereof that the person may be engaged
in conducting the auction sale;
   (B)   File with the Town Manager a complete inventory of all goods, wares
and merchandise to be offered at public auction, to be verified under oath;
   (C)   To file with the Town Manager a bond in the sum of $1,000, with good
and sufficient surety, for the purpose of guaranteeing a compliance with the
applicable terms of this chapter and the faithful performance of any contract
made with the customers and purchasers at the auction sale; the bonds to remain
in full force and effect for the term of 60 days after the close of the auction
sale for the purpose herein provided; and
   (D)   Provided, however, that, this section shall not apply to judicial
sales by executors and administrators, receivers or assignees in solvent and
bankrupt estates, licensed pawn brokers actually selling and disposing of goods
duly and regularly mortgaged or pledged, or sales by mortgages duly authorized
by the terms of a bonafide mortgage or pledge.
(Prior Code, § 112.04)
§ 110.44 SALES TO BE HELD ON SUCCESSIVE DAYS.
   Sales at public auction of the stock of any person, whether principal or
agent, described in §
110.43 of this chapter shall not be held on other than successive days and
shall continue not more than 30 days in all within the period of one fiscal
year, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
(Prior Code, § 112.05)
§ 110.45 SALES TO BE MADE DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   No person shall sell, dispose of or offer to sell or to dispose of at public
auction any of the goods, wares or merchandise set forth in §
110.43 of this chapter between the hours of 6:00 p.m. in the evening and the
following morning.
(Prior Code, § 112.06)
§ 110.46 FALSE BIDS PROHIBITED.
   No person at any public auction of the goods, wares and merchandise
described in §
110.43 of this chapter, shall act as bidder or what is commonly known as a
capper, booster or shiller or offer to make any false bid or falsely pretend to
buy any article at the auction sale for the purpose of deceiving the persons
attending the sale, nor shall any person conducting the auction sale receive
knowingly or permit to be made any false or boosting bids by any booster, by-
bidder, shiller or other person bidding for the purpose of boosting the prices
on articles sold or offered for sale at the auction sale.
(Prior Code, § 112.07)
§ 110.47 FALSE ADVERTISEMENTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person running and conducting a public auction
sale of any goods, wares or merchandise, described in §
110.43 of this chapter, to falsely advertise or represent the same to be
bankrupt stock or falsely advertise or represent the same as being imported or
to falsely represent the same as to brand, trademark, quality, weight or
texture.
(Prior Code, § 112.08)
§ 110.48 LICENSE FORFEITED.
   Any person licensed to conduct any auction sale under the foregoing sections
of this chapter and who has been convicted for the violation of any of the
provisions of these sections or whose agents, employees and servants engaged in
conducting the sale shall be convicted of violating any of the provisions, may
forfeit license to further conduct the auction sale as the Court or the Council
of the town may elect.
(Prior Code, § 112.09)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL
Section
   
111.01   Sale of malt beverages and wine
   
111.02   Consumption of intoxicating beverages
   
111.03   Alcohol beverage policy
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 SALE OF MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation licensed to sell
malt beverages, mixed beverages and/or wine (fortified or unfortified) for on-
premises consumption in the town between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. passed 8-10-1972; Ord. passed 12-8-1988; Ord.
passed 1-13-2022) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 CONSUMPTION OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any spirituous liquor,
malt beverages or unfortified wine as authorized by G.S. § 18B-300 on any
property owned or controlled by the town or upon any public vehicular area;
provided that, this section shall not apply to the premises of those
establishments that have an on-premises ABC permit.
   (B)   The public vehicular area shall mean and include any drive, driveway,
road, roadway, street, sidewalk, alley, parking area or other space open for
the purpose of vehicular traffic or operation upon the grounds or premises of:
any public or private hospital, college, university, school, orphanage or
church or any institution maintained and supported by the state or the town or
any service station, car wash, supermarket, store, restaurant, amusement
center, lounge, shopping center or office building or any other business or
municipal establishment or groups of such establishments providing parking
space for customers, patrons, employees or the public.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. passed 12-12-1985) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 18B-300
§ 111.03 ALCOHOL BEVERAGE POLICY.
   (A)   Overview. The consumption of alcohol beverages is a common occurrence
at special events in the town. However, efforts should be made so that the use
and consumption of alcohol beverages should not detract from the programs and
the use of facilities of the town. No use of alcohol beverages is allowed on
town property, except as permitted by this policy. ALCOHOL BEVERAGES refers to
any beverage containing at least 0.5% alcohol by volume, including malt
beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, spirituous liquor and mixed
beverages. Alcohol beverage consumption is allowed only in designated indoor
and outdoor facilities owned by the town. Any consumption of alcohol beverages
on town premises without written authorization is not permitted. Authorization
will only be given by the Town Manager or his or her designee.
   (B)   Where alcohol consumption may be allowed. Town facilities where
alcohol consumption may be allowed include:
      (1)   Town Hall;
      (2)   All parks;
      (3)   Downtown;
      (4)   Town streets and parking areas; and
      (5)   Town-leased premises.
   (C)   Alcohol beverages at non-ticketed events at town facilities. Non-
ticketed events are public or private events where no money is exchanged for
admission to the event or for consumption of alcohol beverages. By way of
illustration, such events typically would include birthday parties, reunions,
wedding receptions or events sponsored by non-profit or political
organizations. Beer and unfortified wine may be served without permit.
Spirituous liquor or fortified wine may be served but requires a limited
special occasion permit from the ABC Commission.
   (D)   Alcohol beverages at ticketed events at town facilities. TICKETED
EVENTS are public or private events where money is exchanged for admission,
participation, food or drinks. Alcohol beverages are allowed only if the
organization is a non-profit or political organization with proper ABC permits.
   (E)   General conditions. The following conditions apply to all applicants
for the consumption of alcohol beverage sales in or at town facilities.
      (1)   Applicants must have written authorization from the town.
      (2)   Applicants must obtain all appropriate town and ABC permits.
Permits must be obtained from the permits must be presented to town and/or ABC
Commission prior to the start of any event.
      (3)   Area in which consumption may take place will be designated by town
officials.
      (4)   At least one or more police officers are required to be present, as
well as the permittee shall have an ID check station. Wristbands or handstamps
may be required by any individual wishing to purchase alcohol beverages at
certain events.
      (5)   All liability and general liability insurance requirements must be
met by the permittee.
      (6)   The permittee shall follow all local and state guidelines regarding
the sale of alcohol.
      (7)   The permittee is responsible for clean up.
      (8)   The sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages at town-sponsored
events or on town property is restricted and limited to the area that is
approved as part of the authorization process.
      (9)   No person shall bring, carry or transport any alcoholic beverage
into, onto or outside the designated area for alcohol consumption at an
authorized event.
      (10)   The permittee shall be responsible for all damage to persons or
property caused by or related to event activities.
(Res. passed 4-14-2016) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of §
111.02 of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed $50 or imprisonment for up to 30 days or both within
the discretion of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 111.99) (Ord. passed 12-12-1985)
CHAPTER 112: FOOD TRUCKS
Section
   
112.01   Findings and intent
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Authorized locations and restrictions
   
112.04   Public safety and nuisance prevention
   
112.05   Permitting
   
112.06   Taxation
   
112.07   Suspension and revocation
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The town finds that allowing food truck businesses to operate in the
town would promote diversification of the town’s economic employment
opportunities and would support incubation and entrepreneurial growth
consistent with the principals of the town’s comprehensive plan.
   (B)   G.S. § 160A-174 grants cities the power to define, prohibit and
regulate acts, omissions or conditions detrimental to the health, safety or
welfare of its citizens and the peace and dignity of a town through the
creation of ordinances.
   (C)   Food truck businesses bring benefits to communities they also bring
unique regulation challenges.
(Ord. passed 12-10-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-174
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD TRUCK. A readily movable trailer or motorized vehicle, currently
registered with the State Division of Motor Vehicles, designed and equipped to
serve food as defined in NCDHHS 15A NCAC 18A.2601.
   REGULATORY FEE. A fee assessed to cover the cost of regulating a business
activity that is assessed to the business being regulated.
(Ord. passed 12-10-2020)
§ 112.03 AUTHORIZED LOCATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Food trucks may operate from 6:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m. at one location
per day within town limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ).
   (B)   Food trucks may only conduct business in the following locations:
      (1)   On privately-owned non-residential property out of the public
rights-of-way in Zoning Districts CB, HB, NB and I, subject to the approval of
the property owner. A food truck may not be located in any portion of a parking
lot when and where such location prevent the use of parking spaces during the
regular hours of operation of the primary businesses on the lot, unless the
vendor provides documentation that the property owner permits an alternative
location involving the parking spaces lost. The vending location shall not
otherwise interfere in a significant way with the movement of motor vehicles;
and
      (2)   On privately-owned non-residential property in the commercial
section of a mixed use planned development, subject to approval by the property
owner.
   (C)   The food truck shall be positioned at least 300 feet from the customer
entrance of an existing restaurant during its hours of operation, unless the
food truck vendor provides documentation that the restaurant owner supports a
closer proximity.
   (D)   The food truck shall be positioned on designated parking spaces and
shall not block drive aisles, other access to loading/service areas or
emergency access and fire lanes. The food truck must also be positioned at
least 15 feet away from fire hydrants, any Fire Department connection, driveway
entrances, alleys, handicapped parking spaces, tree trunks and vegetation.
   (E)   This chapter and its requirements, rights or privileges shall not
apply in any respect to food vending at any market, festival or activity; arts
and crafts exhibit; or event sanctioned by the town.
   (F)   This chapter and its requirements, rights or privileges shall not
apply to food vending at the Wells Stockyard Flea Market located at 1562 North
Norwood Street, Wallace, NC 28466, during its normal business hours on
Thursdays and Saturdays, not to exceed the hours from 6:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed 12-10-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE PREVENTION.
   (A)   Food truck vendors shall provide documentation of approval from the
Health Department of the county in which the food truck’s associated commissary
restaurant is located.
   (B)   Food truck vendors shall provide proof of an insurance policy issued
by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, protecting the
permittee and the town from any and all claims for damages to property and
bodily injury, including death, which may arise from operations under or in
connection with the permit. Such insurance shall name the town as an additional
insured and shall provide that the policy shall not terminate or be cancelled
prior to the expiration date without 30 days’ advance written notice to the
town. Such insurance shall afford minimum limits of $100,000 per person for
bodily injury, $300,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and $25,000 per
occurrence for property damage.
   (C)   Food truck vendors shall provide proof of commercial automobile
insurance.
   (D)   Food truck vendors shall provide proof of workers’ compensation
insurance.
   (E)   Each food truck vendor shall fully indemnify, hold harmless and defend
the town and its directors, councilors, officers, officials, agents, employees
and volunteers from and against any and all claims, damages, awards, demands,
actions, suits, liabilities, losses, settlements, judgments, costs and
expenses, including attorneys fees which arise out of or relate to the
operation of the vending or food truck business by executing an indemnification
agreement.
   (F)   Temporary connections to potable water are prohibited. All plumbing
and electrical connections shall be in accordance with the State Building Code.
   (G)   Grease must be contained and disposed of in an approved grease
receptacle located at the associated commissary.
   (H)   Gray water must be contained and disposed of in an approved grease
receptacle located at the associated commissary.
   (I)   Food trucks must have the following fire extinguisher on board during
hours of operation: minimum Class 2A, 10B and C rated extinguisher. If food
preparation involves deep flying, a Class K fire extinguisher must also be on
the truck. Fire extinguishers shall be maintained pursuant to National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 10.
   (J)   A food truck vendor shall not operate the food truck as a drive-in
window.
   (K)   The noise level from the food truck motor and generator must comply
with the town’s Noise Ordinance.
   (L)   A trash receptacle shall be provided for customers.
   (M)   If the food truck is proposed to operate after dark, the food truck
vendor shall provide appropriate lighting.
   (N)   No signage shall be allowed other than signs permanently attached to
the motor vehicle and a portable menu sign no more than six square feet in
display area on the ground in the customer waiting area.
(Ord. passed 12-10-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 PERMITTING.
   (A)   A vendor must obtain both an annual business registration and a food
truck permit in order to operate a food truck.
   (B)   A maximum of ten food truck permits will be issued for the entire
town’s corporation limits and ETJ. Changes to the limit must be authorized by
Town Council.
   (C)   In addition to the business registration and food truck permit, a
vendor must also provide the town with a Federal EIN.
   (D)   Each vendor will be subject to an annual regulatory fee in the amount
of $200 that will be assessed to cover the costs associated with regulation of
food truck businesses. The amount of the regulatory fee will be reviewed and
adjusted as necessary on an annual basis. The food truck permit will not be
issued until this regulatory fee has been paid at the Town Hall.
   (E)   A food truck will be inspected by the town prior to the issuance or
renewal of an annual food truck permit.
   (F)   Upon issuance of the annual food truck permit, the vendor will also
receive a certification sticker that must be placed upon the food truck in a
location where permits are displayed.
   (G)   The food truck permit and county health permit must be displayed
during the food truck’s hours of operation.
(Ord. passed 12-10-2020)
§ 112.06 TAXATION.
   Food truck vendors shall comply with all local, county and state retail
sales tax regulations, including food and beverage tax regulations.
(Ord. passed 12-10-2020)
§ 112.07 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The permit issued for the food truck business may be revoked if the
vendor violates any of the provisions in this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Manager may revoke a permit if he or she determines that the
food truck vendor’s operations are causing parking, traffic congestion or
litter problems either on or off the property where the use is located or that
such use is otherwise creating a danger to the public’s health or safety.
   (C)   The Town Manager reserves the right to temporarily suspend food truck
permits during times of special events in the downtown area.
(Ord. passed 12-10-2020)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violations of §§
112.03 and
112.04 of this chapter shall constitute a civil violation and subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the amount of $50. Each day that a violation
continues uncorrected shall constitute a separate violation. In addition, these
violations subject the vendor to permit revocation as outlined in §
112.07 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer and/or his or her designees are
authorized to determine the existence of the violations and to access the civil
penalties established by this chapter by issuing a citation to the person
determined to be in violation or by sending a letter to the vendor responsible
for the violation. Any such notice or citation shall state the nature of the
violation and the procedures available for review of the penalty imposed.
   (C)   Any violation and penalty assessed under this chapter may be appealed
to the Town Manager provided such appeal is filed with the Town Manager’s
office with 15 days after notice of said penalty. If an appeal is timely filed,
the Manager or his or her designee shall conduct an administrative hearing,
shall consider any information the party assessed the penalty presents, and
shall render a decision on the appeal within ten days of the conclusion of the
hearing. If no appeal is filed, the determination of the Code Enforcement
Officer or his or her designee shall be final.
   (D)   Any penalty not paid within 30 days assessment or conclusion of any
appeals taken under the provisions of this section may be recovered by the town
in a civil action in the nature of a debt. In addition to the penalties and
remedies provided by this section, the Town Manager may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-10-2020)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Carnivals, Circuses and Shows
   
113.01   Certain organizations permitted
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Written application
   
113.04   Expenditure of proceeds
   
113.05   Compensation of operation of activities
   
113.06   Length of time period
   
113.07   Selection of special committee
   
113.08   Regulations of funds; audit of account
   
113.09   Prohibited activities
**** CARNIVALS, CIRCUSES AND SHOWS ****
§ 113.01 CERTAIN ORGANIZATIONS PERMITTED.
   It is lawful for an exempt organization to advertise and conduct carnivals,
shows, circuses and parades whereby there is provided, for entertainment
purposes, rides for children such as merry-go- rounds, Ferris wheels, kiddie
cars, general amusement rides and equipment of a like manner; provided, they
are conducted in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and each and
every section herein contained.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. passed 5-13-1982)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARNIVALS, SHOWS, CIRCUSES and PARADES. An event that occurs not more often
than two times a year and is conducted in open areas, under temporary
structures or tents, and is not permanently located at the site and does not
occur at any site for a period in excess of seven consecutive days.
   EXEMPT ORGANIZATION. An organization that has been in continuous existence
within the town or county for at least one full calendar year and is exempt
from taxation under I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), (c)(4), (c)(8), (c)(10), (c)(19) or (d)
or is exempt under similar provisions of the General Statutes as a bonafide
non-profit charitable, civic, religious, fraternal, patriotic or veterans
organization or as a non- profit Volunteer Fire Department or as a non-profit
volunteer rescue squad.
   PERMITTED ACTIVITIES. Entertainment rides, informational displays, food
sales and other similar activities. However, it shall be unlawful to conduct
games of chance or any games that require an element of chance that exceeds any
element of mental or physical skill in order to win a prize.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. passed 5-13-1982)
§ 113.03 WRITTEN APPLICATION.
   The sponsoring exempt organization shall apply, in writing, to the town for
a permit to conduct the requested activity on a form and in the manner so as to
enable the town to know who is sponsoring the activity; the full scope of the
intended activity; and the names, addresses and telephone numbers of all
individuals within the sponsoring organization who are to supervise the
activity and be answerable for the conduct of the activity; with each
application, the sponsoring exempt organization shall provide the town with a
copy or the original of a determination letter from the Internal Revenue
Service or State Department of Revenue that indicates that the organization is
an exempt organization.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. passed 5-13-1982)
§ 113.04 EXPENDITURE OF PROCEEDS.
   The exempt organization may expend proceeds derived from the conduct of the
activities only for prizes, utilities, purchase of supplies and equipment, and
the payment of compensation and rent as authorized by §
113.05 of this chapter. All proceeds remaining after the above-authorized
expenditures shall inure to the benefit of the exempt organization to be used
totally for public safety, literary or educational purposes or for purchasing,
constructing, maintaining, operating or using equipment or land or a building
or improvements thereto owned by and for the exempt organization and used for
civic purposes or made available by the exempt organization for use by the
general public from time to time or to foster amateur sports competition or for
the prevention of cruelty to children or animals; provided, no proceeds shall
be used or expended for social functions for the members of the exempt
organization.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. passed 5-13-1982)
§ 113.05 COMPENSATION OF OPERATION OF ACTIVITIES.
   No person, firm or corporation may be compensated for conducting the
activity requested, except as hereafter provided.
   (A)   An exempt organization may contract with a person, firm or corporation
to provide rides, booths or other related equipment as well as the space to
house the activity requested. Any space leased for the purpose shall be at a
fixed sum and not at a percentage of receipts or proceeds and shall be at a
fixed rate not subject to change during the term of the lease. The term of the
lease shall be for the full duration of the intended activity.
   (B)   Any rides, booths or other related equipment may be rented or leased
at a fixed sum or a percentage of receipts or proceeds. In no event shall the
fixed rate or percentage amount be changed during the duration of the intended
activity; except that, the exempt organization be given a reduced fixed rate or
a higher percentage of receipts or proceeds than originally contracted for.
(Prior Code, § 114.05) (Ord. passed 5-13-1982)
§ 113.06 LENGTH OF TIME PERIOD.
   No sponsored event shall be conducted at any location for a period in excess
of seven consecutive days. In order to be conducted for a longer period at the
expiration of the initial or any subsequent seven-day period, all activities
shall totally cease for a period of 14 consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 114.06) (Ord. passed 5-13-1982)
§ 113.07 SELECTION OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE.
   The operation of the activities herein governed shall be the direct
responsibility of and controlled by a special committee selected by the
governing body of the exempt organization in the manner and form provided by
the rules of the exempt organization. Upon their selection, the members of the
committee shall register with the Town Clerk. The registration shall disclose
the identity, address and telephone numbers of all members of the committee and
the exempt organization. At least two members of the committee shall be present
at the site during all times any sponsored event is being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 114.07) (Ord. passed 5-13-1982)
§ 113.08 REGULATIONS OF FUNDS; AUDIT OF ACCOUNT.
   All funds received in connection with the conduct of any of the events
herein described shall be placed in a separate bank account. No funds may be
disbursed from this account, except for the purposes authorized by §
113.04 of this chapter. A separate account shall be maintained for a period of
two years of the amount and purpose of any disbursement. An audit of the
account shall be conducted annually by the special committee for the period
from July 1 to June 30. A copy of the audit shall be filed on or before
September 15 of each year with the town. All books, papers, records and
documents relevant to determining whether an organization shall be open to
inspection by the Town Clerk, Police Chief or their designee at reasonable
times, places and during reasonable hours.
(Prior Code, § 114.08) (Ord. passed 5-13-1982)
§ 113.09 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   Any activity herein covered that is conducted otherwise than in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter shall be illegal and unlawful, and civil
as well as criminal proceedings may be instituted to ensure compliance.
(Prior Code, § 114.09) (Ord. passed 5-13-1982)
CHAPTER 114: HEALTH SALONS AND MASSAGE PARLORS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Applicability of other licensing provisions
   
114.04   Authority to employ and train personnel
   
114.05   Filing names of employees with Chief of Police
   
114.06   Hours of operation
   
114.07   Patronage by minors
   
114.08   Massages by unlicensed persons
Licensing Regulations
   
114.20   Licensing provisions
   
114.21   Application for license
   
114.22   Qualifications of applicant
   
114.23   Issuance of license
   
114.24   Revocation of license
   
114.25   Failure to obtain license
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to protect the general health, safety,
welfare and morals of the citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   MASSEUR or MASSEUSE mean a person who applies manual or mechanical massage
or similar treatment to the human trunk or limbs.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.03 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   The general business licensing provisions, as contained in
Chapter 110 of this code of ordinances, shall also apply to persons or parties
licensed under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.07) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.04 AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY AND TRAIN PERSONNEL.
   Any applicant granted a license hereunder shall have the authority to train
masseurs and masseuses under his or her supervision in his or her studio or
establishment; provided, the licensee shall furnish to the Police Department, a
health certificate of the employee from a medical doctor, there to be kept by
the Department.
(Prior Code, § 115.08) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.05 FILING NAMES OF EMPLOYEES WITH CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all persons holding a license hereunder to
file with the Chief of Police the names of all employees, their home addresses,
home telephone numbers and places of employment.
   (B)   Changes in the list of employees with the names of new employees must
be filed with the Chief of Police within seven days from the date of any
change.
(Prior Code, § 115.09) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No masseur or masseuse or any person or party engaging in any of the
business licensed by this chapter shall engage in the business, trade,
professional, occupation or calling, except within and between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., nor shall any operator of a massage parlor or
establishment or business above-enumerated operate the same, except within and
between the aforesaid hours.
(Prior Code, § 115.11) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.07 PATRONAGE BY MINORS.
   (A)   Restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to
patronize any massage parlor or similar establishment licensed hereunder unless
the person carries with him or her at the time of the patronage a written order
directing the treatment to be given signed by a regularly licensed physician.
   (B)   Duty of operator. It shall be the duty of the operator of the massage
parlor or similar establishment licensed hereunder to determine the age of the
person patronizing the establishment and a violation of this section shall be
grounds for revocation of the license of the establishment.
(Prior Code, § 115.12) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.08 MASSAGES BY UNLICENSED PERSONS.
   Massages may be given by persons not holding a license as masseur or
masseuse; provided, the massages are given under the direct supervision of a
person having a license as a masseur or masseuse and further provided that a
person holding a license as a masseur or masseuse shall be in the same room
where the massage is being administered during the entire time of the giving of
the massage.
(Prior Code, § 115.13) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
**** LICENSING REGULATIONS ****
§ 114.20 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   The following licensing provisions hereafter specified are ordained for the
privilege of carrying on the business, trade or profession of masseur or
masseuse and for the operation or carrying on of the business, trades or
professions commonly known as massage parlors, health salons; physical culture
studios, clubs or establishments; or similar establishments wherein physical
culture, massage, hydrotherapy or other physical treatment of the human body is
carried on or practiced. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a
regularly established and licensed hospital, sanitarium, nursing home or
medical clinic, nor to the office or clinic operated by a duly qualified and
licensed medical practitioner or chiropractor in connection with his or her
practice of medicine or chiropractic; provided, however, the office or clinic
is regularly used by the medical practitioner or chiropractor as his or her
principal location for his or her practice of medicine or chiropractic.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.21 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in the business, trade or profession of
masseur or masseuse or the operation or carrying on of any businesses, trades,
professions, occupations or callings mentioned in §
114.20 of this chapter shall, before engaging in the business, trade,
profession, occupation or calling, file an application for a license addressed
to the Council.
   (B)   The applications shall be in writing and shall set forth the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant; if the applicant be a corporation,
the address or addresses of the corporation; and
      (2)   Qualifications, plainly stated and submitted together with required
exhibits annexed to the application.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.22 QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT.
   An applicant hereunder, prior to making application for a license, must have
the following qualifications.
   (A)   The applicant may be male or female and shall be required to provide
proof of good moral character and, in case the applicant is a corporation, the
corporation must be created in or domesticated by the laws of the state.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant must furnish a health certificate of a medical
doctor, which shall accompany the application as an exhibit.
      (2)   Should the applicant be a corporation, it shall furnish a
certificate to cover its agents or employees who will be actually engaged and
working under the license; provided, further, employees who begin work
following the original issuance of license under this chapter shall, likewise,
obtain the health certificates, which shall be furnished to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 115.05) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.23 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   If the application is submitted in proper form and is approved by the
Council, then the Clerk is authorized to issue a business license to the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 115.06) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.24 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, there is good cause to
revoke a license acquired hereunder, he or she shall submit a written
recommendation of revocation to the Council and, by registered mail, shall
forward to the licensee a copy of his or her recommendation. The Council shall,
thereupon, be authorized to revoke the license if, in its sound discretion, it
is in the best interest of the health, safety, welfare or morals of the people
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 115.10) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
§ 114.25 FAILURE TO OBTAIN LICENSE.
   No person shall fail to obtain a license as required herein or to continue
operation or continue to engage in any of the businesses after a license
therefor has been revoked or to violate any other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.14) (Ord. passed 11-13-1975)
CHAPTER 115: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
Taxicabs
   
115.01   Permit required
   
115.02   Application
   
115.03   Duty of Chief of Police
   
115.04   When permit granted
   
115.05   Revocation of permit
   
115.06   Permit display
   
115.07   Display of rates
   
115.08   License required
   
115.09   Liability insurance or surety bond
Short-Term Lease or Rental of Vehicles
   
115.20   Definitions
   
115.21   Collection of tax
   
115.22   Report and payment of tax
   
115.23   Taxpayer to keep records
   
115.24   Tax Collector to provide forms
 
   
115.99   Penalty
**** TAXICABS ****
§ 115.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from place to
place within the corporate limits or within a distance of five miles thereof
unless that person shall have first applied to and secured from the Council a
permit to operate a taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 116.01) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application required of applicants to drive a taxicab, as provided
in §
115.01 of this chapter, shall be made blanks furnished by the town for the
purposes and, among other things, state the name, address, physical condition,
physical description, former employers, court record and state chauffeur’s
license number.
   (B)   The application shall be and sworn to be the applicant.
   (C)   The applicant shall further appear at the office of the Police
Department for the purpose of having his or her fingerprints taken and
photograph made, both of which shall constitute a part of his or her
application.
(Prior Code, § 116.02)
§ 115.03 DUTY OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police is charged with the duty of investigating the facts
stated in application and shall report his or her findings and recommendations
to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 116.03)
§ 115.04 WHEN PERMIT GRANTED.
   If the Council finds that the applicant has not been convicted of a felony;
a violation of any federal or state statute relating to the use, possession, or
sale of intoxicating liquors; any federal or state statute relating to
prostitution; any federal or state statute relating to the use, possession or
sale of narcotic drugs; and that the applicant is a citizen of the United
States and is not a habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs and
has never been a habitual violator of traffic laws, the Council shall issue a
permit to the applicant to drive a taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 116.04)
§ 115.05 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   At any time after the issuance of a permit to any person to drive a taxicab,
the Council may revoke the permit if the person holding the permit is convicted
of:
   (A)   A felony;
   (B)   A violation of any federal or state statute relating to the use,
possession or sale of intoxicating liquors;
   (C)   A violation of any federal or state statute relating to the use,
possession or sale of narcotic drugs;
   (D)   Repeated violations of traffic laws or ordinances;
   (E)   A violation of any state or federal statute relating to prostitution;
or
   (F)   Becomes a habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs.
(Prior Code, § 116.05)
§ 115.06 PERMIT DISPLAY.
   The driver of every taxicab shall, at all times while operating the taxicab,
prominently post the permit display in the taxicab, so as to be visible to the
passengers therein, his or her permit to drive a taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 116.06) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 DISPLAY OF RATES.
   Every taxicab operated within the corporate limits or within a distance of
five miles thereof shall have, at all times, prominently posted and displayed
in the taxicab, so as to be visible to the passengers therein, the rates for
the use of the cab.
(Prior Code, § 116.07) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person, firm or corporation operating any taxicabs within the
corporate limits of the town or within a distance of five miles thereof shall
apply to and secure from the Town Clerk an annual license for the privilege of
operating each taxicab and shall pay for the license a tax in the sum of $15
for each taxicab operated.
(Prior Code, § 116.08)
§ 115.09 LIABILITY INSURANCE OR SURETY BOND.
   (A)   All taxicab operators shall secure liability insurance or enter into
bond with personal or corporate surety to be approved by the Council in the
following amounts for each taxicab operated:
      (1)   Five thousand dollars for injury to one person in case of accident;
      (2)   Ten thousand dollars for injury to more than one person in one
accident; and
      (3)   Five hundred dollars for property damage in one accident.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or attempt to operate a
taxicab within the town without first having posted the surety bond or having
secured the liability insurance herein provided for.
(Prior Code, § 116.09)
Statutory reference:
   Filing proof of financial responsibility with municipality, see G.S. § 20-
280
**** SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL OF VEHICLES ****
§ 115.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person that leases or rents a vehicle on a short-term lease or
rental basis.
   GENERAL STATUTES. The North Carolina General Statutes and any reference to a
particular section thereof shall include the same as may be from time to time
amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The amount that is or would be reported as gross receipts on
a business’s state income tax return or on the federal income tax returned
filed with the state income tax return if the state return does not separately
state gross receipts for the most recently completed tax year. Taxes collected
hereunder are not subject to the tax herein imposed and are not included in
GROSS RECEIPTS.
   LEASE or RENTAL. A transfer for consideration of the use, but not the
ownership, of property to another for a period of time.
(G.S. § 105-164.3(17))
   LONG-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. A lease or rental made under a written agreement
to lease or rent property to the same person for a period of at lease 365
continuous days.
(G.S. § 105-187.1(3))
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm or
other legal entity.
   SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. Any lease or rental of a vehicle that is not a
long-term lease or rental.
(G.S. §§ 160A-215.1(e)(2) and 105-187.1(7))
   TAX COLLECTOR. The individual appointed by the governing body (pursuant to
G.S. § 105-349), the provisions of the municipal charter to collect taxes on
behalf of the town, and any other person authorized to carry out the duties and
functions of the individual.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle of the private passenger type, including a
passenger van, minivan or sport utility vehicle;
      (2)   A motor vehicle of the cargo type, including a cargo van, pickup
truck or truck with a gross vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds or less used
predominately in the transportation of property for other than commercial
freight and that does not require the operator to possess a commercial driver’s
license; and/or
      (3)   A trailer or semi-trailer with a gross vehicle weight of 6,000
pounds or less.
(Prior Code, § 116.20) (Ord. passed 7-13-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 105-349 and 160A-215.1(e)(2)
§ 115.21 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   Every person engaged in the business of the short-term lease or rental of
vehicles at retail to the general public shall collect, at the time of the
lease or rental, the tax herein levied, place the tax so collected in a
segregated account, and thereafter remit the tax to the Tax Collector in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The taxpayer shall include a
provision in each retail short-term lease or rental agreement stating that the
percentage amount enacted by this subchapter of the total lease or rental
price, excluding sales tax, is being charged as a tax on gross receipts. The
amount of the tax shall be stated separately from the lease or rental and shown
separately on the taxpayer’s records. The tax shall be paid by the customer to
the taxpayer as trustee for and on account of the town. The taxpayer shall be
liable for the collection thereof and for its payment to the Tax Collector, and
the taxpayer’s failure to charge or to collect the tax from the customer shall
not affect the liability.
(Prior Code, § 116.22) (Ord. passed 7-13-2000)
§ 115.22 REPORT AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   Taxes levied under this subchapter are due and payable when a return is
required to be filed. Every taxpayer shall, within the time specified, submit a
return to the Tax Collector on the form prescribed by the Tax Collector. A
return must be signed by the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s agent. Returns of
taxpayers are due to the Tax Collector each month on or before the fifteenth
day of the month following the month in which the tax accrues. As provided in
G.S. § 160A-208.1, a return shall not be considered a public record and
information contained in a return may be disclosed only in accordance
therewith.
(Prior Code, § 116.23) (Ord. passed 7-13-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-208.1
§ 115.23 TAXPAYER TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The taxpayer shall keep and preserve suitable records of the gross receipts
received by the taxpayer in the conduct of business and other books or accounts
as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax for which the taxpayer
is liable under the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be the duty of the
taxpayer to keep and preserve for a period of three years all records of gross
receipts and other books and accounts described. All records, books and
accounts herein described shall be open for examination at all reasonable hours
during the day by the Tax Collector or his or her duly authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 116.24) (Ord. passed 7-13-2000)
§ 115.24 TAX COLLECTOR TO PROVIDE FORMS.
   The Tax Collector shall design, prepare, print and make available to all
taxpayers operating within the municipal boundaries of the town forms and
instructions for filling returns to ensure a full collection of and an
accounting for taxes due. The failure of any taxpayer to obtain or receive
forms shall not relieve the taxpayer from the payment of the tax at the time
and in the manner provided.
(Prior Code, § 116.25) (Ord. passed 7-13-2000)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever shall violate any provision of §
115.09 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
a penalty of $25 for each and every offense. Each day that a violation
continues to exist shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 116.99)
CHAPTER 116: ITINERANT MERCHANT AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Transient merchants, like vendors and peddlers prohibited
   
116.04   Exceptions
   
116.05   Investigation and permit
   
116.06   Permit to be carried on person
   
116.07   Permit revocation
   
116.08   Duration; renewal
   
116.09   Appeal to Town Manager
   
116.10   Soliciting alms/beggars
   
116.11   Structures
   
116.12   Public rights-of-way
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   The town, pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-178 and 160A-179, does hereby find that
it is necessary to provide regulations governing peddlers, solicitors,
itinerant merchants, salespersons, promoters and beggars. The town has
determined that the unfettered control of these types of endeavors is
detrimental to the property values and community appearances, an obstruction to
or interference with the comfortable enjoyment of adjacent property or premises
or hazardous or injurious to the health, safety or general welfare of the
public.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 160A-178 and 160A-179
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEGGAR. A person who begs or asks from someone in a public place.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. A person, other than a merchant with an established
permanent retail store in the town, who transports an inventory of goods to a
building, vacant lot or other location in a town and who, at that location,
displays the goods for sale and sells the goods for sale at retail.
   LOCALLY GROWN OR CRAFTED. Products for sale were grown in North Carolina or
South Carolina within a 100 mile-radius of the town.
   PEDDLER. All persons, firms or corporations who sell or advertise products
or services from vehicles, stands, portable facilities or open areas located
along or near public roadways.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels from place to place taking or offering to
take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for personal services
to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is
collected in advance.
   TRANSIENT/MOBILE VENDOR. A person who travels from place to place with an
inventory of goods who sells the goods at retail or offers the goods for sale
at retail and who delivers the identical goods.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020)
§ 116.03 TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, LIKE VENDORS AND PEDDLERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, entity or corporation to go in or
upon or permit his or her representative to go in or upon any public property,
private residence or premises in the town as a solicitor, beggar, peddler,
itinerant merchant or transient/mobile vendor of merchandise not having been
requested or invited so to do by the occupants of such private residence or
having secured their permission so to do for the purpose of soliciting orders
for the sale of goods, wares, periodicals or merchandise or for the purpose of
distributing, disposing of, or peddling such goods, wares, periodicals or
merchandise or in a public place or on property exposed to the public view to
sell or offer to sell goods, merchandise or services, except as provided
herein.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be lawful for a person, firm, corporation or entity to engage in
the sale of any goods as an itinerant merchant or peddler within the town
limits when the following requirements are met:
   (A)   Locally-grown, crafted, prepared and/or produced goods are allowed by
permit in commercial or business zoned districts;
   (B)   Sidewalk sales or outdoor sales conducted on the same premises by
merchants operating from a fixed business location in a building or structure;
   (C)   Short-term fundraising activities of not-for-profit organizations;
   (D)   Yard sales or garage sales conducted on the premises of the owner or
resident; provided, they are otherwise in compliance with town ordinances;
   (E)   Flea markets; provided, they are otherwise in compliance with town
ordinances; and
   (F)   Town-sponsored festivals, fairs and events.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020)
§ 116.05 INVESTIGATION AND PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or entity desiring to engage in the sale
of locally grown, crafted, prepared and/or produced goods in a commercial or
business zoned district must file with the Town Hall an application to do so.
The application must include the following:
      (1)   The name, current address and place of residence of the applicant;
      (2)   A written and signed letter or rental agreement from the owner of
the property stating that such itinerant merchant or peddler is allowed to sale
goods and/or merchandise on said owner’s property;
      (3)   The address and nature of business of the employer or principal, if
any;
      (4)   Specific detail regarding the goods or other merchandise to be
offered for sale, to include the North or South Carolina county of origin of
the items;
      (5)   Provide a valid North Carolina sales and use tax number;
      (6)   Proposed location, times and duration of sales; and
      (7)   The type of temporary structure, if any, that will be erected for
the sale of such goods or merchandise.
   (B)   The applicant shall also furnish, at the time of the filing of the
application, a valid government issued photo identification card and a permit
fee in the amount of $50.
   (C)   Town personnel shall promptly review the application submitted by the
applicant. Within seven days of the application being submitted, town personnel
shall render a decision regarding the application and either issue the permit
or mail a notice of denial for reasons stated in this section. Notice of denial
of the permit shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
address contained in the application and shall state the reasons for the
denial.
   (D)   The town shall deny the permit and identification card required by
this section under the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicant previously was refused a permit under the provisions
of this section; provided, however, any applicant denied a permit under the
provisions of this section may reapply if and when the reason for denial no
longer exists;
      (2)   The applicant made any false or misleading statement in the
application; or
      (3)   If there is a violation of any section of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020)
§ 116.06 PERMIT TO BE CARRIED ON PERSON.
   Each peddler, itinerant merchant or mobile vendor shall retain in his or her
possession the permit and identification card issued by the town at all times;
when engaged in the business of peddling, he or she must produce and show the
identification card to any police officer or official of the town when
demanded. No person issued a permit or an identification card shall alter,
remove or obliterate any entry made thereon, nor deface such permit or
identification card in any way. Each permit and identification card shall be
personal and not assignable or transferable, nor shall any permit or
identification card be used by any person other than the person to whom it was
issued.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   A permit issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
town for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the
application for a permit;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of
carrying on his or her business as a peddler, itinerant merchant or mobile
vendor;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
or
      (5)   Conducting business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   This section shall be self-executing, and the suspension or revocation
shall be effective immediately. The town shall give notice of the suspension or
revocation of a permit, and sufficient notice shall be given if mailed or
delivered to the permittee at his or her last known local address by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020)
§ 116.08 DURATION; RENEWAL.
   Any permit issued hereunder shall expire 30 days after its issuance;
provided that, such permit may be renewed for two additional 30-day periods for
a total of 90 days at the discretion of the town; provided that, all conditions
for issuance of the original permit are met and the applicant pays a renewal
fee in amount of $25 for each 30-day renewal period.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020)
§ 116.09 APPEAL TO TOWN MANAGER.
   In the event that any person desires to appeal any order, revocation or
ruling of the town staff, the Chief of Police, or any designee made under the
provisions of this section, such aggrieved person shall file written notice of
such appeal with the Town Manager, whose decision shall be final. The Town
Manager shall render a final decision within seven days of receipt of such
appeal.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020)
§ 116.10 SOLICITING ALMS/BEGGARS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of soliciting
alms or begging charity for his or her own livelihood upon the streets or
sidewalks of the town or any other public place within the town limits. It
shall also be unlawful for a person to sell or order for sale anything as an
indirect method of soliciting alms.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11 STRUCTURES.
   It shall be lawful for an itinerant merchant or peddler to erect a temporary
structure upon the ground for the display of goods and services for sale.
Structures shall include any stand or freestanding awning upon a motor vehicle
or which is taken down and disassembled on a daily basis. Such structures shall
be approved by the town personnel prior to a permit being issued.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020)
§ 116.12 PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for a peddler, itinerant merchant or transient vendor
of any kind to occupy the right-of-way for other than travel of any streets or
alleys within the town limits or to occupy any public space, except for the
stated purpose of the space and except as otherwise stated herein.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punishable pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 14-4
CHAPTER 117: ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Bars and Nightclubs
   
117.01   Location
   
117.02   Parking
   
117.03   Operating rules
**** BARS AND NIGHTCLUBS ****
§ 117.01 LOCATION.
   No bar or nightclub may be located closer than 500 feet to a church, school,
hospital, day care or other bar or nightclub.
(Prior Code, § 118.01) (Ord. passed 10-12-2000)
§ 117.02 PARKING.
   Bars and nightclubs must provide one space per every four persons based upon
the maximum occupancy as identified by the Fire Inspector. All parking must be
paved and lighted to the town’s specifications.
(Prior Code, § 118.02) (Ord. passed 10-12-2000)
§ 117.03 OPERATING RULES.
   (A)   Video poker is prohibited.
   (B)   The permit holder is responsible to prohibit any loitering in the
parking or other outdoor areas.
   (C)   No outdoor music after 11:00 p.m. is permitted and must comply with §§
92.35 through
92.38 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   All special promotional events must be reported to the Police
Department seven days prior the event.
(Prior Code, § 118.04) (Ord. passed 10-12-2000)
CHAPTER 118: TOWING AND STORAGE BUSINESSES
Section
   
118.01   Maintenance of list of eligible business
   
118.02   Qualifications
   
118.03   Contracts for towing
§ 118.01 MAINTENANCE OF LIST OF ELIGIBLE BUSINESS.
   (A)   The town shall prepare and maintain an eligible list of those persons,
firms or corporations (herein called “garages”) having businesses in the town
or within the radius of the one-mile limit thereof, who apply and qualify to
tow and store automobiles and trucks from the streets and other public places
in the town. The town shall prepare rules in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter for the qualification of garages for the eligible list.
   (B)   Any garage on the eligible list that violates any provision of this
chapter or the rules established in accordance herewith shall be subject to
removal from the eligible list after written notice. Any garage removed from
the eligible list may, within five working days of the date of the notice of
removal, request a hearing before the Town Manager to show cause why the garage
should not be removed from the list.
§ 118.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   To qualify for the eligible list, an applicant must:
      (1)   Keep his or her garage either open or available, by one business
telephone number, 24 hours per day, seven days a week;
      (2)   Have available, at all times, equipment in good condition capable
of towing any automobile, pick-up truck or motorcycle from the streets and
other public or private places in the town when called upon to do so;
      (3)   Have at or in the immediate vicinity of the garage sufficient
fenced and enclosed storage space and facilities in compliance with the Zoning
Ordinance to protect both damaged and undamaged vehicles from further damage by
exposure to the elements; and
      (4)   Provide a zoning verification letter from the appropriate town
department that states the zoning district of the applicant’s garage and
storage facility and verifies that towing services are a permitted use in such
district. The letter shall also verify that the proposed storage space and
facilities comply with the Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   The applicant must also agree to assume the obligation:
      (1)   To promptly tow and store all vehicles to be removed from the
public streets or other public places or private property upon the request of
the town;
      (2)   To issue a receipt to the town for each vehicle towed and stored
and keep the vehicle until its release is authorized by the town;
      (3)   To store damaged automobiles in such manner as to secure their
protection against further damage by the elements;
      (4)   To collect towing and storage fees from the owner of the vehicle or
by the sale of the vehicle without recourse to the town, unless it is found
that no probable cause existed for the towing pursuant to G.S. § 20-219.11;
      (5)   To pay all damages to vehicles entrusted to his or her custody as
the result of his or her negligence and to maintain, for the protection of the
vehicle owners, garage liability insurance applicable to claims arising from
tow truck operations and garbage keepers legal liability insurance, applicable
to loss or damage to vehicles within the care, custody or control of the towing
service resulting from collision, fire, vandalism, explosion, theft, windstorm,
hail or flood. Such insurance coverage shall be at least in the amount
determined from time to time by the Town Manager after consulting with the
town’s insurance advisor. To also maintain automobile liability insurance on
vehicles operated by the tow truck operator and its employees for liability for
bodily injury or property damage in an amount not less than the minimum amount
set forth in the general statutes;
      (6)   To remove from the scene of a motor vehicle accident, in which the
vehicle to be towed was involved, all glass, metal or debris caused by the
accident; and
      (7)   To comply with all applicable state, federal and local laws,
regulations and ordinances and to refrain from towing vehicles from private
parking lots unless such lots are posted as required by G.S. § 20-219.2.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 20-219.2 and 20-219.11
§ 118.03 CONTRACTS FOR TOWING.
   The Town Council may, if, in its opinion, the public interest would be
served thereby, enter into an exclusive contract with one or more persons
engaged in the towing and storage of motor vehicles, to remove the vehicles
described in this chapter from the public streets and alleys and other public
places under the control of the town on such terms and conditions as may be
mutually agreed upon. The contract so made shall be in writing; shall specify
the charges to be made for towing and storage; shall require the person
entering into the contract for the towing and storage of such vehicles to
perform the service in a manner satisfactory to the Town Council; and shall
provide for the forfeiture of the contract in the event of a violation of any
of the provisions of the contract or of any provision herein which may be
incorporated in and made a part of the contract. The contract shall further
provide that the town shall not be obligated to the person undertaking the
towing and storage of such vehicles for any damages or charges which may be
incurred in the performance of the obligation assumed by him or her but that
the charge shall be collected solely from the owner of the vehicle involved,
unless it is found that no probable cause existed for the towing of any vehicle
pursuant to G.S. § 20-219.11.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 20-219.11
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES GENERALLY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES GENERALLY
Section
   
130.01   Posting advertisements on trees and posts
   
130.02   Public nuisance affecting morals and decency
   
130.03   Obscenity; vandalism
   
130.04   Disorderly conduct
   
130.05   Curfew for minors
   
130.06   Disturbing public meetings
   
130.07   Failure to pay admission fee, transportation fares
   
130.08   Unauthorized use of police whistle
   
130.09   Trick or treating during Halloween
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS ON TREES AND POSTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to put any banner,
poster or advertisement onto any tree, light post or property of the town
without permission from the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. passed 1-28-1954) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 PUBLIC NUISANCE AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   (A)   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public morals and
decency: no person shall exhibit, display, sell or distribute any book,
pamphlet, ballad, printed paper, stereopticon slide, moving picture film or
other thing containing obscene language or any obscene prints, figures,
pictures or descriptions.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer arrests any person charged with any
offense under the provisions of this section, he or she shall seize the book,
pamphlet, ballad, printed paper, picture, slide, film or other thing and take
it into his or her custody to await the sentence of the court upon the trial of
the offender.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of distributing obscene materials when
he or she sells, lends, rents, gives, advertises, publishes, exhibits or
otherwise disseminates to any person any obscene material of any description,
knowing the obscene nature thereof, or who offers to do so or who possesses the
material with the intent so to do.
      (2)   Material is obscene when the average person, applying contemporary
community standards, would find that the work taken as a whole appeals to the
prurient interest; the work depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way,
sexual conduct specifically defined by applicable law; and the work, taken as a
whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
      (3)   Material not otherwise obscene may be deemed obscene under this
section if the distribution thereof or the offer to do so or the possession
with intent to do so is a commercial exploitation of erotica solely for the
sake of prurient appeal.
(Prior Code, § 131.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 OBSCENITY; VANDALISM.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   Do an obscene act in any public place;
   (B)   Write obscene language or make obscene marks or drawings on any fence
or wall in any public place; and/or
   (C)   Cut or disfigure the street, walls or fences.
(Prior Code, § 131.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful to commit a breach of peace or engage in riotous or
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 132.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section shall be to establish a curfew for minors
in the town, thus assisting the parents and guardians of minors in the ever-
increasing difficult task of child rearing and to promote the health, safety
and welfare of both minors and adults in the town by creating an environment
offering protection and security for all concerned.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GUARDIAN. One who legally has the care and management of the person of a
child defined as a minor by this section.
      MINOR. A person who has not reached his or her sixteenth birthday and is
not married, emancipated or a member of the armed services of the United
States.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Areas such as, but not limited to, all common areas open to
all for common use; alleys, streets or public places or places of business and
amusement; public vehicular areas, highways and parks; and establishments open
to the public for the conduct of business.
   (C)   A curfew applicable to minors is established and shall be enforced as
follows.
      (1)   Time limits. It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon any
public place, as defined in this section, in the town between midnight on
Friday and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or between midnight on Saturday and 5:00 a.m.
on Sunday or between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following
morning on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday.
      (2)   Exceptions. The restrictions provided by division (C)(1) above
shall not apply to any minor who is accompanied by a guardian, parent or other
person charged with the care and custody of the minor or other responsible
person over 18 years of age nor shall the restriction apply to any minor who is
traveling between his or her home or place of employment, church, municipal
building or school where a function is being held.
      (3)   Responsibility of adults. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian
or other person charged with the care and custody of any minor to allow or
permit the minor to be in or upon or remain in or upon a public place within
the town within the curfew hours set by division (C)(1) above, except as
otherwise provided in division (C)(2) above.
      (4)   Responsibility of business establishments. It is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation operating a place of business or amusement to allow
or permit any minor to be in or upon or to remain in or upon any place of
business or amusement operated by them within the curfew hours set by division
(C)(1) above, except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) above.
      (5)   Enforcement.
         (a)   When a minor is found to be in violation of this section, the
officer will, by telephone, check with the Town Police Department to determine
if the juvenile is a first offender. If the juvenile is a first offender, he or
she will be taken to the residence of his or her parent or guardian. A written
warning will be given to that adult and an information report taken by the
officer, to include the name of the juvenile and adult and the time, date and
location of the offense. This report will be turned in to the Police
Department. A copy of the report will be forwarded to the Juvenile Officers of
the Police Department.
         (b)   If, upon checking with the Police Department, the juvenile is
found to be a repeat offender, he or she will be taken to the residence of his
or her parent or guardian, and the adult will be subject to a criminal citation
pursuant to division (C)(6) below. A report will be turned in to the Police
Department and entered into the Police Department record system. A copy of the
report will be forwarded to the Juvenile Officers of the Police Department.
         (c)   If the juvenile is under 12 years of age, a report will be made
and a copy forwarded to the County Department of Social Services.
      (6)   Aiding and abetting by adult, guardian or parent. It shall be a
violation of this section for an adult, guardian or parent to allow, permit,
encourage, aid or abet a minor in the violation of division (C)(1) above,
except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) above.
      (7)   Refusal of guardian or parent to take custody of a minor. If any
guardian or parent refuses to take custody of his or her minor child found in
violation of this section, the officers with custody of the minor shall contact
the county’s Department of Social Services and release the minor to that
agency, pending further investigation by the Police Department and the
Department of Social Services. The adult will be subject to a criminal citation
pursuant to division (C)(6) above.
      (8)   Emergency curfew. Under the authority of G.S. § 166A-19.15,
whenever the Mayor of the town deems that an emergency exists and there is a
clear and present danger to the preservation of the public peace, health, life
or safety or to public or private property in the town necessitating expansion
of the curfew provisions set forth in division (C)(1) above, the Mayor may
effect the expansion effective for the period of the emergency by proclamation.
The proclamation shall contain a statement of the reasons for the necessity,
the period of the expanded curfew and provide that no minor under the age of 16
shall be upon or about or remain upon or about public places, as defined by
this section, in the town between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the
following morning unless accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or
responsible adult. The proclamation may further provide that no parent or
guardian of any minor under the age of 16 shall allow the child to be upon or
about or remain upon or about any public place, as defined by this section, in
the town between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following morning
unless the child is under direction or protection of some adult person with
authority and consent of the parent or guardian for his or her being there. The
proclamation shall become effective 30 minutes after being publicly announced
by the Mayor for the period or until rescinded by the Mayor or repealed by
Council in the manner in which ordinances are repealed. As soon as is
reasonably possible, the proclamation shall be published and reported in the
local media and posted conspicuously about the town.
(Prior Code, § 132.02) (Ord. passed 7-9-1992) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 166A-19.15
§ 130.06 DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   Any person who shall be found guilty of disorderly conduct at any exhibition
or public meeting, at any public hall, at any church or place of worship or any
other place or who shall, in any way, annoy or disturb the audience shall be
subject to the penalties of this section.
(Prior Code, § 132.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 FAILURE TO PAY ADMISSION FEE, TRANSPORTATION FARES.
   No person shall attend any show or other amusement without paying the
prescribed fee. No person, except persons entitled to free transportation,
shall ride upon any bus, taxicab or other public conveyance without paying
therefor the fare prescribed or allowed by law.
(Prior Code, § 132.04) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF POLICE WHISTLE.
   No person, without special authority from the Police Department or Fire
Department, shall carry or use any whistle, bell, horn or siren similar in
appearance or sound to the whistles, horns or sirens used by the Police or Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 132.05) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 TRICK OR TREATING DURING HALLOWEEN.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HALLOWEEN TREATING. To ask, solicit or receive any candy, fruit, edible
items, toys, prizes or other items of amusement.
      HALLOWEEN TRICKS. For any person of any age to annoy any person by
playing abusive or ridiculous tricks upon him or her; to frighten, harass or
subject a person to personal indignity; or to destroy or otherwise deface any
publicly- or privately-owned real or personal property owned or controlled by
another person, firm or corporation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person of the age of 12 years or older to
engage in what is known as trick or treating during Halloween or to aid or abet
any other persons in this activity.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in trick or treating
after 9:00 p.m.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to persons who are engaged in organized
charitable collections or activities, so long as such persons have in their
possession signed statements by the person in charge of the charitable activity
authorizing the named individual to engage in the activity which is therein
specified; nor shall this section apply to organized and supervised parties or
gatherings, so long as the parties or gatherings do not take place on more than
one individual’s property.
(Prior Code, § 132.06) (Ord. passed 9-9-1971) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   The punishment for violation of §
130.05 of this chapter shall be a fine of up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to
six months.
(Prior Code, § 132.99) (Ord. passed 7-9-1992)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
151.   TREES
      
152.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
153.   MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
      
154.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
      
155.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
156.   SUBDIVISION
      
157.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
150.01   Obstructions
   
150.02   Garbage on public ways
   
150.03   Garbage and refuse on streets and sidewalks
   
150.04   Merchandise on streets
   
150.05   Bicycles, motorcycles and skateboards on public sidewalks
Statutory reference:
   General authority over streets, sidewalks and other public ways, see G.S. §
160A-296
§ 150.01 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   The following obstructions shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of
the town:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 12 hours after the
snow and ice has ceased to be deposited thereon;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons from having a clear vision of traffic approaching an intersection from
cross streets in sufficient time to bring a motor vehicle driven at reasonable
speed to a full stop before the intersection is reached;
   (C)   All limbs of trees, shrubs and other vegetative growth which is less
than eight feet above the surface of any public sidewalk or 12 feet above the
surface of any street;
   (D)   All wires which are strung less than 15 feet above the surface of the
ground;
   (E)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the streets and sidewalks;
   (F)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over the
streets or sidewalks or so situated as to endanger public safety not
constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance; and
   (G)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 98.01) (Ord. passed 1-13-2005)
§ 150.02 GARBAGE ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization or private
corporation to place or leave or cause to be placed or left temporarily or
permanently any trash, refuse, garbage or scrapped or junked automobile, truck
or other motor vehicle or parts thereof on the right-of-way of any public road
within the municipal limits of the town, unless the refuse, garbage, scrapped
or junked motor vehicle, or parts thereof is placed in a designated location or
container for removal by a specific garbage or trash service collector.
   (B)   The placing or leaving of the articles or matter forbidden by this
section shall, for each day or portion thereof that the articles or matter are
placed or left, constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 98.02) (Ord. passed 4-25-1974)
§ 150.03 GARBAGE AND REFUSE ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to clean fish, chickens or any other fowl
or animals and throw or leave offal therefrom on any street, sidewalk or vacant
lot within the corporate limits of the town.
      (2)   All garbage, bones, meat scraps, offal, feathers, produce and other
waste matter that attract and encourage rodent, fly and mosquito breeding shall
be collected and stored in standard metal garbage cans with covers pending
collection by the town. The garbage cans must not exceed a 35-gallon capacity.
Each establishment or dwelling shall provide an adequate number of containers
of sufficient size to provide for their own needs.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to dump paper, trash, refuse or filth of any kind
on any sidewalk, street, alley or vacant lot.
(Prior Code, § 98.03) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.04 MERCHANDISE ON STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to display, place, cause to be placed, sell or
offer for sell any article of merchandise on any street or sidewalk of the
town, except as hereinafter permitted by this section.
   (B)   (1)   The following articles of merchandise and/or activities shall be
excepted from the application of this section.
      (2)   Between the hours of 8:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through
Saturday, February 15 through October 15, it shall be lawful for any
established business holding a valid privilege license and having a permanent
fixed location within the town to display seasonal merchandise for sale in
front of and immediately adjacent to the business location upon the following
terms and conditions.
         (a)   No goods or wares shall contain or, in any way, expose sharp or
pointed edges so as to endanger passers-by.
         (b)   No goods, wares or the containers in which they are located
shall project further than 29 inches from the outside of the exterior wall and/
or window of the business structure onto a sidewalk or public access area or
exceed a height of three feet, as displayed as measured from the sidewalk and/
or public access area surface.
         (c)   SEASONAL MERCHANDISE shall be defined so as to include only
those items listed herein: flowers; flower plants; flower pots; and plant
holders.
         (d)   No display shall contain any sound amplification device nor
shall any business cause any sound amplification device to be used to attract
patrons or that shall cause an audible sound to be capable of being heard
outside of the business structure.
(Prior Code, § 98.04) (Ord. passed 3-10-1989)
§ 150.05 BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle, motorcycle or skateboard on the
public sidewalk with the exception of when this movement is proceeding across
the sidewalk at a private driveway or alleyway where the movement is necessary
to enter into a public street.
   (B)   This amendment shall be in full force and effect on and after 12-1-
1988, until otherwise modified.
(Prior Code, § 98.05) (Ord. passed 11-10-1988)
CHAPTER 151: TREES
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Permitted species
   
151.04   Spacing and distance
   
151.05   Utilities
   
151.06   Public tree care
   
151.07   Pruning standards
   
151.08   Tree topping
   
151.09   Pruning and corner clearance
   
151.10   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
151.11   Removal of stumps
   
151.12   Protection of trees
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public
health, safety and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the
planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 98.20) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the town or to which the
public has free access as park.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation
within public rights-of-way or on municipal property.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the town.
(Prior Code, § 98.21) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005)
§ 151.03 PERMITTED SPECIES.
   The town shall maintain a list of desirable trees for the planting along
streets in three size classes based on mature height: small (under 20 feet),
medium (20 to 40 feet) and large (over 40 feet). Efforts shall be made to
ensure a sufficient diversity of tree species. The town will also create lists
of trees not suitable for planting.
(Prior Code, § 98.23) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005)
§ 151.04 SPACING AND DISTANCE.
   (A)   Spacing. The spacing of trees will be in accordance with the tree
species size classes listed in §
151.03 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer together than the
following: small trees, 15 feet; medium trees, 25 feet; and large trees, 35
feet; except in special plantings designed or approved by a certified arborist
or landscape architect.
(Prior Code, § 98.24)
   (B)   Distance from curb and sidewalk. The distance trees may be planted
from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three
species size classes listed in §
151.03 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or
sidewalk than two feet for small trees and three feet for medium or large
trees.
(Prior Code, § 98.25)
   (C)   Distance from street corners and fire hydrants. No street tree shall
be planted within 35 feet of any corner, measured from the point of nearest
intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street tree shall be planted within ten
feet of any fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 98.26)
(Ord. passed 11-10-2005) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 UTILITIES.
   No street trees, other than those species accepted as “small trees” by the
town, may be planted under or within ten feet of any overhead utility wire.
(Prior Code, § 98.27) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of the public grounds.
   (B)   The town may remove or cause to be removed any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason of its nature, is injurious
to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public
improvements or is affected by any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
(Prior Code, § 98.28) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005)
§ 151.07 PRUNING STANDARDS.
   All tree pruning on public property shall conform to the American National
Standards Institute Title Tree Care Operations - Tree, Shrub, and Other Woody
Plant Maintenance Standard Practices (ANSI A300 Part 1-2001). ANSI A300
provides standard definitions for tree care maintenance; performance standards
for tree pruning operations; performance standards for utility line clearance;
and performance standards for writing tree pruning specifications. This
standard was listed for public review in the 12-15-2000 issue of Standards
Action.
(Prior Code, § 98.29) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person to top any street,
park or publicly-owned tree on public property. TOPPING is defined as the
severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter
within the tree’s crown to a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree. Crown reduction by a qualified arborist may be substituted,
where appropriate. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes or certain
trees under utility wires or other obstructions where pruning practices are
impractical may be exempt from this chapter at the determination of the town.
(Prior Code, § 98.30) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 PRUNING AND CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the town shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not severely
obstruct the light from any street light or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of 13 feet above street
surface of eight feet above the sidewalk surface. The owners shall remove all
the dead, diseased, or dangerous trees or broken or decayed limbs, which
constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The town shall have the right
to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the
proper spread of light along the street from a streetlight, or interferes with
visibility of any traffic control device or sign or sight triangle at
intersections.
   (B)   Tree limbs that grow near high voltage electrical conductors shall be
maintained clear of the conductors by the electric company in compliance with
any applicable franchise agreements. The utility company and the town, prior to
any trimming by the utility company, must review a utility tree trimming
policy.
(Prior Code, § 98.31) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005)
§ 151.10 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The town shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the town when the trees constitute a hazard to
life and property or harbor insects or diseases which constitute a potential
threat to other trees in the town. The town will notify, in writing, the owners
of the trees. The owners, at their own expense, shall do removal within 60 days
after the date of service of notice. In the event of failure of owners to
comply with the provisions, the town shall have the authority to remove the
trees and charge the cost of removal to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 98.32) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005)
§ 151.11 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street, park and publicly-owned trees shall be removed below
the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above
the surface of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 98.33) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.12 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   In order to maintain the overall forest, reasonable efforts shall be
made to replace trees that are removed and to protect the quality of trees that
are endangered.
   (B)   Trees removed by decision of the town or by natural causes shall be
replaced somewhere in the forest on a one-for-one basis within one year. The
town shall determine the location and species of any replacement tree.
(Prior Code, § 98.34) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 98.99) (Ord. passed 11-10-2005)
CHAPTER 152: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
   
152.01   Generally
§ 152.01 GENERALLY.
   For minimum housing standards, see the town’s Unified Development Ordinance.
CHAPTER 153: MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
Section
Airport Zoning Code
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Zones
   
153.04   Height limitations
   
153.05   Use restrictions; non-conforming uses
   
153.06   Permits
   
153.07   Enforcement
   
153.08   Board of Adjustment
   
153.09   Appeals; judiciary review
Minimum Standards
   
153.20   Definitions
   
153.21   Fixed base operator (FBO); special aviation service organizations
(SASO); independent operators (IO)
   
153.22   General minimum standard requirements
   
153.23   Proposed construction; capital improvements
   
153.24   Staffing and employment conditions
   
153.25   Lease and insurance conditions
   
153.26   Minimum standards for commercial aeronautical activities
   
153.27   Receiving and processing applications
   
153.28   Lease termination
   
153.29   Amendments, violations, changes
Airport Rules and Regulations
   
153.40   Authority and application
   
153.41   Definitions
   
153.42   Delegated powers; liability; compliance
   
153.43   Airport leases
   
153.44   Air traffic procedures
   
153.45   Airport operating procedures
   
153.46   Aircraft maintenance
   
153.47   Fueling
   
153.48   Airport motor vehicle operation
   
153.49   Fire procedures
   
153.50   Airport security
   
153.51   Through-the-fence operations
   
153.52   Violations; FAA regulations
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Model Airport Zoning Act, see G.S. §§ 63-30 et seq.
   Specific powers of municipalities operating airports, see G.S. § 63-53
**** AIRPORT ZONING CODE ****
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town Municipal
Airport Zoning Code”.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. passed 3-14-1963)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Town Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure, tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for or is otherwise hazardous to the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking-off at the airport.
   AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT. The point established as the approximate geographic
center of the airport landing area and so designated.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board consisting of five members appointed by the
Town Council, as provided in the general statutes.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this subchapter and shown on the Zoning Map, the datum shall be mean
sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway equipped or to be equipped with electronic or
visual air navigation aids adequate to permit the landing of aircraft under
restricted visibility conditions.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, take-off or
taxiing of aircraft.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any structure, tree or use of land which is lawfully in
existence at the time the regulation is prescribed in the subchapter or an
amendment thereto becomes effective and does not then meet the requirements of
the regulation.
   NON-INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway other than an instrument runway.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or body politic and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian or other representative.
   RUNWAY. The paved surface of an airport landing strip.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by humans including, but
without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission
lines.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. passed 3-14-1963)
§ 153.03 ZONES.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, there are
created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying
within the instrument approach zones, non-instrument approach zones, transition
zones, horizontal zones and conical zone. The areas and zones are shown on the
Town Municipal Airport Zoning Map, which is incorporated by reference and made
a part hereof.
   (B)   The various zones are established and defined as follows.
      (1)   Instrument approach zone. An instrument approach zone is
established at each end of the instrument runway for instrument landings and
take-offs. The instrument approach zones shall have a width of 1,000 feet at a
distance of 200 feet beyond each end of the runway, widening thereafter
uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at a distance of 50,200 feet beyond each
end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of
the runway.
      (2)   Non-instrument approach zone. A non-instrument approach zone is
established at each end of all non-instrument runways on the Town Municipal
Airport for non-instrument landings and take-offs. The non-instrument approach
zone shall have a width of 250 feet at a distance of 200 feet beyond each end
of the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a distance of 10,200 feet
beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation of the
centerline of the runway.
      (3)   Transition zones. Transition zones are established adjacent to each
instrument and non-instrument runway and approach zone, as indicated on the
Zoning Map. Transition zones symmetrically located on either side of runways
have variable widths, as shown on the Zoning Map. Transition zones extend
outward from a line 125 feet on either side of the centerline of the non-
instrument runway for the length of the runway plus 200 feet on each end and
500 feet on either side of the centerline of the instrument runway for the
length of the runway, plus 200 feet on each end and are parallel and level with
the runway centerlines. The transition zones along the runways slope upward and
outward one foot vertically for each seven feet horizontally to the point where
they intersect the surface of the horizontal zone. Further, transition zones
are established adjacent to both instrument and non-instrument approach zones
for the entire length of the approach zones. These transition zones have
variable widths, as shown on the Zoning Map. The transition zones flare
symmetrically with either side of the runway approach zones from the base of
the zones and slope upward and outward at the rate of one foot vertically for
each seven feet horizontally to the points where they intersect the surfaces of
the horizontal and conical zones. Additionally, transition zones are
established adjacent to the instrument approach zone where it projects through
and beyond the limits of the conical zone, extending a distance of 5,000 feet
measured horizontally from the edge of the instrument approach zones at right
angles to the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (4)   Horizontal zone. A horizontal zone is established as the area
within a circle with its center at the airport reference point and having a
radius of 5,000 feet. The horizontal zone does not include the instrument and
non-instrument approach zones and the transition zones.
      (5)   Conical zone. A conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a distance of 3,000 feet. The conical zone does not include the instrument
approach zones and transition zones.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. passed 3-14-1963)
§ 153.04 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no structure or tree
shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or maintained in any zone created by
this subchapter to a height in excess of the height limit established for the
zone. The height limitations are computed from the established airport
elevation and are established for each of the zones in question as follows:
      (1)   Instrument approach zone. One foot in height for each 50 feet in
horizontal distance beginning at a point 200 feet from the end of the
instrument runway and extending to a distance of 10,200 feet from the end of
the runway; thence one foot in height for each 40 feet in horizontal distance
to a point 50,200 feet from the end of the runway; thence one foot in height
for each 40 feet;
      (2)   Non-instrument approach zones. One foot in height for each 40 feet
in horizontal distance beginning at a point 200 feet from the end of the non-
instrument runway and extending to a point 10,200 feet from the end of the
runway;
      (3)   Transition zones. One foot in height for each seven feet in
horizontal distance beginning at any point 125 feet normal to and at the
elevation of the centerline of non-instrument runways extending 200 feet beyond
each end thereof, and 500 feet normal to and at the elevation of the centerline
of the instrument runway, extending 200 feet beyond each end thereof, extending
to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation which is 37.50 feet above
mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are established height
limits of one-foot vertical height for each seven-feet horizontal distance
measured from the edges of all approach zones for the entire length of the
approach zones and extending upward and outward to the points where they
intersect the horizontal or conical surfaces. Further, where the instrument
approach zone projects through and beyond the conical zone, a height limit of
one foot for each seven feet of horizontal distance shall be maintained
beginning at the edge of the instrument approach zone and extending a distance
of 5,000 feet from the edge of the instrument approach zone measured normal to
the centerline of the runway extended;
      (4)   Horizontal zone. One hundred fifty feet above the airport elevation
or a height of 187.50 feet above mean sea level; and
      (5)   Conical zone. One foot in height for each 20 feet of horizontal
distance beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone, extending to a
height of 337.3 feet above the airport elevation.
   (B)   Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more
restrictive limitation shall prevail.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as prohibiting the
growth, construction or maintenance of any tree or structure to a height up to
45 feet above the surface of the land.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. passed 3-14-1963)
§ 153.05 USE RESTRICTIONS; NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Use restrictions. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
subchapter, no use may be made of land within any zone established by this
subchapter in such a manner as to create electrical interference with radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for flyers to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the flyers
using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport or
otherwise endanger the landing, taking-off and maneuvering of aircraft.
(Prior Code, § 150.05)
   (B)   Non-conforming uses.
      (1)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
subchapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other
changes or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the
regulations as of the effective date of this subchapter or otherwise interfere
with the continuance of any non-conforming use. Nothing herein contained shall
require and change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any
structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the
effective date of this subchapter and is diligently prosecuted.
      (2)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of
this section, the owner of any non-conforming structure or tree is required to
permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon of the markers and
lights as shall be deemed necessary by the airport engineers to indicate to the
operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport, the presence of the
airport hazards. The markers and lights shall be installed, operated and
maintained at the expense of the town.
(Prior Code, § 150.06)
(Ord. passed 3-14-1963) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 PERMITS.
   (A)   Future uses.
      (1)   Except as specifically provided in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)
(1)(c) hereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established
in any zone created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and
granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the
permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined,
whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the regulations
herein prescribed. If the determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall
be granted.
         (a)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
the conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less
than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when because of
terrain, land contour or topographic features the tree or structure would
extend above the height limits prescribed for the zone.
         (b)   In areas lying within the limits of the instrument and non-
instrument approach zones but at a horizontal distance of not less than 4,200
feet from each end of the runways, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when
the tree or structure would extend above the height limit prescribed for the
instrument or non-instrument approach zone.
         (c)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground,
except when the tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for the
transition zones.
      (2)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration or
growth of any structure or tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this subchapter, except as set forth in §
153.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a non-conforming use,
structure or tree to be made or become higher or become a greater hazard to air
navigation than it was on the effective date of this subchapter or any
amendments thereto or than it is when the application for a permit is made.
Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Wherever the Town Council
determines that a non-conforming structure or tree has been abandoned or more
than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall be
granted that would allow the structure or tree to exceed the applicable height
limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   (D)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure or permit the growth of any tree or use his or her property not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this subchapter may apply to the
Board of Adjustment for a variance from the regulations. The variances shall be
allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the
regulations would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and
the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest, but will do
substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this subchapter.
   (E)   Hazard marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may, if
the action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this subchapter and
be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner
of the structure or tree in question to permit the town at its own expense to
install, operate and maintain thereon the markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an airport hazard.
(Prior Code, § 150.07) (Ord. passed 3-14-1963)
§ 153.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to the Building Inspector upon a form furnished by him or her.
Applications required by this subchapter to be submitted to the Building
Inspector shall be promptly considered and granted or denied by him or her.
Applications for action by the Board of Adjustment shall be forthwith
transmitted by the Town Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 150.08) (Ord. passed 3-14-1963)
§ 153.08 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   There is created a Board of Adjustment to have and exercise the
following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Building Inspector in the enforcement of this
subchapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
subchapter upon which the Board of Adjustment under the regulations may be
required to pass; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members appointed by the
Town Council and each shall serve for a term of three years and until his or
her successor is duly appointed and qualified. Of the members first appointed,
one shall be appointed for a term of one year, two for a term of two years and
two for a term of three years. Members shall be removable by the appointing
authority for cause, upon written charges, after a public hearing.
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its convenience
and procedure in harmony with the provisions of this subchapter. Meetings of
the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at
such other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson or,
in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel
the attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
public.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such facts and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office
of the Town Administrator and shall be a public record.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from the facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Building Inspector or to decide in favor of the applicant
of any matter upon which it is required to pass under this subchapter or to
effect any variation in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.09) (Ord. passed 3-14-1963)
§ 153.09 APPEALS; JUDICIARY REVIEW.
   (A)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision of
the Building Inspector made in his or her administration of this subchapter, if
of the opinion that a decision of the Building Inspector is an improper
application of these regulations, may appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time, as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the Town
Administrator a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Town
Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      (3)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed, except by the order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the
agency from which the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of
this subchapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make the order,
requirement, decision or determination, as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 150.10)
   (B)   Judicial review. Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any
decision of the Board of Adjustment may appeal to the County Superior Court, as
provided in G.S. § 160A-388 of the public laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 150.11) (Ord. passed 3-14-1963)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-388
**** MINIMUM STANDARDS ****
§ 153.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity which involves, makes possible or is
required for the operation of aircraft, or which contributes to or is required
for the safety of such operations.
   AIR CHARTER. An FAA-certified commercial operator providing on-demand, non-
scheduled service of persons or property for hire.
   AIRPORT. The Wallace-Pender Airport (Henderson Field) (ACZ), North Carolina.
   AIRPORT COMMISSION (COMMITTEE). An advisory group appointed by the Town
Council charged with overseeing the supervision of airport activities.
   AIRPORT MANAGER. The representative of the town having day-to-day oversight
of airport activities. If no individual is designated with such charge, this
responsibility is retained by the Airport Commission.
   AIRPORT OWNER. The Town of Wallace, as Airport Sponsor.
   COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. A person or business providing goods and
services to the aviation public for which compensation is received.
   COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL OPERATOR (OPERATOR) or FIXED BASE OPERATOR (FBO) or
SPECIAL AVIATION SERVICE ORGANIZATION (SASO) or INDEPENDENT OPERATORS (IO). A
person or aeronautical business offering or supporting general aviation
services.
   EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS. Excluding a person from enjoying or exercising privileges
conferred on one or more parties by excluding others by unreasonable standards
or requirements.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   HANGAR. A building providing shelter or enclosed space for the storage or
aircraft or aircraft parts.
   LEASE. An executed contract, in writing and enforceable by law, granting
interests in property or the conduct of certain activities.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any powered ground vehicle.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, association, commercial business
or corporation.
   STATE. The NCDOT, Division of Aviation (NCDOA).
   TENANT. A person who leases or subleases real property and whose premises
has access to the airport.
   THROUGH-THE-FENCE. Any use of the airport public landing areas by any person
offering aeronautical activity or by aircraft based on land adjacent to, but
not a part of, the airport property.
   TOWN. The Town of Wallace, North Carolina.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The governing body lawfully empowered to exercise legal
control over the airport.
(Ord. passed - -2019)
§ 153.21 FIXED BASE OPERATOR (FBO); SPECIAL AVIATION SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS
(SASO); INDEPENDENT OPERATORS (IO).
   (A)   No commercial enterprise of any kind or type shall conduct commercial
aeronautical activities on or at the airport unless specifically authorized in
writing by the Town Council.
   (B)   The privilege of using the airport and its facilities shall impose
full responsibility and risk by the operator thereof and shall release and hold
harmless and indemnify the town and its agents from any liability or charges of
loss resulting from such use, as well as claims of third persons using the
airport.
      (1)   FBO/SASO/IO commercial designation. In all cases, the Town Council
will determine if the aeronautical activity qualifies as a commercial
aeronautical activity. If determined to be commercial, the person or business
shall conform to the requirements of the Town Municipal Airport “Minimum
Standards For Commercial Activities”.
      (2)   FBO/SASO/IO compliance. All fixed base operators (FBO), special
aviation service organizations (SASO) and independent operators (IO) shall
comply fully with this subchapter and applicable regulations contained in §§
153.40 through
153.52 of this chapter, as adopted and amended.
      (3)   FBO/SASO/IO discrimination. No person shall be denied service
because of their race, national origin or gender. The operator shall offer and
provide services in accordance with the provisions of Title VI of the Civil
Rights Acts of 1964 (Pub. Law No. 88352). Accordingly, no person shall be
denied equal services on the ground of race, color or national origin in
accordance with Regulation DOT part 21.
(Ord. passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.22 GENERAL MINIMUM STANDARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The operating standards outlined below are the minimum threshold
requirements for commercial aeronautical operators (fixed base operator,
special aviation service organization and/or independent operators) as a
condition of the operator’s right to lease premises and provided services on
and at the airport.
   (B)   The following shall apply to all prospective operators as disclosure
of adequate intent and resources to offer or conduct commercial aeronautical
activity at the airport.
      (1)   Prior to initiating operations or providing services at the
airport, operators must be a party to a fully-executed lease or rental
agreement with the Town Council.
      (2)   Any executed agreement or lease with an operator shall be
subordinate to the provisions of any existing or future airport property
agreements or grant assurances relative to the operation or maintenance of the
airport, as agreed between the Town Council/Airport Sponsor and the United
States government and/or the state.
      (3)   The operator ground lease or operating agreement shall not include
any of the airfield or taxiway systems as specified by FAA Order 51OO.38B, §
526.
      (4)   No airport land or building space in excess of present and
foreseeable operator requirements shall be leased to any operator. Any
additional land may be made available on the basis of need and availability.
Although airport land designated or leased for operator activities is limited
and valued, nothing contained herein shall be construed to grant or authorize
the granting of an exclusive right as forbidden by § 308 of the Federal
Aviation Act of 1958, being 49 U.S.C. § 40103(e).
      (5)   Operators must comply with applicable regulations set forth by
local, state and federal agencies. The operator shall post, in a prominent
place, all necessary or required licenses or permits.
      (6)   The operator must establish an office at the airport for public
availability and for public access to staff, facilities and equipment offered
by the operator’s office hours shall coincide with attended hours of airport
operation as published in the airport/facility directory, unless stated
otherwise in the operator’s lease agreement.
      (7)   The rates, charges and prices assessed by the operator may be
requested and must be divulged to the Airport Commission/Town Council upon
written request, including any discounts, rebates or other similar type price
reductions.
      (8)   The operator shall have the right to choose, at its sole
discretion, its vendors and suppliers. The operator reserves the right, at its
sole discretion, to grant others certain rights and privileges upon the airport
which are identical in part or in whole to those granted to operator.
      (9)   The distribution or sale of fuel on or at the airport is authorized
only with the express prior written approval of the Town Council. No operator
may sell or distribute aviation petroleum products at the airport unless having
the prior written approval of the Airport Commission and Town Council and
having met the minimum standards found in §
153.24 of this chapter.
      (10)   Operations such as UNICOM radio, aircraft tie-down and other
miscellaneous aeronautical activities not specifically described herein may be
provided or conducted by any operator upon application to and approval of the
Airport Commission/Town Council. Reasonable terms and conditions for the
privilege of engaging in these various services will be established or
determined by the Airport Commission/Town Council as commensurate with the
nature and scope of the activities involved.
      (11)   Failure or inability of the operator to meet the airport minimum
standards shall be reported in writing to the Airport Commission/Town Council,
without delay.
(Ord. passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.23 PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION; CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Any operator desiring to erect or construct any new or renovated
permanent or temporary structure, landscaping, signs or support facilities at
the airport shall submit plans and specifications to the Airport Commission and
Town Council for review and approval. No such approval shall be granted unless
such construction and design is consistent with the airport layout plan (ALP)
drawing. The plans shall include a general layout, drawn to scale, showing said
structure (site location, building, ground and top elevations and aesthetic and
decorative features), access and proposed boundary of leasehold area, plus a
completed FAA Form 7460 “Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration”.
   (B)   The Town Council, prior to construction, shall submit this information
to the NCDOT, Division of Aviation/FAA for review and airspace determination.
      (1)   Before construction of facilities and equipment is undertaken, the
operator must furnish the Airport Commission/Town Council with a performance
bond commensurate with the construction costs to be performed.
      (2)   The building structure shall be constructed in accordance with
State Building Codes and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards.
      (3)   All such building permits, licensing and environmental
certifications shall be obtained by the operator prior to construction. A
certificate of occupancy must be obtained before the structure can be occupied.
      (4)   No operator shall erect advertising or vendor signs at the airport
without express written permission of the Airport Commission/Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.24 STAFFING AND EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS.
   The operator must ensure that all of its employees meet physical
requirements and mental competency necessary to carry out the employee’s job
tasks in a safe manner.
   (A)   Operators shall furnish prompt service adequate to meet all reasonable
demands for its services at the airport. All service offered by the operator
shall be provided to persons on a fair, equal and non-discriminatory basis.
   (B)   The operator shall appoint a qualified person (Operation Manager)
stationed at the airport, a position vested with full-power and authority to
act in the name of the operator. The Operator Manager shall be available to the
Town Council/Airport Sponsor for routine communication and coordination and
shall attend official town meetings, as required or necessary. If absent, a
duly authorized subordinate shall be in charge and available to the Town
Council/Airport Sponsor.
   (C)   All operator personnel shall hold all necessary FAA certificates and
ratings as required to carry out the nature of their services and shall
maintain such certificates and ratings, as appropriate.
   (D)   Operator shall provide, at its sole expense, a sufficient number of
qualified employees and resources to provide safe and effective services. It
shall be the responsibility of Operator Manager to maintain close supervision
over its employees. The Operator Manager shall control the conduct, demeanor
and appearance of its employees.
   (E)   The operator is responsible for informing and training its employees
as to the current contents of the airport minimum standards and airport rules
and regulations and applicable portions of the operator lease agreement with
the Town Council/Airport Sponsor.
(Ord. passed - -2019)
§ 153.25 LEASE AND INSURANCE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Leasehold conditions. Operator lease terms shall be mutually agreed
upon with due consideration for the financial investment and the need to
amortize improvements to or on the leasehold. Operators have the right to
further improve and develop its leasehold area. Any plans by the operator for
leasehold improvements, modifications or like development shall be submitted
prior to initiating construction to the Airport Commission/Town Council for
review and approval.
      (1)   No operator leases or agreements will be executed for a period in
excess of 20 years.
      (2)   Operator leaseholds may be subleased by a lessee only with prior
written approval of the Town Council or designated representative.
      (3)   All improvements made by the operator to their leasehold property
become the property of the town upon termination of the operator’s leasehold
for such areas or facilities.
      (4)   No new leases will be executed, amended or assigned unless the
existing lease is in compliance with the standards and requirements contained
herein.
   (B)   Insurance coverage.
      (1)   Unless otherwise approved or directed by the town, each operator
shall furnish satisfactory evidence of, at minimum, the following insurance
coverage and conditions:
         (a)   Single limit airport premises liability, bodily injury, and
property damage: $1,000,000;
         (b)   For hangar keeper’s liability or otherwise as applicable:
$1,000,000; and
         (c)   Worker’s compensation insurance as required by the state.
      (2)   The Airport Commission/Town Council may choose, at their
discretion, to modify insurance requirements on a case-by-case basis, depending
on statutory and/or inherent risk factors. Operator insurance policies shall
also declare the town as a named insured and shall contain a clause which shall
provide that in the event lessee’s insurance coverage or any part thereof,
should be cancelled or materially changed, the town shall receive at least 30
days’ prior written notice of such change.
(Ord. passed - -2019)
§ 153.26 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   As a practical matter due to the surrounding circumstances that make
such an arrangement necessary, the town intends to provide any and/or all
activities related to the sale and distribution of aviation fuel needed by the
public at the airport.
   (B)   Based on statutory requirements, the town may not refuse any person
from the sale or distribution of fuel on or at the airport. However, the sale
and distribution of fuel must be authorized with the expressed prior written
approval of the Town Council. Any distributor or seller of fuels must comply
fully with §§
153.40 through
153.52 of this chapter, as adopted. The distribution or sale of fuels without
prior written consent is a violation and subject to prescribed penalties listed
herein.
      (1)   Fuel and oil sales. Persons conducting aviation fuel and oil sales
on the airport shall be required to provide the following.
         (a)   All fuel systems must be capable of dispensing fuel directly
into aircraft. Only properly trained personnel shall dispense fuel. In
conducting refueling operations, the operator shall install and use adequate
grounding at fueling locations to eliminate the hazards of static electricity
and shall provide types of fire extinguishers or other equipment commensurate
with the hazard involved in refueling and servicing aircraft.
         (b)   The operator shall provide at a minimum 100-low lead aviation
fuel and, pending user demand, standard Jet-A fuel.
         (c)   Hours of fuel dispensing must be publicly posted with a contact
employee for on-demand fuel required during hours of not in operation to the
public.
         (d)   Adequate storage and inventory of at least one brand of
generally accepted grade of aviation fuel, engine oil and lubricants.
         (e)   If supplied by the operator, a minimum of 8,000 gallon on-site
aircraft fuel storage capacity, per grade of fuel. A minimum capacity of 500
gallons is required for any fuel truck storage vehicle used for aircraft
refueling. All fuel storage tanks and vehicles must meet federal, state and
local regulations and shall be regularly inspected and maintained by the
operator.
         (f)   The Airport Commission/Town Council may prescribe a reasonable
fuel flowage fee to be charged for all fuel sales or distributions, as
specified in the operator’s lease agreement. Disclosure of operator fuel sale
quantities and revenues can be requested and shall be furnished to the Airport
Commission/Town Council upon written notice.
      (2)   Aircraft line service. The following standards shall apply:
         (a)   Adequate towing equipment and parking and tie-down areas to
safely and efficiently move aircraft and store them in all reasonably expected
weather conditions;
         (b)   Proper equipment for repairing and inflating aircraft tires,
servicing oleo struts, changing engine oil, washing aircraft and aircraft
windows and for recharging or energizing discharged aircraft batteries and
starters; and
         (c)   Conveniently located lounge or waiting rooms for passengers and
airplane crews of itinerant aircraft, together with sanitary restrooms and
public telephones.
      (3)   Hangar storage. Operators desiring to provide hangar storage rental
will meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Lease at least 10,000 square feet for T-hangars; and
         (b)   Lease at least 3,000 square feet for common hangars.
      (4)   Aircraft maintenance and repair. All persons operating aircraft
engine and accessory maintenance facilities shall meet the following
provisions:
         (a)   Sufficient equipment, supplies and spare parts to perform
maintenance in accordance with FAA Part 145, “Certified Repair Station”;
         (b)   Trained and uniformed personnel to sufficiently meet the demand
for aircraft maintenance services. At least one mechanic shall be a FAA-
certified airframe and powerplant (A&P) technician, available during
established business hours. Contact for on-demand services shall be publicly
posted at the airport;
         (c)   New maintenance hangars constructed by or for an operator shall
contain a minimum of 3,600 square feet of storage and/or floor space. Adequate
shop space to house the equipment and adequate equipment and machine tools,
jacks, lifts and testing equipment to perform top overhauls as required for FAA
certification and repair; and
         (d)   Suitable leased parking and/or storage space for aircraft
awaiting maintenance or delivery after repair and maintenance has been
completed.
      (5)   Flight training/rental. Persons or operators conducting flight
training/aircraft rentals shall provide.
         (a)   Flight instruction shall be provided by at least one properly
FAA-certified flight instructor with commercial certificate. Hours of
availability and contact information must be publicly posted at the airport.
         (b)   At least one aircraft to be used for flight training and/or
rental. Additional types of aircraft as may be required to give flight
training, check-outs, proficiency training and instruction of the kind as
advertised.
         (c)   Adequate mock-ups, pictures, slides, film strips or other visual
aids necessary to provide proper ground school instruction.
         (d)   Adequate facilities for servicing and repairing the aircraft or
satisfactory arrangements with other operators on the airport for such service
and repair.
         (e)   Proper check lists and operating manuals on all aircraft rented
and adequate parts catalogue and service manual on new aircraft sold.
         (f)   Adequate liability and property damage insurance sufficient to
protect the operator and the town from legal liabilities involved. An
indemnification and hold harmless agreement is required to protect the town. A
copy of this agreement shall be provided to the Town Council before flight
training activities commence.
      (6)   Aircraft charter and taxi service. Persons or operators operating
aircraft charter and taxi service shall provide:
         (a)   Shall have properly certified suitable aircraft with properly
certified and qualified operating crew available for service when not otherwise
engaged in such service;
         (b)   Adequate building or office lease area for passenger and baggage
processing;
         (c)   Adequate facilities for servicing and repairing the aircraft or
satisfactory arrangements with other operators on the airport for such service
and repair; and
         (d)   Shall provide passenger liability insurance of at least $100,000
per passenger seat and property damage liability of at least $300,000. An
indemnification and hold harmless agreement is required to protect the town. A
copy of this agreement shall be provided to the Town Council before flight
training activities commence.
      (7)   Crop dusting and spray operators. Persons or operators seeking to
conduct crop dusting or spraying of agricultural chemicals shall be required to
satisfy the Town Council that operations shall be conducted in compliance with
applicable local, state and federal laws. Staging and washing areas shall be
conducted in compliance with the applicable regulations. Any liability
resulting from agricultural spraying operations is the sole responsibility of
the operator. The Town Council has authority to require said operators to post
a bond that would cover, with the intent of mitigating, liabilities to the town
and county resultant from the intentional or accidental dispersion of
agricultural spraying or other compounds.
      (8)   Through-the-fence operators. In accordance with FAA AC 150/5190-5,
through-the-fence operators conducting commercial business at the airport may
be charged an access fee commensurate with fair and uniform standards set by
the Town Council.
      (9)   Flying club/association. A flying club or similar organization is
recognized as a plan for joint ownership of aircraft and the fair distribution
of the cost of maintaining and operating such an aircraft. Such operation is
not considered to be commercial in nature when so operated nor is flight
instruction by flying club members for flying other club members considered to
be commercial in nature so long as there is not profit or for-hire motive
involved in the operation. In all cases, the Town Council will determine if the
operation is a commercial aeronautical activity. If determined to be
commercial, the club or organization shall conform to the requirements set
forth herein for commercial aeronautical operators.
      (10)   Skydiving and jump schools.
         (a)   Persons or operators operating skydiving and/or jump school
service shall operate according to the following:
            1.   Operate and maintain within the minimum standards for
skydiving set by the United States Parachute Association (USPA) and in
compliance with 14 C.F.R. part 105;
            2.   Maintain an active drop zone membership with the United States
Parachute Association (USPA);
            3.   Skydiving ground procedures shall operate out of a hangar with
a minimum size of 3,600 square feet of storage and/or floor space. This
includes adequate space to house, train and prepare the equipment used for
skydiving; and
            4.   Maintain insurance policies in accordance to USPA with the
town additionally insured.
         (b)   In conjunction with the application process in §
153.27 of this chapter, skydiving and jump schools shall also provide the
following: a description of how operations will be conducted with other
aeronautical traffic which will include a description of procedures in
accordance to FAA AC-90-66-A, Recommended Standards Traffic Patterns and
Practices for Aeronautical Operators at Airports Without Control Towers.
(Ord. passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.27 RECEIVING AND PROCESSING APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   All operators, as part of the application process, must show and
demonstrate business and financial ability to the satisfaction of the Airport
Commission/Town Council.
   (B)   The town will not accept or take action on a request to lease building
space or land area or a request for assignment of an existing lease or in any
way permit the installation of a commercial aeronautical activity until after
the applicant, in writing, submits a proposal which clearly sets forth the
scope and type of operations being proposed, including the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The proposed aeronautical operation or activity sought;
      (3)   The proposed land use and facility needs sought;
      (4)   The names and qualifications of the personnel to be involved in
conducting the activity;
      (5)   The financial responsibility and technical ability of the applicant
and operator to carry out said operations or activity, including historical
evidence of satisfactory performance of previous similar activity;
      (6)   The tools, equipment, services and inventory, if any, associated
with the proposed activity;
      (7)   The requested or proposed date for commencement of the activity and
the term conducting the same;
      (8)   The estimated cost of any structure or facility to be furnished,
the proposed specifications for the same, and the means or method of financing
such construction or acquisition of facilities; and
      (9)   Other information the Airport Commission/Town Council may require
and specifically request.
   (C)   Only applications completed according to the requirements will be
considered. Upon approval of any such application in principal, the Town
Council or designated agent shall prepare a suitable lease or contract
agreement setting forth the terms and conditions under which the operator shall
be conducted. Any rejected application shall be returned to the applicant
within 30 calendar days of the rejection with a written explanation of the
reasons for rejection. Candidates are invited to resubmit at their discretion.
(Ord. passed - -2019)
§ 153.28 LEASE TERMINATION.
   Any operator or tenant who violates these minimum standards will be given
written notice by the Airport Commission/Town Council describing the violation
and suggesting corrective action (hereafter referred to as a “notice of
violation”). The tenant may be given a specified and reasonable time period to
correct any violations. If the tenant does not correct the cited violation(s)
in the prescribed manner and time, the tenant’s lease and continued use of
airport facilities are subject to termination.
(Ord. passed - -2019)
§ 153.29 AMENDMENTS, VIOLATIONS, CHANGES.
   (A)   The minimum standards contained herein may be revised, supplemented
and/or amended by the town from time to time in such a manner as to reflect
changes at the airport and fairness and consistency to all existing and
prospective future airport tenants.
   (B)   Violation of the rules and regulations may be considered reason to
restrict or terminate the activities on the airport for said person or tenant.
Upon written notice of the violation and restriction, the Town Council, in lieu
of termination of the lease or contract, can conclude that the person or tenant
could correct the violation so that the violation is eliminated. Any
restriction may be limited to certain areas of the airport or may be limited to
a certain time period, depending upon the violation.
      (1)   If any conflict is found between provisions of this subchapter, the
more stringent provision shall prevail. If any provisions of this subchapter or
application thereof are held invalid, it shall not effect or impose other
provisions of this subchapter. To this end, the provisions of this subchapter
are declared to be severable.
      (2)   Any published FAA regulation shall become effective as part of this
subchapter without requiring any action on the part of the Town Council. A copy
of these minimum standards and any adopted changes will be available at the
Town Manager’s office.
(Ord. passed - -2019)
**** AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS ****
§ 153.40 AUTHORITY AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   The town, a municipal corporation of the state, hereby adopts and
approves the following airport rules and regulations for the operation and use
of the Wallace-Pender Airport (Henderson Field) located in Pender County.
   (B)   The airport is owned and operated by the town.
   (C)   Administration and enforcement of the terms of the rules and
regulations shall be delegated at the discretion of the town.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2019)
§ 153.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity which involves, makes possible or is
required for the operation of aircraft or which contributes to or is required
for the safety of such operations.
   AIRPORT. The Town Municipal Airport (Henderson Field) (ACZ), North Carolina.
   AIRPORT COMMISSION. An advisory group appointed by the Town Council charged
with making recommendations on the overall supervision of airport activities.
   AIRPORT MANAGER. The representative of the town having day-to-day oversight
of airport activities. If no individual is designated with such charge, this
responsibility is retained by the Airport Commission.
   AIRPORT OWNER. The Town of Wallace, as Airport Sponsor.
   COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. A person or business providing goods and
services to the aviation public for which compensation is received.
   COMMERCIAL AVIATION OPERATOR, FIXED BASE OPERATOR (FBO), SPECIAL AVIATION
SERVICE ORGANIZATION (SASO), or INDEPENDENT OPERATORS (IO). A person or
aeronautical business offering or supporting general aviation services.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   HANGAR. A building providing shelter or enclosed space for the storage or
aircraft or aircraft parts.
   LEASE. An executed contract, in writing and enforceable by law, granting
interests in property or the conduct of certain activities.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle, as defined by G.S. Chapter 20, except as
authorized by the Airport Manager.
   NON-COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL USE. Encompass through-the-fence entities
owning, leasing or having the full and exclusive control of aircraft, for non-
commercial purposes, located on and operated from through-the-fence property.
This includes individuals (who utilize aircraft for personal/recreational
purposes) and companies (who utilize aircraft for purposes that are incidental
or ancillary to a business such as providing transportation to company
employees, customers and others).
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, association, commercial business
or corporation.
   STATE. The NCDOT, Division of Aviation (NCDOA).
   TENANT. A person who leases or subleases real property and whose premises
has access to the airport.
   THROUGH-THE-FENCE. Any use of the airport public landing areas by any person
offering aeronautical activity or by aircraft based on land adjacent to but not
a part of the airport property.
   TOWN. The Town of Wallace, North Carolina.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of Wallace, the governing body lawfully
empowered to exercise legal control over the airport.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 20
§ 153.42 DELEGATED POWERS; LIABILITY; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, at all times, have power to take such
reasonable action as may be necessary to enforce these regulations, including
contingencies not specifically mentioned by this subchapter.
   (B)   The town assumes no liability or responsibility for any loss, injury
or damage to persons or property by reason of fire, theft, vandalism, wind or
other natural causes nor does the town assume any liability for injury or death
to any person while on airport property or while using any public or private
facilities at the airport.
      (1)   Compliance. All persons on and users of the airport shall comply
with and be governed by these rules and regulations. The privilege of using the
airport and its facilities shall impose full responsibility and risk by the
user thereof and shall release and hold harmless and indemnify the town and its
agents from any liability or charges of loss resulting from such use, as well
as claims of third persons using the airport.
      (2)   Failure to comply. Any person violating this subchapter may be
subject to pertinent deprivation of use of the airport facilities for such
period of time as may be deemed necessary by the Town Council or legal
representation.
      (3)   Enforcement. These airport rules and regulations, as well as all
applicable state laws and town ordinances, shall be enforced by the Town
Council and/or law enforcement officers appointed pursuant to law.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2019)
§ 153.43 AIRPORT LEASES.
   (A)   The Town Council may lease airport property in accordance with the
approved airport layout plan (ALP).
   (B)   All construction by any person must be authorized by the Town Board or
designated agent and comply with applicable land use regulations and building
codes.
      (1)   Lease records. Any person, hangar tenant and/or commercial aviation
operators conducting business at the airport must have an executed lease
agreement or contract with the Town Council. Such persons shall retain and
become familiar with the current airport rules and regulations.
      (2)   Airport lease/erection of buildings or structures. Any person
desiring to erect or construct any new or renovations to existing hangars which
changes the footprint, height or wiring or temporary structure, landscaping,
signs or support facilities at the airport shall submit plans and
specifications to the Airport Commission and Town Council for review and
approval. The plans shall include a general layout, drawn to scale, showing
said structure (site location, building, ground and top elevations and
aesthetic and decorative features), access and proposed boundary of leasehold
area, plus a completed FAA Form 7460, “Notice of Proposed Construction or
Alteration”. The Town Council, prior to construction, shall submit this
information to the NCDOT, Division of Aviation/FAA, for review and airspace
determination. Buildings shall meet all building codes and development
ordinances. All such building permits, licensing and environmental
certifications shall be obtained by the person prior to construction. A
certificate of occupancy must be obtained before the structure can be occupied.
No airport leases will be executed for a period in excess of 20 years.
      (3)   Subleasing. Leased property may be subleased by the lessee only
with prior written authorization or approval of the Town Council or designated
representative. Any person that subleases, assigns their lease or rents to any
person who then performs any commercial aeronautical activity on the airport
shall notify the Town Council of such tenant within ten days of such
transaction.
      (4)   Leasehold condition/abuse of property. Tenants are required to keep
their premises clean and clear of all rubbish junk, debris, disabled/dismantled
aircraft, vehicles and unsightly objects. No person shall construct, erect or
store facilities, equipment, or materials in a manner as to constitute a hazard
to persons or property or that could interfere with the safe movement of
aircraft. Garbage, refuse, chemicals or other waste material shall be placed in
appropriately approved receptacles used to dispose of off-airport property. No
person shall, in any way, destroy, remove or disturb buildings, signs,
equipment, markers or other property on the airport. The borrowing or use of
airport-owned tools or equipment must be specifically permitted by the Airport
Manager/Airport Commission.
      (5)   Right of entry. The Town Manager, Airport Manager, Fire Chief or
other designated town agents shall have reasonable right-of-entry into all
areas of the airport, including enclosed structures.
      (6)   Solicitation. No person shall solicit funds, nor post commercial-
related signs or advertisements, at the airport without written permission of
the Town Council/Airport Commission.
      (7)   Abandonment. No person may abandon vehicles, equipment, aircraft or
parts on the airport property. The Town Council or designated representative
has the right following due written notice to the owner after 90 days to have
such equipment removed and/or disposed of without liability. The last
registered owner of the equipment shall be liable for all costs incurred in the
disposal of such property.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2019)
§ 153.44 AIR TRAFFIC PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Aircraft operator certification. Any person operating airplanes/
aircraft on the airport must be certified by the FAA. This requirement does not
apply to individuals possessing a sportsman license or individuals operating an
ultra-light vehicle.
   (B)   FAA regulations. All aeronautical activities at the airport and all
flight operations in the airspace above the airport shall be conducted in
conformity with FAA regulations.
   (C)   Aircraft movements. All takeoffs and landings, by fixed-wing and
rotorcraft, shall be conducted on paved areas. Any aircraft movement conducted
in non-designated areas must be approved, in advance, by the Town Council or
designated representative.
(Ord. passed - -2019)
§ 153.45 AIRPORT OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Public use. The Town Council may suspend or restrict airport
operations when deemed necessary in the interest of safety, or as otherwise
restricted due to weather, construction development, national security and acts
of God. The Airport Manager or, in the absence of the Airport Manager, the
individual listed in Addendum 1 (in the order listed) has the authority to
temporarily close the airport by means of NOTAM.
   (B)   Aircraft registration. All aircraft based at the airport shall be
registered with the Airport Manager/Advisory Commission (pilot name, address,
phone number, aircraft type, model and N-number).
   (C)   Aircraft size and weight. Airport operations by aircraft and/or other
operating vehicles in excess of the published pavement strength shall require
prior written permission by the Airport Manager or designated town
representative. Such operations will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Aircraft engine run-up. Aircraft engines shall be started and run-up
only in the places designated for such purposes. Engine run-ups shall be
conducted so not to cause harm to people or damage to property, structures or
other aircraft.
   (E)   Parked aircraft. No aircraft shall be parked or stored at the airport,
except in areas for such use, as designated or instructed by the Airport
Manager or designated representative. All aircraft not hangared shall be
sufficiently secured at night and during inclement weather.
   (F)   Aircraft emergency transmitter. Should an aircraft’s emergency locator
transmitter (ELT) accidentally be activated, and the pilot or owner unable to
be contacted or respond, the Airport Manager shall take steps to turn-off the
ELT.
   (G)   Public access within aircraft movement areas. Only airmen, aircraft
passengers, duly authorized personnel or persons being escorted by authorized
personnel shall be permitted to access areas in which aircraft operate.
   (H)   Flying/taxing aircraft accident. In the event of an aircraft accident
which require FAA reporting, the aircraft operator and/or owner shall promptly
remove any disabled aircraft or parts hereof, subject to FAA/NTSB accident
investigation. If unable, the Town Council/Airport Sponsor may, in compliance
with FAA and other governmental regulations, move damaged or wrecked aircraft
and parts from aircraft maneuvering and operating areas. The pilot of an
aircraft involved in an accident on or near the airport causing personal injury
or property damage shall immediately report such incident to the Town Council/
Airport Manger. In the event that the pilot is unable, the owner of the
aircraft or the owner’s agent shall submit an accident report to the Town
Council/Airport Manager within 24 hours, including the names of persons
involved, addresses, phone numbers and general description of the accident.
Airport property damaged or otherwise destroyed by an accident or other
activity shall be paid for by parties responsible.
   (I)   Special or unique airport uses. Special use of the airport shall be
governed by the following:
      (1)   Flying events. No person or organization will engage in or promote
any show, contest, demonstration or similar exhibition at or on the airport
without specific prior written authorization from the Airport Commission and
Town Council. Said request for authorization must be submitted at least 60
calendar days prior to the event. Such permission shall not be given without
appropriate FAA clearance or exemptions, nor without proof of an insurance
policy for the event, which covers hazards and holds the Airport Owner harmless
from any and all claims resulting from such events.
      (2)   Parachute activity. Parachute jumps at or onto the airport must
receive prior consent from the Airport Manager/Airport Commission. An FAA
“NOTAM” shall be filed by the Airport Manager, or designated representative
prior to any said parachute jumps. The Airport Manager reserves the right to
designate areas for jump schools and drop zones. These businesses must store,
train and prepare equipment within a hangar designated for such purposes and
operate in accordance to §§
153.20 through
153.29 of this chapter.
      (3)   Agricultural spray activity. Aircraft agricultural spraying
operations shall be conducted in compliance with applicable local, state and
federal laws. Staging and washing areas shall be conducted in compliance with
the applicable regulations. Any liability resulting from agricultural spraying
operations is the sole responsibility of the operator. The Town Council has
authority to require said operators to provide a copy of their bond/insurance
that would cover, with the intent of mitigating, liabilities to the town and
county resultant from the intentional or accidental dispersion of agricultural
spraying or other compounds.
      (4)   Model aircraft. The flying of model aircraft at the airport is
prohibited. No person shall operate or release any model aircraft, rocket,
kite, balloon or other similar contrivance at or upon the airport, except as
permitted by the Airport Manager.
(Ord. passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.46 AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE.
   The Airport Manager reserves the right to designate areas for performing
major and minor aircraft and engine repair and maintenance, including
immobilized aircraft. Major engine, airframe, avionics, or aircraft apparatus
repairs shall be conducted by a properly licensed mechanic and shall be
performed within an enclosed hangar designated for such purposes. All minor
preventative aircraft maintenance and repairs authorized by FAR part 43,
“Maintenance, Preventative Maintenance Rebuilding and Alteration” shall be
performed in the owner’s hangar or designated hangar for such purposes. If
required, minor aircraft adjustments or repairs may be performed outside of
hangars at places assigned or designated by the Airport Manager/Airport
Commission. Any engine work requires the use of adequate drip pans. Spent oil,
fuels and lubricants must be disposed in appropriate containers.
(Ord. passed - -2019)
§ 153.47 FUELING.
   The following rules shall govern and control the fueling and defueling of
aircraft and motor vehicles at the airport.
   (A)   No fuel storage and dispensing equipment, whether publicly or
privately owned, shall be installed and used at the airport without the prior
written approval of the Airport Commission and Town Council. All equipment or
storage used for the handling of fuels, whether 100LL, Jet-A or Avgas shall
fully comply with current National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)
regulations and all applicable local, state or national regulations. Aircraft
authorized by the FAA to use automobile gas shall be fueled in outside areas,
unless the aircraft cannot be moved due to maintenance reasons.
   (B)   Aircraft shall be grounded by an approved method during all fueling
and defueling operations. No aircraft shall be fueled or de-fueled while the
aircraft engine is running. No person shall engage in aircraft fueling
operations without adequate fire extinguishers within ready reach.
   (C)   Aircraft fuel dispensing trucks must be appropriately registered with
the state, and parked at least 50 feet from any hangar or building.
   (D)   Smoking or lighting of an open flame shall be prohibited, at minimum,
within 100 feet of any fueling operation.
   (E)   Any person involved with an accidental release of fuel or fuel
contamination situation must immediately contact the Airport Manager/Town
Official and notify the: type of fuel, spill location, quantity of fuel
released, and time of spill. If requested by the Airport Manger/Town Official,
a written report shall be filed by the responsible persons within seven
calendar days of the spill. Persons responsible for a spill will be accountable
for any assessed fines and spill liability, including clean-up as prescribed by
regulatory agencies.
(Ord. passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.48 AIRPORT MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATION.
   The following govern the movement of auto vehicles at the airport.
   (A)   Motor vehicles shall be operated on designated roadways, parking areas
and the like unless authorized by the Airport Manager. Motor vehicles shall be
parked in accordance with markings and posted signs.
   (B)   An aircraft owner who rents, leases or owns a hangar at the airport
may park their motor vehicle in their hangar while their aircraft is being
flown.
   (C)   Motor vehicles shall not be permitted on the runways, taxiways, aprons
or ramps (aircraft movement areas) without the express permission of the
Airport Manager, unless the operation of such vehicle is in accordance with
prior agreement to accomplish a necessary airport purpose, service or
inspection. No motor vehicle may operate on the runway while an aircraft is
preparing for or conducting a takeoff or landing.
   (D)   Any motor vehicles authorized to operate on aircraft movement areas
must be properly illuminated during night operations or periods of reduced
visibility. Motor vehicles operating on the runway must monitor the designated
common traffic frequency channel (CTAF/UNICOM).
   (E)   No vehicle shall exceed a speed of 15 mph while on the apron and 45
mph while on the taxiway and runway system.
   (F)   Pedestrians or motor vehicle operators observed in areas other than
public use areas without authorization by the Airport Manager/Airport
Commission will be considered trespassing and may be subject to arrest.
   (G)   Any vehicle parked in violation or abandoned may be towed by the
Airport Manager at the owner’s expense and without liability for damage which
may result in the course of such moving.
   (H)   Any motor vehicle accident involving injury or property damage on the
airport shall be reported to the Airport Manager and/or Town Council
representatives no later than 24 hours after the accident occurred.
(Ord. passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.49 FIRE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Smoking or lighting of an open flame is prohibited at places with
posted signs or within 100 feet of any aircraft, hangars, fuel trucks, fuel
loading stations or tank farms.
   (B)   No person shall bring any explosives onto the airport.
   (C)   No person shall store material or equipment, use flammable liquids or
gases or allow their premises to become in such condition as to violate, in any
manner, the Fire Code in force in the area of the airport.
   (D)   Tenants of all hangars and buildings shall provide suitable fire
extinguishers and equipment to be kept in ready condition as required by the
Town Fire Chief or designate.
   (E)   Any changes to the hangar electrical system must receive prior
authorization from the Town Council/Airport Commission. At a minimum, extension
cords must be of the grounded type and are for temporary use only.
   (F)   Tenants and persons are required to keep their premises clean and
clear of all rubbish, junk, debris, old aircraft and vehicles and unsightly
objects. If, after written warning by the Airport Commission/Town Council, the
area is not cleaned, removal of such items will be performed at the direction
of the town and billed to the responsible tenant or persons.
(Ord. passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.50 AIRPORT SECURITY.
   (A)   Security requirements regulated by the Town Council or its agents.
      (1)   Restricted areas are established for safety and security reasons.
Except for passenger enplaning or deplaning of aircraft, the general public is
prohibited from the areas of the airport posted as being restricted areas.
      (2)   Only flight crews, passengers going to and from aircraft, aircraft
service and maintenance technicians, FAA, firefighting personnel and others
authorized by the Town Manager shall be permitted into the restricted areas.
   (B)   Security of aircraft and airport operations area. A breach in security
caused by a user or person that results in an FAA finding of negligence will be
cause to review, find and possibly cancel or curtail tenant access to the
restricted areas.
   (C)   Weapons. No person will carry a weapon on the airport, except encased
for appropriate transport in an aircraft. Federal, state and local law
enforcement officers are exempt from this rule.
(Ord. passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.51 THROUGH-THE-FENCE OPERATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The NCDOT, Division of Aviation and FAA, discourage through-the-
fence operations except for those “through-the-fence” hangars existing on 3-1-
2005. Through-the-fence arrangements will not be allowed unless approved by the
Airport Commission and Town Council.
      (2)   The Airport Commission and the town can discontinue or prohibit
through-the-fence operations at any time.
   (B)   The following rules shall govern and control through-the-fence
operations at the airport.
      (1)   All owners of adjacent property participating in through-the-fence
operations must have a signed and approved access agreement form filed with the
airport.
      (2)   The town and the Airport Commission will not accept new through-
the-fence operations unless reviewed and approved by the Airport Commission and
the Town Council.
   (C)   Non-commercial aeronautical use on through-the-fence property must be
approved by the Airport Commission and town and are subjected to the
appropriate fees as listed in the airport’s rates and charges.
   (D)   Commercial aeronautical activity is not permitted on through-the-fence
property without the consent of the Airport Commission and the town. If
commercial aeronautical activity is approved for through-the-fence operations,
the commercial aviation operator will adhere to §§
153.20 and
153.29 of this chapter and be subjected to the appropriate fee as listed in the
airport’s rates and charges.
   (E)   Through-the-fence property owners are to accurately report the number
of aircraft in their hangar. The owner is to inform the airport when aircraft
begin or discontinue using hangar space.
   (F)   Through-the-fence access is at the complete discretion of the Airport
Commission and the town. If the through-the-fence property owner or commercial
aviation operator violates the rules and regulations, through-the-fence
privileges are subject to termination.
(Ord. passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.52 VIOLATIONS; FAA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Violation of the rules and regulations may be considered reason to
restrict or terminate the activities on the airport for said person or tenant.
Upon written notice of the violation and restriction, the Town Council, in lieu
of termination of the lease or contract, can conclude that the person or tenant
could correct the violation so that the violation is eliminated.
   (B)   Any restriction may be limited to certain areas of the airport or may
be limited to a certain time period, depending upon the violation.
      (1)   Any published FAA Federal Aviation Regulations shall become
effective as part of this subchapter without requiring any action on the part
of the Town Council.
      (2)   A copy of these rules and regulations and any adopted changes will
be available at the Town Manager’s office.
(Ord. passed - -2019)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each violation of §§
153.01 through
153.09 of this chapter or of any regulation, order or rules promulgated
hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine of not
more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days or both the fine and
imprisonment, and each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 150.99)
   (B)   Persons in violation of §
153.46 of this chapter can be subject, at the discretion of the Airport
Commission/Town Council, to the following fines, payable to the town for
airport purposes:
      (1)   First offense: $100;
      (2)   Second offense: $250; and
      (3)   Third offense: $500 and eviction from or excluded from airport use.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1963; Ord. passed - -2019)
CHAPTER 154: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
Storm Water Drainage Control
   
154.01   General policy
   
154.02   Application
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Administration
   
154.05   General requirements
   
154.06   Requirements for on-site storm water control structures
   
154.07   Off-site storm water management facilities
   
154.08   Legal requirements for private storm water management facilities
Storm Water Utility
   
154.20   General policy
   
154.21   Definitions
   
154.22   Fee structure
   
154.23   Appeals
**** STORM WATER DRAINAGE CONTROL ****
§ 154.01 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the town to require that all developed land
within its jurisdiction have sufficient storm water management controls in
place so as to ensure the adequate protection of life and property. To this
end, as a minimum, developed land within the jurisdiction of the town shall be
provided with storm water controls capable of managing after-development runoff
from a ten-year, 24-hour storm, so that the on-site and off-site effects of
development are the same or better than the pre-development state. The
requirements of this subchapter shall be construed consistently with the
requirements of the state for controlling storm water quantity and quality.
   (B)   Where the requirements of this subchapter are in conflict with the
rules and regulations of the state, the more stringent or higher requirements
shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 154.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this subchapter
shall apply to each of the following:
      (1)   Any development activity that creates 10,000 square-feet or more of
impervious surface area; provided that, single-family residential and duplex
residential development which does not meet the requirements of division (A)(3)
below shall be exempt;
      (2)   All new development which qualifies as either high density or
multi-unit development under the criteria set forth in this chapter; and
      (3)   All new major subdivisions, as defined under the town’s subdivision
regulations.
   (B)   In applying the provisions of this subchapter, the cumulative area of
the proposed development activity and all development activity which has
occurred on the site within a two-year period immediately preceding the date of
an application for a zoning or conditional use permit shall be considered
together.
   (C)   Whenever a site is redeveloped as set forth in divisions (A)(1), (A)
(2) or (A)(3) above, storm water management shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter for the entire site, even if the
redevelopment activity results in less impervious area than previously existed
on the site. Whenever a building or a structure on a site is redeveloped, as
defined in this subchapter, or is completely replaced, the total impervious
area shall be calculated to include both the impervious area from the new
construction as well as any impervious area remaining from the previous
development.
   (D)   Whenever a site or a building is expanded, as set forth in divisions
(A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above, the expanded portion of the site or building
shall comply with this subchapter. Whenever the expansion equals or exceeds 50%
of the existing development, the entire project shall be required to comply
with this provision. The expansion of an existing development may not be broken
up into phases or sections in order to circumvent this requirement.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. An owner or developer who has or intends to apply to the town for
the necessary permits to allow construction or development of a site located
within the planning or zoning jurisdiction of the town.
   AUTHORIZED REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL. A professional engineer, registered land
surveyor, landscape architect or other professional who is registered, licensed
or certified pursuant to the general statutes and who is authorized by law to
prepare plans and specifications and to oversee the construction of a storm
water control device required under this chapter.
   BMP or BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE. A structural or non-structural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce point source or non-
point source inputs to receiving waters for the purpose of achieving a given
level of water quality in storm water runoff or to control the quantity
thereof.
   CLEARING. Any activity which removes the vegetative ground cover from a
site.
   DEED OF CONVEYANCE. The transfer of an easement interest or fee simply title
in a storm water management facility or a storm water control device to the
town.
   DEVELOPER. A person undertaking any or all of the activities covered by this
subchapter or for whose benefit such activities are commenced or carried on.
General contractors or subcontractors or both, without a proprietary interest
in a project, are not included within this definition.
   EROSION. The process by which the ground surface is worn by the action of
wind, water, ice or gravity.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURES. A system of structural and vegetative
measures that minimize soil erosion and off-site sedimentation. This term,
where appropriate, shall include storm water management and control measures.
   EXCAVATION. Any act or the conditions resulting therefrom by which soil,
earth, sand, gravel, rock or similar material is cut into, dug, quarried,
uncovered, removed, displaced or relocated.
   EXPANSION OF SITE. The addition of new buildings, structures, parking lots
or any other new impervious surface to a site. Construction of any new
impervious surface on an area previously impervious which does not meet the
definition of redevelopment, as defined in this section, shall be considered as
EXPANSION.
   FACILITY. A device or structure, including all land, materials and
appurtenances used in the construction and operation of the facility, which is
intended to control and manage storm water runoff. FACILITIES can include, but
are not necessarily limited to, retention ponds, detention ponds, vegetative or
sand filters, drainage ditches, drainage swales, check dams and the like.
   FILL. Any act or the conditions resulting therefrom by which soil, earth,
sand, gravel, rock or other similar material is deposited, placed, pushed,
pulled or transported.
   FLOODPLAIN. An land susceptible to being inundated by water from any source.
   GRADING. Any act causing disturbance of the earth. This shall include, but
not be limited to, any excavation, filling, stockpiling of earth materials,
grubbing, root mat or topsoil disturbance or any combination of such.
   HIGH DENSITY DEVELOPMENT. Development of a nature which results in a
concentration of use(s) within a given area, such as apartments, mobile home
parks, planned unit developments (PUDs), shopping centers (retail or wholesale
outlet stores included), shopping malls, schools, industrial parks, large
industrial plants or any other type of development resulting in the creation of
impervious service exceeding 30% of the total land area.
   IMPERVIOUS. The condition of being impenetrable by water.
   IMPERVIOUSNESS. The degree to which a site is impervious. (Use of the
following materials in the construction of buildings, structures, streets,
driveways or parking areas or their related appurtenances, generally causes the
imperviousness of a site to increase: asphalt; crushed stone; compacted earth;
clay; wood; concrete; or metal.)
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any movement of earth or changes in the use of
land which may result in soil erosion or the movement of sediments into waters
or onto other lands including, but not limited to, tilling, clearing, grading,
excavating, stripping, filling and related activities and the covering of land
surfaces with any structure or impermeable material.
   NATURAL GROUND SURFACE. The ground surface in its original state before any
land disturbing activity.
   OFF-SITE FACILITY. With respect to any particular property, a storm water
management facility serving the property, but not located on the property.
   ON-SITE FACILITY. With respect to any particular property, a storm water
management facility serving the subject property and located thereon.
   PRE-DEVELOPMENT STATE. A site in its natural condition prior to any
development activity.
   PRIVATE FACILITY. Any storm water management facility not owned or operated
by the town or the state.
   PUBLIC FACILITY. Any storm water management facility owned and/or operated
by the town or the state.
   REDEVELOPMENT. The substantial modification of existing developed areas, not
to include interior remodeling or interior modifications which do not include
substantial structural modifications to a facility. When 50% of a site is being
redeveloped, the entire site shall be considered as being REDEVELOPED.
   SEDIMENT. Soils transported or deposited by the action or erosion or
artificial means.
   SITE. The portion of land, lot, or parcel of land or combination of
contiguous lots or parcels of land upon which grading or other land disturbing
activity is to be performed.
   SOIL. Any earth, sand, gravel, rock or other similar material.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
      (1)   A plan which has been submitted as a prerequisite to obtaining a
zoning, conditional use or building permit from the town and which is designed
to minimize erosion, prevent off-site sedimentation and control storm water
runoff.
      (2)   The plan shall be prepared and designed in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter and all other state laws and regulations as may
apply.
   TEN-YEAR FREQUENCY STORM. The storm of an intensity expected to occur, on
average, once in a ten-year period of time, and whose duration can be expected
to produce the peak rate of runoff for the watershed of interest.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager or his or her authorized representative.
   WATERCOURSE or DRAINAGE WAY. Any natural or artificial watercourse
including, but not limited to: streams; rivers; creeks; ponds; lakes; ditches;
channels; canals; conduits; culverts; drains; waterways; gullies; ravines; or
washes, in which waters flow in a definite direction or course, either
continuously or intermittently and including any areas adjacent thereto which
are subject to inundation by reason of overflow or flood water.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 154.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Responsibility for administering the provisions of this subchapter
shall reside with the Town Manager, who is hereby granted the authority and
such powers as are either set forth within the sections of this subchapter or
as may be conferred by the Town Council for that purpose.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Manager shall have the authority to establish
regulations and guidelines, by whatever title, for the implementation of the
provisions of this subchapter including, but not limited to, establishing
specific requirements and standards which shall govern land-disturbing
activities and the utilization and implementation of storm water management
measures, inspections and enforcement.
      (2)   The regulations shall become effective upon their approval by the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 154.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No zoning, conditional use or building permit shall be issued for any
development, whether for virgin land or for property which has been previously
developed to any degree, unless and until it has been demonstrated to the
town’s satisfaction that:
   (A)   Adequate drainage is available or will be provided to ensure that the
development will not increase the potential for flood-related damage which is
attributable to a ten-year, 24-hour storm, to which the development itself or
other properties could be exposed. To the extent practicable, all development
shall conform to the natural contours of the land, and natural drainage ways
shall remain undisturbed;
   (B)   The construction of all drainage control and storm water retention
devices, such as detention ponds, swales, curbs and gutters, storm drains,
culverts, and other similar devices, will conform to the standards, provisions
and requirements set forth within this subchapter or any other reasonable
standards, provisions and requirements which the town may see fit to adopt that
conform to recognized best management practices (BMP);
   (C)   Appropriate controls either have been or will be put in place to
control erosion and storm water runoff occurring during the period of time that
construction activity is occurring on the site of the development;
   (D)   No surface water will be channeled or directed into a sanitary sewer,
either while construction is in progress or any time thereafter;
   (E)   The development will be constructed and maintained in such a way as to
ensure that the natural flow of water from higher adjacent properties onto and
across the development site is not unduly impeded. In a similar manner, the
development will be constructed and maintained in such a way as to ensure that
surface waters collecting on the development site will not channeled onto lower
adjacent properties in either locations or in volumes as to cause damage to the
lower adjacent properties;
   (F)   In such instances where storm water controls or devices are determined
to be needed or required, at a minimum, the controls or devices shall provide
for the storage of runoff from an after- development ten-year frequency storm
and, furthermore, the controls or devices shall be designed to release the
storm water from the site at a rate not to exceed the rate at which runoff from
a pre-development ten-year frequency storm would be released;
   (G)   All drainage culverts, tile, pipes and associated facilities are
suitably sized to accommodate designated storm frequencies and, furthermore,
the devices are to be constructed and installed according to best engineering
and construction-trade practices so as to ensure that the facilities will
function properly and will not deteriorate within an unreasonably short period
of time;
   (H)   To the extent that it is practicable, the drainage system of the
property under development will coordinate with and connect to the drainage
systems or drainage ways which are located on surrounding properties or under
adjacent streets; and
   (I)   All storm water control devices will meet a minimum design frequency
of ten years; except that, in the case of storm water control devices crossing
underneath streets the design frequencies shall be 25 years.
(Prior Code, § 52.05) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 154.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR ON-SITE STORM WATER CONTROL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All storm water control devices shall be designed by a professional
registered with the state who has the necessary qualifications appropriate for
the type of device which is to be designed and/or constructed.
   (B)   Wherever possible, development should be punned and constructed in
such a way as to maintain the natural drainage of the property on which the
development is occurring.
   (C)   Where development is of a high density nature, such as in the case of
apartments, mobile home parks, planned unit developments (PUDs), shopping
centers (retail or wholesale outlet stores included), shopping malls, schools,
industrial parks or large industrial plants or, in cases where the total
impervious area to be constructed exceeds 30% of the total square area of the
entire parcel of property, detention ponds shall be the primary device used to
control storm water runoff. In cases where insufficient land is available to
construct a detention pond or other significant spatial or physical constraints
exist, sand filters, bioretention areas or other innovative types of storm
water control devices may be considered for approval by the town on a case-by-
case basis.
   (D)   Detention ponds shall be constructed so as hold an amount of water
equivalent to a ten-year frequency storm. All detention ponds, whether wet or
dry, shall be enclosed by a vegetative buffer of no less than ten feet in
width. Additionally, in cases where a dry detention pond is used for storm
water control, the pond must be enclosed by vegetation or fencing of no less
than six feet in height and of a thickness as to screen the pond from view and
prohibit unintended access to the pond.
   (E)   The first one inch of runoff from all impervious surfaces shall be
detained from reaching any watercourses through the use of vegetated areas
specifically designed and maintained for infiltration purposes. Vegetative
filters may be constructed of natural vegetation, grasses or artificially
planted wetland vegetation appropriate for the site characteristics. The slope,
width and length of the vegetative filters shall be calculated so as to provide
a non-erosive velocity of flow through the filter equivalent to a ten-year, 24-
hour storm.
   (F)   The slopes of detention ponds, swales, vegetative filters and other
similar storm water management devices shall be determined by BMP, but in no
case shall they be steeper than three to one (horizontal to vertical). Where
this is not practical due to physical constraints, check dams or other types of
devices may be required to slow the rate of runoff and encourage infiltration.
Slopes of storm water control devices shall be stabilized with vegetative cover
wherever possible.
   (G)   Stockpiles of materials having exposure to rain which could pose
potential pollution or health risks shall be kept covered or else stored in
such a manner as to minimize the risks. Protection measures may include using
flexible waterproof coverings or placing the materials under some form of
permanent or semi-permanent shelter.
   (H)   Upon completion of construction of a storm water control device or
facility, certification shall be provided by an authorized registered
professional that the materials and workmanship employed in the construction of
the device or facility meets or exceeds all requirements and standards set
forth in this subchapter or those of any other state or local ordinances which
may be apply.
(Prior Code, § 52.06) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 154.07 OFF-SITE STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES.
   In cases where adequate storm water management facilities cannot be located
on-site, but a suitable public storm water management facility is available
off-site which has or will have sufficient capacity to accommodated the storm
water runoff generated by the development, the property owner or developer
shall have the option to pay the town a fee comparable to the cost of
installing on-site facilities. Fees approved and accepted by the town for off-
site storm water management may be used by the town for land acquisition
(including easements and rights-of-way), as well as the study, engineering,
design, purchase, construction, expansion, repair, maintenance, landscaping
and/or inspection of public storm water management devices.
(Prior Code, § 52.07) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 154.08 LEGAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIVATE STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES.
   Whenever an existing or future private on-site storm water management
facility is to serve the subject property, the following shall be provided to
the town prior to the issuance of any building or zoning permit.
   (A)   A written inspection and maintenance agreement in a form acceptable to
the Town Attorney and executed by the applicant and the owners of the facility,
if different than the applicant, which shall bind the parties thereto and all
subsequent owners, successors and assigns and provide for the following:
      (1)   If a party other than the applicant assumes primary responsibility
for the maintenance of the facility, the applicant shall guarantee the
maintenance of the facility and assume ultimate responsibility therefor;
      (2)   The town shall have access to the facility at reasonable times for
inspection by its agents or representatives;
      (3)   If a town order directing the correction, repair, replacement or
maintenance of the facility or of any portion thereof is not satisfactorily
complied with within a reasonable period of time, the town may, after
reasonable notice, enter the land and perform all necessary work to place the
facility in proper working condition and may assess the owner(s) of the subject
property with the cost of the work which cost shall be a lien on the property
and may be collected as provided in G.S. § 160A-193. The owners of all property
served by the facility shall be jointly and severally responsible to the town
for the maintenance of the facility and liable for any costs incurred by the
town pursuant to the agreement and all properties are jointly and severally
subject to the imposition of liens for the costs;
      (4)   The inspection and maintenance agreement shall be recorded in the
Register of Deeds office of the county at the expense of the applicant; and
      (5)   Any other provision as may be reasonably required by the Town
Attorney to achieve the purposes of this subchapter.
   (B)   When deemed appropriate by the Town Attorney, an easement shall be
prepared and submitted by the owners of the facility in a form approved by the
Town Attorney by which the town and its agents and representatives shall be
granted adequate and perpetual access to the facility and provided with
sufficient area for inspection and maintenance, if necessary. The easement
shall be filed in the Register of Deeds Office of the county, at the expense of
the applicant, and shall bind all subsequent owners and assigns of the facility
and of the property on which the facility is located.
(Prior Code, § 52.08) (Ord. passed - -1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-193
**** STORM WATER UTILITY ****
§ 154.20 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the town to create a storm water utility for
the purpose of funding operation, maintenance and improvement of storm water
collection system. The town shall establish a fee structure, billing/collection
procedure and an appeal process.
   (B)   This subchapter shall only apply within the cooperate limits of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. passed 7-23-2002)
§ 154.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY. Any developed property used for any purpose other than
single- or multi-family residential.
   DEVELOPED LAND. Parcels altered from a natural state by construction or
installation of impervious surfaces.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). Two thousand four hundred square feet of
impervious surface.
   IMPERVIOUS. The condition of being impenetrable by water. IMPERVIOUS SURFACE
AREA shall include, but are not limited to, roofs, driveways, patios,
sidewalks, parking areas, tennis courts, concrete and crushed gravel shall not
be included in impervious area.
   PRIVATE SHARED PARKING AREAS. Those privately-owned parking areas that are
jointly used by more than one business (such as shopping centers and office
complexes).
(Prior Code, § 53.02) (Ord. passed 7-23-2002)
§ 154.22 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   All fees will be calculated based upon ERUs. The rate is subject to
change by action of the Town Council.
   (B)   Multi-family shall be charged one ERU per unit per month.
   (C)   Developed small properties (less than 2,400 square feet of impervious
surface) shall be billed one ERU per month.
   (D)   Large developed properties (more than 2,400 square feet of impervious
surface) shall be billed based upon the number of ERUs per month. If the square
feet is not a whole multiple of ERU, then it will be rounded up/down at 0.6.
   (E)   Shared parking areas will be billed to the property owner upon ERU.
   (F)   Properties having a water account will be billed monthly on the water
bill. Commercial properties without an active water account will be billed
monthly to the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 53.03) (Ord. passed 7-23-2002)
§ 154.23 APPEALS.
   Anyone who receives a storm water utility bill may appeal this bill. If the
appeal is based upon incorrect calculation of square feet or math/billing
error, it will be reviewed by the Town Manager or his or her designee. If it is
determined that the appeal is valid, an adjustment will be made in-house. If
the appeal is based upon change in ownership or occupancy, then the previous
owner/occupant will be responsible if the change occurs on or after the
fifteenth of the month. If the change occurs prior the fifteenth of the month,
then the current owner/occupant will be liable. If the appeal is based upon an
interpretation of this subchapter, questions concerning the impervious nature
or any other factors, then it will be presented to the Town Council at its next
regularly scheduled meeting.
(Prior Code, § 53.04) (Ord. passed 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 155: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Authorization; findings of fact
   
155.02   Purpose; objectives
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Application
   
155.05   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
155.06   Compliance; abrogation; greater restrictions
   
155.07   Interpretation
   
155.08   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
155.20   Development permit
   
155.21   Local Administrator
   
155.22   Variances
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
155.35   General standards
   
155.36   Standards where base flood elevation data available
   
155.37   Standards for streams without base flood elevations and/or floodways
 
   
155.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 155.01 AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has, in G.S. §§
143-215.56, and 153A-11, delegated the responsibility to local governmental
units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of its citizenry. Therefor, the Council does ordain as follows.
(Prior Code, § 151.01)
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards,
disruptions of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other properties which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or
otherwise protected from flood damages.
(Prior Code, § 151.02)
(Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 143-215.56 and 153A-11
§ 155.02 PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve the uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control fillings, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 151.03)
   (B)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize the expenditure of public money for costly flood
control projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines and streets and bridges
located in floodplains;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future
flood blight areas; and
      (7)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is
in a flood area.
(Prior Code, § 151.04)
(Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request from a review of the local administrator’s interpretation
of any provisions of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. The lowest level or story which has its floor subgrade on all
sides.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for support, shelter or enclosure for any
occupancy or storage.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means to fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). The official map issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency where the areas of special flood hazard have been
designated as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The Official Map of a community on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement), such as top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood
flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a
garage used solely for parking vehicles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. The facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading
of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood processing
facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or
service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOD. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOMES. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable structures
placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved
property.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It
is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with NATIONAL
GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq., includes substantial improvement and means the date the building
permit was issued; provided, the ACTUAL START of construction, repair,
reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including a manufactured home) on a site such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, installation of piles, construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of manufactured home on a foundation.
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms, nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a
manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank or other human-made facilities
or infrastructures.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. The cost of any repair, reconstruction or
improvement of a structure which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure, either before the improvement or repair is started or before the
damage occurred, if the structure has been damaged and is being restored. For
the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur
when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code inspections which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or a state inventory of historic places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
(Prior Code, § 151.05) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
§ 155.04 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 151.06) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
§ 155.05 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration in its Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) #H-01, dated 3-26-1976,
and any revision thereto are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.07) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
§ 155.06 COMPLIANCE; ABROGATION; GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located or
extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 151.08)
   (B)   Abrogation and greater restrictions.
      (1)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
      (2)   However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the most stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 151.09)
(Ord. passed 1-8-1987) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 151.10) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
§ 155.08 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within the areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town or by any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administration decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 151.11) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 155.20 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the Building
Inspector on forms furnished by him or her or may include, but not be limited
to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage or materials; drainage facilities; and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the non- residential flood-proofed structure meets the flood-proofing
criteria herein;
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Provide a flood elevation or flood-proofing certification after the
lowest floor is completed.
   (C)   Within 21 calendar days of establishment of the lowest floor elevation
or flood-proofing by whatever construction means, whichever is applicable, it
shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Building Inspector a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed elevation,
whichever is applicable, as built in relation to mean sea level. The
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. When
flood-proofing is utilized for a particular building, the certification shall
be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or
architect and certified by same. Any work done within the 21-day calendar
period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the permit
holder’s risk. The Building Inspector shall review the floor elevation survey
data submitted.
   (D)   Deficiencies detected by the review shall be corrected by the permit
holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted to
proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make the corrections
required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
(Prior Code, § 151.25) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
§ 155.21 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is hereby appointed to administer and implement
this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in
accordance with its provisions.
   (B)   Duties of the Local Administrator shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Review all development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine if proposed development
adversely affects the flood-carrying capacity of the floodplain. For purposes
of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means damage to adjacent property because of
rises in flood stages attributed to physical changes of the channel and the
adjacent overbank areas.
         (a)   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration.
         (b)   If it is determined there is an adverse effect, then technical
justification (such as a registered professional engineering analysis) for the
proposed development shall be required.
         (c)   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions
of this chapter shall apply.
      (3)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be
required and, if specific federal or state permits are known, require that
copies of the permits be provided and maintained on file with the development
permit;
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
of the National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse and submit evidence of the notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency;
      (5)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (6)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, in accordance with §
155.20 of this chapter;
      (7)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the new or substantially improved structures have been flood-
proofed, in accordance with §
155.36 of this chapter;
      (8)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Local Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered professional
engineer or architect, in accordance with §
155.36 of this chapter;
      (9)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Local Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation, as provided in this subchapter;
      (10)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
155.05 of the chapter, then the Local Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data available from a federal,
state or other source including data developed pursuant to §
155.35 of this chapter, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
and
      (11)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the Local Administrator and shall be open for
public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 151.26) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
§ 155.22 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment, as established by the town, shall hear
and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made
by the Local Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Zoning Adjustment
or any taxpayer may appeal the decision to Superior Court, as provided in G.S.
Chapter 7A.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
   (E)   In passing upon the applications, the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall
consider:
      (1)   All technical evaluations, all relevant factors and all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (6)   The necessity of the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage for the proposed use;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (12)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purpose of this
chapter, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation. The notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (4)   The Local Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
upon request.
(Prior Code, § 151.27) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 7A
**** FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION ****
§ 155.35 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a community’s
FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize
flood damage. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use of over-
the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
      (4)   New construction or substantial improvements of buildings that
include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the base flood elevation shall be designed to allow for the entry and
exit of flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls. Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the minimal criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges for the systems into flood waters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electric and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   Encroachments.
      (1)   The cumulative effect of any proposed development shall not
adversely affect the area of special flood hazard.
      (2)   This determination is to be in accordance with §
155.21 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.40) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.36 STANDARDS WHERE BASE FLOOD ELEVATION DATA AVAILABLE.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth herein, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated no lower than two feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid
foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient
to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than two
feet above the level of the base flood elevation. Structures located in A-zones
may be flood-proofed in lieu of elevation; provided that, all areas of the
structure below the required elevation are water-tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components that have the
effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall
certify that the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. The
certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in this section.
(Prior Code, § 151.41) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
§ 155.37 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Sites located within the areas of special flood hazard where small streams
exist, but where no base flood data has been provided or where no floodways
have been provided, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within a distance of the stream bank equal to two times the width of
the stream at the top of bank or 20 feet each side from top of bank, whichever
is greater, unless certification by a registered professional engineer is
provided demonstrating that the encroachments shall not result in any increase
in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood-proofed in accordance with elevations established in
accordance herewith. When base flood elevation data is not available from a
federal, state or other source, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated, at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
Prior Code, § 151.42) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Any person who violates this chapter
or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days or both and,
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the town from taking other lawful action is as
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 151.99) (Ord. passed 1-8-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 14-4
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISION
Section
   
156.01   Generally
§ 156.01 GENERALLY.
   For subdivision regulations, see the town’s Unified Development Ordinance.
CHAPTER 157: ZONING
Section
   
157.01   Generally
§ 157.01 GENERALLY.
   For zoning regulations, see the town’s Unified Development Ordinance.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ACCEPTANCES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   EASEMENTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
                        Donation of 80.71 acres of land to the town for the
–      - -            purpose of assisting the town in establishing a public
                        municipal airport by J.P. Stevens and Company, Inc.
                       
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
–      3-13-1952      Portion of Lot 1 in Block 49 which has been outside of
                        the corporate limits.
                        Area 1: beginning at the point where the present
                        corporation limit line intersects the centerline of
                        West Main Street (NC Highway 41). Area 2: beginning at
                        a stake 250 feet, more or less, east of the present
                        corporate limit line at the junction of Murray Street
                        and Teachey Road and continuing that parallel of 250
–      4-25-1960      feet to the right of Teachey Road as it progresses
                        toward Highway 117. Area 3: beginning at the point
                        where the western right-of-way line of Highway 117
                        intersects the southern corporate limit line. Area 4:
                        beginning at a stake approximately 150 feet west of the
                        western right-of-way line of South Orange Street and
                        running thence south approximately 400 feet to a stake.
                        Beginning at the point where the present corporate
                        limit line intersects the southern right-of-way line of
–      7-6-1960       West Main Street (NC Highway 41) and running thence in
                        a westerly direction with the southern right-of-way
                        line of NC Highway 41, 2166 feet, more or less, to a
                        stake.
                        Beginning at an iron pipe at the intersection of the
–      10-12-1972     east line of the 100-foot right-of-way of US Highway
                        117 and the northeast line of the 60-foot right-of-way
                        of the Old Teachey Road (SR 1163).
–      7-22-1976      Adopting Ord. 76-6 which extends the corporate limits
                        of the town.
                        Beginning at a point on the southern right-of-way line
                        of Bray Street, a corner of the existing corporate
                        limit line of the town, a point being located south 87
–      7-22-1976      degrees, 3 minutes, 47 seconds east 13.57 feet from an
                        iron pipe in the southern right-of-way line of Bray
                        Street, corner of Lots 3 and 4 in Prosperity
                        Subdivision.
                        Beginning at an iron pipe in the center of the Boney
                        Bridge Road, SR 1307, a beginning corner being located
–      6-28-1979      north 59 degrees, 25 minutes east, 622.56 feet with the
                        centerline of the Boney Bridge Road from the northeast
                        corner of Lot 29 in the Herbert E. Miller, Jr.
                        Subdivision No. 2.
                        Beginning at an existing iron pipe, which existing iron
                        pipe is located south 67 degrees, 04 minutes, 55
–      6-24-1982      seconds west from an existing concrete monument in the
                        western margin of the 65-foot right-of-way of S.W.
                        Railroad Street.
                        Beginning at an iron stake at the intersection of the
–      7-12-1984      south line of the 60-foot right-of-way of old NC
                        Highway 41 and the north line of the 30-foot right-of-
                        way of New Street at Corner A.
                       
 
TABLE III: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
                        Deed of easement for a new street running perpendicular
–      4-9-1959       to Westbrook Street between lots owned by Haywood Usher
                        and Buddy B. Turner to be named Onslow Street.
                       
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
–      3-8-1951       Tide Water Power Company is given the right to erect,
                        operate and maintain an electric distribution system.
                        Univision Cable Systems of Richlands, Inc., is given
–      1-9-1986       the right to construct and maintain a cable television
                        system.
                       
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
                        Offering Stout Realty Company $25,000 for the property
–      - -            formerly owned by Bostic-Hawes Motors on North Norwood
                        Street.
                       
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
–      4-9-1959       Zoning property as neighborhood business property.
                        The official zoning map is amended by adding thereto
–      9-12-1963      the areas annexed to the town 3-10-1960 and 4-25-1960
                        and those areas are divided into the several zoning
                        districts according to the zoning map.
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                    Code Section
Chapter 7A                      155.22
                                70.99;
                                92.18;
14-4                            94.99;
                                95.99;
                                116.99;
                                155.99
14-202(a)55                     50.001
14-410 et seq.                  91.03
14-417                          90.14
14-417.1                        90.14
14-417.2                        90.14
15-27.2                         92.18
Chapter 18B                     Charter §
                                5.1
18B-300                         111.02
Chapter 20                      70.99;
                                153.41
20-4.01(12a)                    72.04
Chapter 20, Article 7A          93.07
20-114(c)                       93.06
20-125.1                        72.05
20-129(b)                       72.05
20-129(d)                       72.05
20-129(g)                       72.05
20-141                          70.99;
                                70.04
20-154                          72.07
20-158                          Ch. 73, Schd. III
20-176                          70.99
                                93.10;
20-219.11                       118.02;
                                118.03
20-219.2                        118.02
20-219.9                        93.07;
                                93.07
20-280                          115.09
Chapter 44A                     93.06
44A-1                           93.06
44A-4                           93.07
44A-4 through 44A-6             93.07
44A-4(c)                        93.06
44A-5                           93.06;
                                93.07
44A-6                           93.06;
                                93.07
63-30 et seq.                   Ch. 153
63-53                           31.41;
                                Ch. 153
Ch. 93B                         110.07
97-1 et seq.                    31.40
105-164.3(17)                   115.20
105-187.1(3)                    115.20
105-187.1(7)                    115.20
105-271 et seq.                 32.02
105-349                         115.20
121-5                           110.17
130A-185                        90.05
130A-189                        90.05
130A-290(a)(26)                 52.01
                                50.002;
143-215.1                       50.098;
                                50.099
143-215.1(b)(4)c                50.098
143-215.1(d)                    50.002
143-215.3(a)(14)                50.002
143-215.6B                      50.121
143-215.56                      155.01
143-213(18)                     50.002
153A-11                         155.01
153A-132.1                      52.01
153A-275                        50.001
160A-1                          Charter §
                                1.2
Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2 Charter §
                                4.1
160A-22                         Charter §
                                1.3
160A-61                         31.01
                                Charter §
160A-63                         2.7;
                                30.02
160A-64                         31.02
160A-66                         30.01
160A-67                         30.01
160A-68                         30.02
160A-69                         30.17;
                                30.20
160A-70                         30.17
160A-71                         30.15
                                Charter §
160A-74                         2.6;
                                30.16
160A-173                        31.19
160A-174                        90.13;
                                112.01
160A-174(a)                     92.15
160A-175                        70.99;
                                95.99
160A-178                        116.01
160A-179                        116.01
160A-183                        91.03
160A-184                        92.35
                                92.02;
160A-193                        92.15;
                                154.08
160A-208.1                      115.22
160A-209                        32.01
160A-215.1(e)(2)                115.20
160A-266                        32.04
160A-266(c)                     32.04
160A-291                        31.15
160A-292                        31.15
160A-296                        92.02;
                                Ch. 150
160A-300.6                      72.01
160A-301                        Ch. 71
160A-301(d)                     71.04
160A-303                        93.01
160A-303(c)                     93.04;
                                93.05
160A-303.2                      93.08
160A-312                        50.001
160A-350 et seq.                31.38
160A-354                        31.38
160A-388                        153.09
160A-435 through 160A-438       91.01
160D-301                        31.37
160D-302                        31.36
Chapter 163                     30.40
Chapter 163, Subchapter IX      30.02
163-54 et seq.                  30.42
163-55(a)(2)                    30.42
163-279                         30.41
163-279(a)(1)                   30.40
163-292                         Charter §
                                3.1
166A-19.15                      130.05
1601-75                         Charter §
                                2.6
                                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02              10.02
10.03              10.03
10.04              10.04
10.05              10.05
10.06              10.06
10.07              10.07
10.08              10.08
10.09              10.09
10.10              10.10
10.11              10.11
10.12              10.12
10.13              10.13
10.14              10.14
10.15              10.14
10.16              10.14
10.17              10.15
30.01              30.02
30.02              30.02
30.03              30.02
30.15              30.15
30.16              30.16
30.17              30.17
30.18              30.17
30.19              30.18
30.21              30.19
30.22              30.19
30.23              30.20
30.24              30.20
30.25              30.21
30.26              30.21
30.29              30.22
30.30              30.23
31.01              31.01
31.02              31.02
31.15              31.17
31.16              31.15
31.18              30.01
31.20              31.18
31.22              31.16
31.23              31.19
32.015             31.36
32.030             31.37
32.031             31.37
32.032             31.37
32.034             31.37
32.050             31.38
32.051             31.38
32.052             31.38
32.055             31.38
32.070             31.39
32.085             31.40
32.100             31.41
32.101             31.41
32.102             31.41
33.01              30.40
33.02              30.41
33.03              30.42
33.04              30.43
34.01              31.03
34.02              31.04
35.01              32.01
35.02              32.02
35.03              32.03
50.003             50.007
50.020             50.020
50.021             50.021
50.022             50.022
50.023             50.023
50.024             50.024
50.025             50.025
50.075             50.115
50.076             50.116
50.077             50.117
50.090             50.008
51.002             51.01
51.003             51.02
51.015             51.20
51.016             51.21
51.017             51.22
51.018             51.23
51.019             51.24
51.020             51.25
51.021             51.26
51.022             51.27
51.023             51.28
51.024             51.29
51.040             51.45
51.041             51.46
51.042             51.47
51.043             51.48
51.044             51.49
51.045             51.50
51.047             51.51
51.060             51.02
51.061             51.02
51.062             51.02
51.075             51.04
51.076             51.04
51.077             51.04
51.090             51.05
51.091             51.05
51.092             51.05
51.105             51.06
51.999             51.99
52.01              154.01
52.02              154.02
52.03              154.03
52.04              154.04
52.05              154.05
52.06              154.06
52.07              154.07
52.08              154.08
53.01              154.20
53.02              154.21
53.03              154.22
53.04              154.23
70.99              70.99
71.01              70.01
71.02              70.02
71.04              70.03
71.05              70.04
72.01              71.01
72.02              71.02
72.03              71.04
72.04              71.06
72.05              71.20
72.06              71.21
72.07              71.22
72.08              71.23
72.09              71.24
72.10              71.03
72.11              71.03
72.12              71.05
72.99              70.99
Ch. 73, Schd. VII  Ch. 74, Schd. III
Ch. 73, Schd. IV   Ch. 74, Schd. III
Ch. 73, Schd. II   Ch. 73, Schd. II
Ch. 73, Schd. III  Ch. 73, Schd. III
Ch. 73, Schd. IV   Ch. 73, Schd. IV
Ch. 73, Schd. VI   Ch. 73, Schd. VI
Ch. 73, Schd. V    Ch. 73, Schd. V
Ch. 73, Schd. I    Ch. 73, Schd. I
Ch. 74, Schd. III  Ch. 74, Schd. III
Ch. 74, Schd. II   Ch. 74, Schd. II
Ch. 74, Schd. I    Ch. 74, Schd. I
Ch. 74, Schd. VI   Ch. 74, Schd. V
Ch. 74, Schd. V    Ch. 74, Schd. IV
91.01              33.01
91.02              33.02
92.01              91.01
92.02              91.02
92.03              91.03
92.04              91.04
93.01              52.01
93.15              52.15
93.16              52.16
93.17              52.17
93.18              52.18
93.19              52.19
93.20              52.20
93.21              52.21
93.22              52.22
93.23              52.23
93.24              52.24
93.25              52.25
93.40              52.40
93.41              52.40
93.42              52.40
93.55              52.41
93.59              52.42
93.61              52.43
93.62              52.44
93.99              52.99
94.01              92.01
94.02              92.03
96.01              92.02
96.02              92.04
96.16              93.02
96.18              93.04
96.19              93.05
96.21              93.07
96.35              92.35
96.36              92.36
96.37              92.37
96.38              92.38
96.99              92.99
97.01              94.01
97.02              94.02
97.03              94.03
97.04              94.04
97.05              94.05
97.99              94.99
98.01              150.01
98.02              150.02
98.03              150.03
98.04              150.04
98.05              150.05
98.20              151.01
98.21              151.02
98.23              151.03
98.24              151.04
98.25              151.04
98.26              151.04
98.27              151.05
98.28              151.06
98.29              151.07
98.30              151.08
98.31              151.09
98.32              151.10
98.33              151.11
98.34              151.12
98.99              151.99
111.01             111.01
111.02             111.02
111.99             111.99
112.01             110.40
112.02             110.41
112.03             110.42
112.04             110.43
112.05             110.44
112.06             110.45
112.07             110.46
112.08             110.47
112.09             110.48
114.01             113.01
114.02             113.02
114.03             113.03
114.04             113.04
114.05             113.05
114.06             113.06
114.07             113.07
114.08             113.08
114.09             113.09
115.01             114.01
115.02             114.02
115.03             114.20
115.04             114.21
115.05             114.22
115.06             114.23
115.07             114.03
115.08             114.04
115.09             114.05
115.10             114.24
115.11             114.06
115.12             114.07
115.13             114.08
115.14             114.25
116.01             115.01
116.02             115.02
116.03             115.03
116.04             115.04
116.05             115.05
116.06             115.06
116.07             115.07
116.08             115.08
116.09             115.09
116.20             115.20
116.22             115.21
116.23             115.22
116.24             115.23
116.25             115.24
116.99             115.99
118.01             117.01
118.02             117.02
118.03             117.03
130.01             130.01
131.01             130.02
131.02             130.03
132.01             130.04
132.02             130.05
132.03             130.06
132.04             130.07
132.05             130.08
132.06             130.09
132.99             130.99
150.01             153.01
150.02             153.02
150.03             153.03
150.04             153.04
150.05             153.05
150.06             153.05
150.07             153.06
150.08             153.07
150.09             153.08
150.10             153.09
150.11             153.09
150.99             153.99
151.01             155.01
151.02             155.01
151.03             155.02
151.04             155.02
151.05             155.03
151.06             155.04
151.07             155.05
151.08             155.06
151.09             155.06
151.10             155.07
151.11             155.08
151.25             155.20
151.26             155.21
151.27             155.22
151.40             155.35
151.41             155.36
151.42             155.37
151.99             155.99
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      7-9-1981    30.40
–      - -2003     31.04
–      12-11-2003  31.39
–      4-14-2016   111.03
–      2-10-2022   Ch. 75, Schd. IV
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed    Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed    Code Section
–      - -         TSO Table I
–      - -         TSO Table V
–      - -         52.01
–      - -         150.03
–      1-20-1941   91.01
                     Ch. 74, Schd. III,
–      11-6-1947   IV,
                     V
–      3-9-1950    70.03
–      3-8-1951    TSO Table IV
–      5-10-1951   31.37
–      3-13-1952   TSO Table II
–      1-28-1954   130.01
–      4-25-1958   70.04
–      9-11-1958   91.01
                     70.03;
–      4-9-1959    TSO Table III,
                     VI
–      4-25-1960   TSO Table II
–      7-6-1960    TSO Table II
                     153.01—
–      3-14-1963   153.09;
                     153.99
–      9-12-1963   TSO Table VI
–      6-11-1964   Ch. 73, Schd. I
–      6-8-1965    Ch. 73, Schd. I
–      - -1966     31.37
–      4-11-1968   33.01
–      10-9-1969   51.22
–      4-8-1971    Ch. 74, Schd. II
–      9-9-1971    130.09
–      11-11-1971  31.37
–      8-10-1972   111.01
–      10-12-1972  TSO Table II
–      4-25-1974   150.02
                     51.02;
                     51.21;
–      5-30-1974   51.23;
                     51.29;
                     51.45
–      5-8-1975    31.38
                     114.01—
–      11-13-1975  114.08;
                     114.20—
                     114.25
–      7-22-1976   TSO Table II
76-7     9-9-1976    31.38
–      12-8-1977   Ch. 74, Schd. II
–      6-28-1979   TSO Table II
–      3-13-1980   Ch. 74, Schd. III
–      5-8-1980    Ch. 74, Schd. II
–      6-30-1980   51.50
–      8-14-1980   Ch. 74, Schd. II
–      8-26-1980   Ch. 74, Schd. I
–      6-10-1981   Ch. 73, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. II
–      5-13-1982   113.01—
                     113.09
–      6-4-1982    51.47
                     51.21;
–      6-24-1982   51.28;
                     51.50
–      6-24-1982   TSO Table II
                     92.35—
–      10-5-1982   92.38;
                     92.99
–      6-21-1983   51.50
                     50.007;
–      4-12-1984   50.020—
                     50.025;
                     50.116
–      7-12-1984   TSO Table II
                     94.01—
–      7-13-1984   94.05;
                     94.99
–      10-10-1985  32.04
–      12-12-1985  111.02;
                     111.99
–      1-9-1986    TSO Table IV
–      11-14-1986  50.115
                     155.01—
                     155.08;
                     155.20—
–      1-8-1987    155.22;
                     155.35—
                     155.37;
                     155.99
–      7-10-1987   70.99;
                     Ch. 73, Schd. IV
–      11-10-1988  150.05
–      12-8-1988   111.01
–      3-10-1989   150.04
–      10-10-1991  51.22
–      7-9-1992    130.05;
                     130.99
                     52.01;
                     52.15—
–      9-10-1992   52.25;
                     52.40;
                     52.41;
                     52.99
                     52.01;
–      4-8-1993    52.43;
                     52.44;
                     52.99
–      4-20-1995   51.22
–      11-9-1995   92.03
–      - -1997     154.01—
                     154.08
–      12-9-1999   91.04
–      7-13-2000   115.20—
                     115.24
–      10-12-2000  117.01—
                     117.03
–      5-10-2001   52.41
–      7-23-2002   154.20—
                     154.23
00277d   2-4-2003    50.099
–      6-12-2003   51.05
–      9-1-2003    52.22
–      12-11-2003  31.40
–      1-13-2005   150.01
                     151.01—
–      11-10-2005  151.12;
                     151.99
–      5-10-2007   31.41
–      9-10-2009   50.008;
                     51.06
2016-001 1-14-2016   110.01—
                     110.24
                     153.20—
                     153.29;
–      - -2019     153.44—
                     153.52;
                     153.99
–      6-13-2019   Ch. 74, Schd. III
                     70.99;
–      7-12-2019   70.04;
                     Ch. 73, Schd. I
–      10-8-2019   153.40—
                     153.43
–      2-13-2020   71.04
                     70.99;
–      5-14-2020   72.01—
                     72.07
                     70.99;
                     Ch. 73, Schd. III;
–      6-11-2020   116.01—
                     116.12;
                     116.99
–      7-30-2020   31.42
                     112.01—
–      12-10-2020  112.07;
                     112.99
                     95.01—
–      8-12-2021   95.12;
                     95.99
                     93.01;
                     93.03;
–      9-9-2021    93.06;
                     93.08—
                     93.13;
                     93.99
                     50.001—
                     50.006;
                     50.040—
                     50.047;
                     50.060—
                     50.065;
                     50.080—
–      10-14-2021  50.083;
                     50.095—
                     50.101;
                     50.118—
                     50.123;
                     50.135—
                     50.146;
                     50.999
–      11-9-2021   50.022
–      1-13-2022   111.01
24-04    1-11-2024   92.36
–      6-12-2025   31.40
25-03    6-12-2025   92.45
25-04    6-12-2025   92.15—
                     92.19
25-05    6-12-2025   92.99
                     90.01—
25-03    8-11-2025   90.15;
                     90.99
                    
 
 
Wallace, NC Zoning Code
Current through January 14, 2021
Chapter 1 – General Provisions
Table of Contents
   
1.1   Official Title
   
1.2   Effective Date
   
1.3   Authority
   
1.4   General Purpose and Intent
   
1.5   Applicability and Jurisdiction
   
1.6   Relationship to the Comprehensive Land Use Plan
   
1.7   Relationship with Other Laws
   
1.8   Severability
   
1.9   Zoning Map
   
1.10   Transitional Provisions
   
1.11   Vested Rights
1.1   OFFICIAL TITLE
   This ordinance shall be officially known as the “Unified Development
Ordinance of the Town of Wallace, North Carolina” and may be referred to as the
“Unified Development Ordinance” or “this ordinance” or the “UDO.”
1.2   EFFECTIVE DATE
   This UDO was adopted on November 14, 2013 and became effective on November
15, 2013.
1.3   AUTHORITY
   A.   GENERAL AUTHORITY
   This Ordinance consolidates the Town’s zoning and subdivision regulatory
authority and is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in Chapter 160D;
and Chapter 136, Article 3A; of the North Carolina General Statutes; and the
Town of Wallace Charter, as amended.
   B.   REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
   Whenever any provision of this Ordinance refers to or cites a section of the
North Carolina General Statutes and that section is later amended or
superseded, this Ordinance shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended
section or the section that most nearly corresponds to the superseded section.
1.4   GENERAL PURPOSE AND INTENT
   This UDO is adopted to preserve, protect, and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of residents and businesses in the Town. More
specifically, this UDO is adopted to achieve the following objectives:
   A.   Implement the policies and goals contained within officially adopted
plans, including the Comprehensive Land Use Plan;
   B.   Improve the built environment and human habitat;
   C.   Conserve and protect the Town’s natural beauty and setting, including
trees and cultural and historic resources;
   D.   Ensure that new development conserves energy, land, and natural
resources;
   E.   Encourage environmentally responsible development practices;
   F.   Promote development patterns that support safe, effective, and multi-
modal transportation options, including auto, pedestrian, and bicycle and
therefore minimize vehicle traffic by providing for a mixture of land uses,
walkability, and compact community form;
   G.   Provide neighborhoods with a variety of housing types to serve the
needs of a diverse population;
   H.   Promote the greater health benefits of a pedestrian-oriented
environment;
   I.   Reinforce the character and quality of neighborhoods;
   J.   Remove barriers and provide incentives for walkable projects;
   K.   Protect and promote appropriately located commercial and industrial
activities in order to preserve and strengthen the Town’s economic base;
   L.   Ensure that adequate facilities are constructed to serve new
development;
   M.   Provide for orderly growth and development of suitable neighborhoods
with adequate transportation networks, drainage and utilities and appropriate
building sites;
   N.   Save unnecessary expenditures of funds by requiring the proper initial
construction of transportation networks, sidewalks, drainage facilities and
utilities; and
   O.   Provide land records for the convenience of the public and for better
identification and permanent location of real estate boundaries.
1.5   APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION
   A.   GENERAL APPLICABILITY
   This UDO applies to all land, buildings, structures, and uses located within
the corporate limits and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town of
Wallace, North Carolina. To the extent allowed by law, the provisions of this
UDO applies to all land, buildings, structures, and uses owned, leased, or
otherwise controlled by any district, County, State, or Federal government
agencies.
   B.   REQUIRED CONFORMANCE TO PROVISIONS
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Ordinance, no land or
structure shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no excavation, removal of
soil, clearing of a site, or placing of fill shall take place on lands
contemplated for development, no land shall be subdivided, and no structure, or
part thereof, shall be constructed, erected, altered, renovated, or moved,
except in compliance with all of the applicable provisions of this Ordinance.
1.6   RELATIONSHIP TO THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
   The Comprehensive Land Use Plan serves as the basic policy guide for
development under this UDO. The policies and action items of the Comprehensive
Plan may be amended from time to time to meet the changing requirements of the
Town in accordance with the standards and procedures in Section
2.8, COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
1.7   RELATIONSHIP WITH OTHER LAWS
   A.   PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS
   Neither this Ordinance, nor any material included herein by reference nor
material used for the administration of this Ordinance, are intended to, nor do
they take any property, property right, nor property use, nor convert any of
these to public use except by due process of law.
   B.   CONFLICTS WITH OTHER LAWS, ORDINANCES OR REGULATIONS
      1.   If any provisions of this UDO are inconsistent with similar
provisions of State or Federal law, the more restrictive provision shall
control, to the extent permitted by law.
      2.   Conflicts and duplications among portions of this UDO shall be
resolved in favor of the more stringent regulation.
      3.   The adoption of this Ordinance shall have the following effect upon
violations of the previous ordinance that existed on the effective date of this
Ordinance:
   C.   CONFLICTS WITH PRIOR ORDINANCES
   If the circumstances that constituted the violation under the previous
ordinance do not constitute a violation under this Ordinance, then no further
punitive or corrective action shall be taken with respect to the previous
violation.
      1.   If the situation that constituted the violation under the previous
ordinance continues to constitute a violation under this Ordinance, then
appropriate corrective or punitive action may be taken under this Ordinance.
      2.   If a non-conforming situation or condition was created under the
previous ordinance and that non-conforming situation or condition resulted in a
violation of that ordinance, and the violation consisted of the failure to
correct or terminate the non-conforming situation when required to do so under
the previous Ordinance, and under the new Ordinance the situation or condition
is still not permissible, then passage of the new Ordinance shall not prevent
appropriate enforcement action to require the termination of the non-conforming
situation, even if termination of the non-conforming situation would not be
required under this Ordinance.
1.8   SEVERABILITY
   It is expressly declared that this UDO and each section, subsection,
sentence, and phrase would have been adopted regardless of whether one or more
other portions of the UDO are declared invalid or unconstitutional.
   A.   If any section, subsection, sentence, or phrase of this UDO is held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction for any
reason, the remaining portions of this UDO shall not be affected.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates the application of
any provision of this UDO, then such judgment shall not affect the application
of that provision to any other building, structure, or use not specifically
included in that judgment.
1.9   ZONING MAP
   A.   GENERALLY
   The Official Zoning Map designates the location and boundaries of the
various base zoning and overlay zoning districts established in this Ordinance.
The Official Zoning Map shall be kept on file in the Planning Department and is
available for public inspection during normal business hours. The original
official version of the map shall be certified by the Planning Director. It may
be kept in either hardcopy or digital form. It shall be the final authority as
to the status of the current zoning district classification of land in the
town, and shall only be amended in accordance with this Ordinance. In
accordance with N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160A-22, the Town Clerk shall certify the
Official Zoning Map for use as evidence in a court of law. Copies of the zoning
district map may be reproduced by any method of reproduction that gives legible
and permanent copies and, when certified by the Town Clerk in accordance with
G.S. 160A-79, shall be admissible into evidence and shall have the same force
and effect as would the original map.
   B.   INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
   The Official Zoning Map, and all the notations thereon, is incorporated
herein by reference and made part of this Ordinance.
   C.   ZONING CLASSIFICATION OF LANDS ADDED TO JURISDICTION
      1.   TOWN BOARD DETERMINATION
      The Town Council shall determine the zoning designation of lands added to
the town's jurisdiction through annexation or through extensions of the Town’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction at the time such lands are added based on the
following factors: The land’s designation on adopted plans addressing the
town’s growth and development;
            (a)   The land’s current land use;
            (b)   The existence of a previously-approved site or subdivision
plan;
            (c)   The character of adjacent lands;
            (d)   Current county zoning classifications, if applicable;
            (e)   Landowner requests; and
            (f)   Other factors considered relevant at the time of the
annexation.
      2.   RELATIONSHIP TO VOLUNTARY ANNEXATION REQUESTS
      Where an area is proposed to be added to the town’s jurisdiction through
a landowner’s petition for voluntary annexation, the landowner may submit an
application for a Zoning Map Amendment (See Section
3.6 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE, COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN, AND
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS ) requesting a specific zoning district
classification along with the annexation petition. In such a case, the public
hearing for the Zoning Map Amendment application may be held concurrently with
any public hearing required for the annexation.
      3.   RELATIONSHIP TO INVOLUNTARY ANNEXATION
         Where an area is proposed to be added to the town’s jurisdiction
through the involuntary annexation process, a landowner may submit an
application for a Zoning Map Amendment (See Section
3.6 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE, COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN, AND
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS) requesting a specific zoning district
classification.
   D.   INTERPRETATION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP BOUNDARIES
      1.   The Planning Director shall be responsible for interpretations of
the Official Zoning Map in accordance with the following requirements:
            (a)   Boundaries shown as approximately following a utility line or
a street, alley, railroad, or other public access way shall be interpreted as
following the centerline of the right-of-way or easement for the utility line
or access way.
            (b)   Boundaries shown as approximately following a property line
shall be interpreted as following the property line as it existed when the
boundary was established. If a subsequent minor adjustment (such as from
settlement of a boundary dispute or overlap) results in the property line
moving ten feet or less, the zoning boundary shall be interpreted as moving
with the property line.
            (c)   Boundaries shown as approximately following a river, stream,
canal, lake, or other watercourse shall be interpreted as following the
centerline of the watercourse as it actually exists, and as moving with that
centerline to the extent the watercourse moves as a result of natural processes
(flooding, erosion, sedimentation, etc.).
            (d)   Boundaries shown as approximately following established
municipal corporate limits or other political boundaries shall be interpreted
as following the corporate limits or boundary as they existed when the boundary
was established.
            (e)   Boundaries shown parallel to or as extensions of features
indicated in this subsection shall be interpreted as such.
       2.   If the specific location of a depicted boundary cannot be
determined from notations on the Official Zoning Map or application of the
above standards, it shall be determined by using the map’s scale to determine
the boundary’s distance from other features shown on the map.
      3.   Where the actual locations of existing physical or natural features
vary from that shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances not
covered by this subsection, the Planning Director shall have the authority to
interpret the district boundaries. Appeals of the Planning Director’s decision
shall be reviewed by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section
3.10, Appeal.
   E.   CHANGES TO OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
   Changes made in zoning district boundaries, including requests for a
rezoning, or other matters portrayed on the Official Zoning Map shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.6 of this Ordinance. Changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map by
the Planning Director promptly after the amendment is approved by the Town
Council. Where the ordinance enacting a zoning district boundary change
contains wording explaining or clarifying the location of the new boundary, the
Planning Director may enter on the Official Zoning Map notations reflecting the
ordinance wording. The Planning Director shall maintain copies of superseded
versions of the Official Zoning Map for historical reference.
1.10   TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
   A.   VIOLATIONS CONTINUE
   Subject to the specific provisions of Section
1.7 above, any violation of the previous zoning regulations or subdivision
regulations shall continue to be a violation under this Ordinance and any other
applicable ordinances, laws, or statutes. Violations of this Ordinance shall be
subject to the penalties set forth in Section 9, ENFORCEMENT, and any other
applicable ordinances, laws, or statutes, unless the development complies with
the express terms of this Ordinance or the other ordinances, laws, or statutes.
   B.   COMPLETE APPLICATIONS
      1.   Any development application submitted and accepted as complete
before effective date, but still pending final action as of that date, shall be
reviewed and decided in accordance with the regulations in effect when the
application was accepted. No application shall be considered complete unless
and until the entire application fee has been paid in accordance with the
current fee schedule. To the extent such an application is approved and
proposes development that does not comply with this Ordinance, the subsequent
development, although permitted, shall be nonconforming and subject to the
provisions of Section 7, NONCONFORMITIES.
      2.   Completed applications shall be processed in good faith and shall
comply with any time frames for review, approval, and completion as established
in the regulations in effect at the time the application is accepted as
complete. If a development is approved, but does not commence and continue
within the required time frames, it shall expire and future development of the
property shall be subject to the requirements of this Ordinance.
      3.   An applicant with a pending complete application accepted before
effective date may opt to have the proposed development reviewed and decided
under the standards of this Ordinance by withdrawing the pending application
and submitting a new application in accordance with the standards of this
Ordinance.
   C.   APPROVED APPLICATIONS
   Any development approval granted before the effective date of this Ordinance
shall remain valid until their expiration date. Developments with valid
approvals or permits may be carried out in accordance with the terms and
conditions of approval and the development standards in effect at the time of
approval, provided the permit or approval is valid and has not expired. If the
prior approval expires or is revoked (e.g., for failure to comply with the
terms and conditions of approval), any subsequent development application for
the site shall be subject to the procedures and standards of this Ordinance. To
the extent, a prior-approved application proposes development that does not
comply with this Ordinance, the subsequent development, although permitted,
shall be nonconforming and subject to the provisions of Section 7,
NONCONFORMITIES.
   D.   NONCONFORMITIES
   If any use, structure, lot, or sign legally existed on the effective date,
but does not fully comply with the standards of this Ordinance, then that use,
structure, lot, or sign shall be considered nonconforming under this Ordinance
and shall be controlled by the provisions of Section 7, NONCONFORMITIES.
1.11   VESTED RIGHTS
   A.   ESTABLISHMENT
   A vested right pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160D-108 and 160D-108.1 shall
be deemed established with respect to real property subject to the Town of
Wallace zoning jurisdiction upon approval by the permit-issuing authority of a
site specific vesting plan or multi-phase development plan following notice and
public hearing as required by this Ordinance. The establishment of a vested
right shall not preclude the application of overlay zoning that imposes
additional requirements but does not affect the allowable types or intensity of
uses, or the application of ordinances or regulations that are general in
nature and are applicable to all property subject to land use regulation by the
Town, including, but not limited to, building, fire, plumbing, electrical, and
mechanical codes. Otherwise, applicable new or amended regulations shall become
effective with respect to property that is subject to a site specific or multi-
phase development plan upon the expiration or termination of the vested right
in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   SITE-SPECIFIC AND MULTI-PHASE DEVELOPMENT PLANS
      1.   MULTI-PHASE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
   “Multi-phase development plan” means a development containing 25 acres or
more that is submitted for development permit approval to occur in more than
one phase and subject to a master development plan with committed elements
showing the type and intensity of use of each phase. A Multi-phase development
plan shall be deemed approved upon the effective date of the permit issuing
authority’s action. A multi-phased development is vested for the entire
development with the land development regulations then in place at the time a
site plan approval is granted for the initial phase of the multi-phased
development. A right which has been vested as provided for in this subsection
remains vested for a period of seven years from the time a site plan approval
is granted for the initial phase of the multi-phased development.
      2.   SITE SPECIFIC VESTING PLAN
   “Site specific vesting plan” means aa plan submitted to the Town in which
the applicant requests vesting pursuant to this UDO and in accordance with the
required procedure for approval, describing with reasonable certainty on the
plan the type and intensity of use for a specific parcel or parcels of
property. The following types of applications constitute a Site specific
vesting plan:
   A Special Use Permit pursuant to Section
3.8 of this Ordinance
         (a)   To qualify as a Site specific vesting plan, the plan submitted,
shall include the following information: total acreage of the site; approximate
boundaries of the site; significant topographical and other natural features
affecting development of the site; the approximate location on the site of all
proposed buildings and other structures (including roads and parking
facilities); maximum gross floor areas and impervious surface; and the
infrastructure on the site, including water, sewer, roads, and pedestrian
walkways.
         (b)   The permit-issuing authority may approve a Site specific vesting
plan upon such terms as may be reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare. The specific requirements of other sections of
this Ordinance shall be the presumptive minimum standards which applicants must
meet; however, the permit issuing authorities may waive or modify those minimum
requirements upon (i) the applicant’s specific, written request for a waiver or
modification and (ii) the presentation of satisfactory, competent evidence by
the applicant demonstrating that the applicant’s proposal otherwise satisfies
or meets the need the minimum standard to be waived or modified was intended to
address.
   C.   VESTED RIGHT
      1.   "Vested right" means the right to undertake and complete the
development and use of property under terms and conditions of an approved
building permit, or an approved site specific or multi-phase development plan,
including any amendments thereto. Conditional approval of a site specific or
multi-phase development plan shall result in a vested right, although failure
to abide by such terms and conditions will result in forfeiture thereof.
      2.   A variance shall not constitute a site specific or multi-phase
development plan, and a site specific or multi-phase development plan with a
condition that a variance be obtained shall not confer a vested right unless
the necessary variance is obtained. Neither a sketch plan nor any other
document which fails to describe with reasonable certainty the type and
intensity of use for a specified parcel or parcels of property may constitute a
site specific or multi-phase development plan.
   D.   DURATION AND TERMINATION OF STATUTORY VESTED RIGHTS
      1.   An approved Site specific vesting plan which has been vested as
provided for in this section shall remain vested for a period of two (2) years
from the date of approval. This vesting shall not be extended by any amendments
or modifications to a Site specific vesting plan unless the property owner (or
authorized agent) requests an extension in writing, and the permit-issuing
authority approves such extension.
      2.   An approved Multi-phase development plan which has been vested as
provided for in this section shall remain vested for a period of five (5)
years. The developer or landowner must submit a site specific vesting plan for
approval with respect to each phase in order to obtain final development
approval for such phase. This vesting shall not be extended by any amendments
or modifications to a Multi-phase development plan unless the property owner
(or authorized agent) requests an extension in writing, and permit-issuing
authority approves such extension.
      3.   Following approval or conditional approval of a Site Specific or
Multi-phase development plan, nothing in this section shall exempt such a plan
from subsequent reviews and approvals by the Town to ensure compliance with the
terms and conditions of the original approval, provided such reviews and
approvals are not inconsistent with said original approval. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit the Town from revoking the original approval for failure
to comply with applicable terms and conditions of approval or this Ordinance.
Upon revocation, the vesting of rights provided for under this section shall be
terminated.
      4.   A property owner who claims a common law or statutory vested right
for a property may request the Planning Director to acknowledge in writing the
existence of such vested rights for the property. The decision shall be subject
to appeal by the Board of Adjusment.
   E.   EXCEPTIONS
   Subject to Section
1.11(D), DURATION AND TERMINATION OF STATUTORY VESTED RIGHTS of this Ordinance,
a vested right, once established as provided for in this section, precludes any
zoning action by the town which would change, alter, prevent, diminish, or
otherwise delay the development or use of the property as set forth in an
approved site specific development or multi-phase development plan, except:
         (a)    With written consent of the affected landowner;
         (b)   Upon findings, by ordinance after notice and a public hearing,
that natural or man-made hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of the
property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health,
safety, and welfare if the project were to proceed as contemplated in the site
specific vesting plan;
         (c)   To the extent that the affected landowner receives compensation
for all costs, expenses, and other losses incurred by the landowner.
Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the property
which is caused by such action;
         (d)   Upon finding, by ordinance after notice and public hearing, that
the landowner or his representative intentionally supplied inaccurate
information or made material misrepresentations which made a difference in the
approval by the town of the site specific or multi-phase development plan; or
         (e)   Upon enactment or promulgation of a state of federal law or
regulation which precluded development as contemplated in the site specific
vesting plan, in which case the Town may modify the affected provisions, upon
finding that the change in the state or federal law has a fundamental effect on
the plan, by ordinance after notice and a hearing.
   F.   PERMIT CHOICE
   If a land development regulation is amended between the time a development
permit application was submitted and a development permit decision is made or
if a land development regulation is amended after a development permit decision
has been challenged and found to be wrongfully denied or illegal, G.S. 143-755
applies.
Chapter 2 – Administration
Table of Contents
   
2.1   Review And Decision-Making Bodies
   
2.2   Town Council
   
2.3    Planning Board
   
2.4   Board of Adjustment
   
2.5   Historic District Commission
   
2.6   Technical Review Committee
   
2.7   Town Staff
   
2.8   Comprehensive Plan
   
2.9   Conflicts of Interest
2.1   REVIEW AND DECISION-MAKING BODIES
   The following bodies and town staff have powers and responsibilities in
administering and reviewing applications for development under this Ordinance:
   Town Council;
   Planning Board;
   Board of Adjustment;
   Historic District Commission;
   Technical Review Committee; and
   Planning Director.
   In addition to the decision making bodies listed in this section, other Town
Councils and commissions may review and comment on specific application types
during the review process as specified in the Town of Wallace’s Administrative
Manual, referred to from time to time in this Ordinance.
2.2   TOWN COUNCIL
   A.   POWERS AND DUTIES
   The Town Council (sometimes referred to in this Ordinance as “Town Board”)
has the following responsibilities in relation to this Ordinance:
      1.   Hear and decide applications for amendments to the text, schedules,
and map portions of this Ordinance
      2.   Hear and decide applications for Special Use Permits, as specified
in this Ordinance
      3.   Establish rules of procedure for the conduct of hearings and other
proceedings before the Town Council.
      4.   Make the necessary appointments to the Planning Board, Board of
Adjustment, and Historic District Commission.
      5.   Provide by appropriation, funds for the administration of this
Ordinance.
      6.   Such other actions as are, or may be, authorized by North Carolina
General Statutes Chapter 160D.
   B.   MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENT, AND TERMS OF OFFICE
   Membership, appointment, and terms of office for Town Council members are
established in the Wallace Code of Ordinances (the “Town Code”).
   C.   QUORUM AND NECESSARY VOTE
   Quorum and voting requirements are established in the Wallace Town Code.
   D.   RULES OF PROCEDURE
   Amendments to this Ordinance shall be processed in accord with the
provisions of Section
3.6, UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE, COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN, AND FUTURE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS, and with the Rules of Procedure of the Town
Council and of the Planning Board. The Town Council, in exercising this power,
are bound by the State's enabling legislation, the terms of this Ordinance, and
applicable court decisions in carrying out its legislative function.
2.3    PLANNING BOARD
   The Planning Board is hereby established in accordance with the North
Carolina General Statutes.
   A.   POWERS AND DUTIES
   The Planning Board shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   Make studies of Wallace and surrounding areas;
      2.   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of Wallace;
      3.   Propose and recommend plans for achieving these objectives;
      4.   Develop and recommend to the Town Council policies, ordinances,
administrative procedures, and other means for carrying out plans in a
coordinated and efficient manner;
      5.   Advise the Town Council concerning the use and amendment of means
for carrying out plans;
      6.   Exercise such functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans as may be assigned by this or other
ordinances of the Town;
      7.   Gather maps and aerial photographs of man made and natural physical
features of the area, statistics on past trends and present conditions with
respect to population, property values, the economic base of the area, land
use, and such other information as is important or likely to be important in
determining the amount, direction and kind of development to be expected in
Wallace and its various parts as background for its Comprehensive Plan and any
ordinances it may prepare;
      8.   Make, cause to be made, or obtain special studies on the location,
condition, and adequacy of specific facilities, which may include but are not
limited to studies of housing; commercial and industrial facilities; parks,
playgrounds, and recreational facilities; public and private utilities;
traffic, transportation, parking facilities; environmentally critical areas and
important natural resources. All Town officials shall, upon request, furnish to
the Planning Board such available records or information as it may require in
its work;
      9.   Approve, recommend, and maintain for adoption by the Town Council, a
Comprehensive Plan for the development of the Town, and amendments hereto;
      10.   Prepare and recommend to the Town Council new ordinances or
amendments to existing ordinances, including this Ordinance.
      11.   Make recommendations, upon referral, on all Special Use Permit
applications in accordance with Section
3.8, Special Use Permits, and upon all such other matters as the Town Council
may from time to time refer to it for a recommendation;
      13.   Make recommendations, upon referral, on all Conditional Rezoning
applications in accordance with Section
3.14, Conditional Rezoning, and upon all such other matters as the Town Council
may from time to time refer to it for a recommendation;
      14.   Engage in a program of information dissemination to the public and
officials;
      15.   Establish committees of Planning Board members to assist in its
functions;
      16.   Perform all necessary actions in support of its duties and powers.
      17.   Perform other related duties as may be assigned by this Ordinance
or other ordinances.
   B.   MEMBERSHIP
   The Town of Wallace Planning Board shall consist of at least nine (9)
members. Members shall serve without compensation, but they may be reimbursed
for incidental expenses incurred in connection with official duties.
   C.   APPOINTMENT
   Every member of the board shall be a resident of Duplin County. Five (5)
members shall be citizens and residents of the Town of Wallace and shall be
appointed by the Town Council; four (4) members shall be citizens and residents
of the extraterritorial jurisdiction and shall be appointed by the Duplin
County Board of Commissioners as set forth in N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160D-307.
   D.   TERMS OF OFFICE
   The tenure of office shall be three (3) years. Appointments to fill
vacancies shall be for the unexpired term. Further policies and procedures
about volunteer board appointments may be established by the Town Council in
the Town Code.
   E.   STAFF
   The Planning Director shall provide staff support to assist the Planning
Board in carrying out its duties.
   F.   MEETINGS
      1.   MEETING MINUTES
The Board shall maintain minutes of its meetings as a permanent public record.
Such minutes shall record the attendance of its members, its findings,
recommendations, and a summary of information, data, and testimony presented to
it.
      2.   OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and the Board shall cause
notices to be given as required by Article 33C, Chapter 143 of the North
Carolina General Statutes, as amended.
   G.   QUORUM AND NECESSARY VOTE
      1.   A quorum for conduct of business of the Board shall be a majority of
the appointed members.
      2.   An affirmative vote of the majority of Board members present and
constituting a quorum is required for all decisions of the Planning Board.
   H.   RULES OF PROCEDURE
The Board shall adopt Rules of Procedure and regulations for the conduct of its
affairs. Rules of Procedure shall be consistent with the procedural
requirements of this Ordinance and state law.
2.4   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby established in accordance with the North
Carolina General Statutes.
   A.   POWERS AND DUTIES
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
      1.   Hear, review, and decide appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Planning Director in the
performance of official duties.
      2.   Hear and decide applications for variances in accordance with
Section
3.9, VARIANCES. Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to authorize the
Board of Adjustment to permit a use in a district where that use is neither a
permitted use nor Special Use.
      3.   Pass upon, decide, or determine such other matters as may be
required by this Ordinance.
   B.   MEMBERSHIP
   The Wallace Board of Adjustment shall consist of five (5) members and the
Town at its discretion may appoint as many as two (2) alternate members.
Members shall serve without compensation, but they may be reimbursed for
incidental expenses incurred in connection with official duties.
   C.   APPOINTMENT
   Every member of the board shall be a resident of Duplin County. Three (3)
members and one alternate shall be citizens and residents of the Town of
Wallace and shall be appointed by the Town Council; two (2) members and one
alternate shall be citizens and residents of the territory surrounding the Town
as described in the North Carolina General Statutes, Chapter 160D, , Section
307 and 302, and shall be appointed by the Duplin County Board of
Commissioners. The members appointed as extraterritorial members shall have
equal rights, privileges, and duties as other board members, regardless of
whether the matters at issue arise within the town or the extraterritorial
area.
   D.   TERMS OF OFFICE
   The tenure of office shall be three (3) years. Appointments to fill
vacancies shall be for the unexpired term. Further policies and procedures
about volunteer board appointments may be established by the Town Council in
the Town Code.
   E.   STAFF
   The Planning Director shall provide staff support to assist the Board of
Adjustment in carrying out its duties.
   F.   MEETINGS
      1.   Meeting Minutes
   The Board shall maintain minutes of its meetings as a permanent public
record. Such minutes shall record the attendance of its members, its findings,
recommendations, and a summary of information, data, and testimony presented to
it.
      2.   Open to the Public
   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and the Board shall
cause notices to be given as required by Article 33C, Chapter 143 of the North
Carolina General Statutes, as amended.
   G.   QUORUM AND NECESSARY VOTE
      1.   A quorum of the Board of Adjustment, necessary to conduct any
business of the Board, shall consist of four (4) members.
       2.   A simple majority vote of those Board members present shall be
sufficient to conduct administrative business of the Board.
      3.   The concurring vote of four (4) of the members of the Board shall be
necessary to decide in favor of the applicant or appellant any matter upon
which the Board of Adjustment is required to pass by this Ordinance.
   H.   RULES OF PROCEDURE
   The Board shall adopt Rules of Procedure and regulations for the conduct of
its affairs. Rules of procedure shall be consistent with the procedural
requirements of this Ordinance and state law.
2.5   HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
   The Wallace Historic District Commission is hereby established in accordance
with N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160D-940 949.
   A.   POWERS AND DUTIES
      The Historic District Commission shall have the following powers:
      1.   Pass upon the appropriateness of the alteration, location or
relocation, or demolition of any building, structure, site, or appurtenant
feature within the Historic District; and issue a Certificate of
Appropriateness if approved. This shall include location of buildings and
structures on the site to the extent that location impacts the congruity with
the overall character of the District;
      2.   Pass upon the appropriateness of exterior architectural features,
including signs and other exterior features of any new building or structure to
be constructed within the Historic District. This shall include location of new
buildings, structures and signs on the site to the extent that location impacts
the congruity with the overall character of the district;
      3.   Cooperate with other Town Councils or commissions or with agencies
of the Town or other governmental units; offer or request assistance, aid,
guidance, or advice concerning matters under its purview or of mutual interest;
      4.   Recommend to the Planning Board districts or areas to be designated
by the Ordinance as "Historic Districts;"
      5.   Recommend to the Planning Board that designation of any district or
area as a Historic District be revoked or removed;
      6.   Give advice to property owners concerning the treatment of the
historical and visual characteristics of their properties located within the
District, such as color schemes, gardens, and landscaping features and minor
decorative elements;
      7.   Propose to the Planning Board changes to this or any related
Ordinance and to propose new Ordinances or laws relating to the Historic
District or relating to the total program for the development of the historical
resources of the Town and its environs;
      8.   Publish information about, or otherwise inform the owners of
property within the District, of any matters pertinent to its duties,
organization, procedures, responsibilities, functions, or requirements;
      9.   Undertake programs of information, research, or analysis relating to
any matters under its purview;
      10.    Report violations of this Ordinance, or related ordinances to the
local official responsible for enforcement;
      11.   Assist the Town staff in obtaining the services of private
consultants to aid in carrying out programs of research or analysis;
      12.   Recommend to the Town Council and the State of North Carolina
structures, sites, objects, or districts worthy of national, state, or local
recognition;
      13.   Initiate and participate in negotiations with owners and other
parties in an effort to find means of preserving structures or buildings
scheduled for demolition or sites scheduled for destruction;
      14.   Establish guidelines under which the Planning Director with
approval of the Commission Chairperson may approve minor modifications on
behalf of the Commission. No application shall be considered denied without
first being considered by the Commission;
      15.   Conduct public hearings on applications for Certificates of
Appropriateness where the Commission deems that such a hearing is necessary;
      16.   Review Permit applications for properties within defined Historic
Districts, and recommend approval or disapproval of these applications to the
permit issuing authority based on an evaluation of the proposed changes of the
application and the ability of the application to meet the standards for
evaluation for a Certificate of Approval;
      17.   Organize itself and conduct its business by whatever legal means it
deems proper;
      18.   Manage and maintain the Façade Grant Program
      19.   Exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as are
required elsewhere by this Ordinance, the General Statutes of North Carolina,
or by the Town Council.
   B.   MEMBERSHIP
   The Commission shall consist of eight (8) regular members. A majority of the
members should be qualified by special interest, knowledge, or training in such
fields as history, architecture, archaeology, or related fields. All members
shall serve without compensation, but they may be reimbursed for incidental
expenses incurred in connection with official duties.
   C.   APPOINTMENT
   Every member shall reside within the zoning jurisdiction of the Town of
Wallace and shall be appointed by the Town Council.
   D.   TERMS OF OFFICE
   The tenure of office shall be four (4) years. Appointments to fill vacancies
shall be for the unexpired term.
   E.   STAFF
   The Planning Director shall provide staff support to assist the Historic
District Commission in carrying out its duties.
   F.   MEETINGS
      1.   MEETING MINUTES
      The Commission shall maintain minutes of its meetings as a permanent
public record. Such minutes shall record the attendance of its members, its
findings, recommendations, and a summary of information, data, and testimony
presented to it.
      2.   OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
      All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public and the Board
shall cause notices to be given as required by Article 33C, Chapter 143 of the
North Carolina General Statutes, as amended.
   G.   QUORUM AND NECESSARY VOTE
      1.   A quorum of the Commission necessary to conduct any business shall
consist of five (5) members.
      2.   The concurring vote of a majority of the quorum present of the
members of the Commission shall be necessary in order to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass by this Ordinance.
   H.   RULES OF PROCEDURE
   The Commission shall adopt Rules of Procedure and regulations for the
conduct of its affairs. Rules of procedure shall be consistent with the
procedural requirements of this Ordinance and state law.
2.6   TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE
   The Technical Review Committee is hereby established.
   A.   POWERS AND DUTIES
   The Technical Review Committee is authorized and directed to review and
approve, conditionally approve or deny applications for Site Plan Approval
pursuant to Section
3.12, SITE PLAN REVIEW, of this Ordinance, and to perform such other duties as
may from time to time be delegated to it by the Town Council. In addition, the
Technical Review Committee may also undertake the following duties:
      1.   Conduct pre application conferences;
      2.   Provide expertise and assistance to the Planning Director in
compiling and maintaining an Administrative Manual and in establishing
application content requirements and a submission schedule for review of
applications and appeals; and
      3.   Provide expertise and technical assistance to the Town’s other
decision making bodies, upon request.
   B.   MEMBERSHIP
   The Technical Review Committee shall consist of at least three (3) members –
the Planning Director, the Fire Marshal, the Public Works Director, or their
designees, and others as may be appointed by the Town Manager.
   C.   RULES OF PROCEDURE
   The Committee shall conduct its affairs consistent with the procedures in
the Administrative Manual. Their actions shall be consistent with the
procedural requirements of this Ordinance and state law.
   D.   APPEALS
   Appeals from decisions of the Technical Review Committee shall be to the
Board of Adjustment. The procedures for appeals to the Board of Adjustment
established by Section
3.10, APPEAL, of this Ordinance shall apply to appeals from determinations made
by the Technical Review Committee.
2.7   TOWN STAFF
   A.   PLANNING DIRECTOR
   The provisions of this Ordinance shall be administered by the Planning
Director, who shall be hired by the Town Manager. Unless specified by the
context, the term “Planning Director” also includes members of the Planning
Department staff to whom some planning responsibilities may be assigned from
time to time. The “Planning Director” is sometimes referred to in this
Ordinance as the “Zoning Officer.”
      1.   POWERS AND DUTIES
      The Planning Director has the following responsibilities in relation to
this Ordinance:
         (a)   Administer and enforce this Ordinance.
            (b)   Issue required permits and certificates as authorized by this
Ordinance, including attaching conditions as specified by the approval
authority or as needed to insure compliance with provisions of this Ordinance
and the Administrative Manual.
         (c)   Conduct inspections of buildings or premises and perform other
procedures necessary to carry out the enforcement of this Ordinance. In
connection with the enforcement of this Ordinance, the Planning Director shall
make all necessary determinations and interpretations as required by this
Ordinance. Persons aggrieved by a decision or a determination made by the
Planning Director may appeal that action to the Board of Adjustment.
         (d)   Issue a Stop Work Order if a project is found to be under
construction without a Zoning Compliance Permit, if a Zoning Compliance Permit
is revoked or if work being undertaken is contrary to this Ordinance or any
permit issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
         (e)   Revoke a Zoning Compliance Permit if it is found to have been
issued in violation of any provisions of this Ordinance, or if the conditions
as stated on the permit are not carried out.
         (f)   Provide administrative, technical, and professional support to
the Town Council, Planning Board, Board of Adjustment, Historic District
Commission and any advisory committee established hereunder.
         (g)   Prepare written staff reports and recommendations on all
proposed amendments to this Ordinance, applications for approval of Special
Uses, applications for certificates of appropriateness, applications for
variances, and appeals from orders, decisions, determinations, and requirements
made in enforcing this Ordinance.
         (h)   Act as liaison with other Town departments, representatives of
other local governmental units, of the State of North Carolina and of the
United States.
         (i)   Maintain data, maps, and other information necessary to
discharge his/her responsibilities.
         (j)   Provide appropriate services to encourage the participation of
citizens of Wallace in the discharge of his/her responsibilities.
         (k)   Is the Subdivision Administrator and carries out all required
duties as described.
         (l)   Is the Code Enforcement Officer and carries out all required
duties as described.
         (m)   Perform such other duties as may be directed by the Town Council
and/or the Town Manager.
2.8   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   A.   INTENT
   The Comprehensive Plan and any ordinances or other measures to effectuate it
shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing coordinated
and harmonious development of the Town which will, in accordance with present
and future needs, best promote health, safety, and the general welfare, as well
as efficiency in the process of development; including, among other things,
adequate provisions for transportation and traffic, the promotion of safety
from fire and other dangers, adequate provision of light and air, the promotion
of healthful and convenient distribution of population, the promotion of public
funds, adequate provision of public utilities, services, and other public
requirements, and conservation of significant natural and man made resources
within the Town and its jurisdiction.
   The Comprehensive Plan shall constitute the Town Council's recommendation
for the physical development of that portion of the County under Town
jurisdiction. The recommendations included in the plan shall address in whole
or part such things as the goals, policies, and guidelines intended to direct
the present and future physical, social, and economic development that occurs
within the Town’s planning jurisdiction, and shall include a unified physical
design for the public and private development of land and water. All
applications for development approval shall be considered in relation to, and
for conformity with, the Comprehensive Plan.
   In adopting or amending the Comprehensive Plan, the Board shall ever be
mindful of the need to balance the public interest with the needs of private
interests, particularly in the conservation of surface and underground water
resources, soil resources, and natural growth resources of the Town and the
efficient use of the renewable and non renewable sources of energy.
   B.   ELEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   The Comprehensive Plan may include a land use plan, maps, plats, charts,
small area plans, task force reports, or other official statements, reports, or
plans that are officially approved by resolution of the Town Council, and are
part of the underlying policy of the Town.
   C.   PREPARATION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   Upon request by the Town Council, the Planning Board has the authority to
initiate and oversee the process for developing and amending the Town’s
Comprehensive Plan.
   D.   ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   The Town Council, upon receipt of a recommended Comprehensive Plan and/or
portions thereof from the Planning Board, shall consider such recommendations
and may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the recommended
Comprehensive Plan or amendments thereto.
   Prior to the adoption or amendment of the Comprehensive Plan, the Town
Council shall hold a public hearing thereon. Notice of the public hearing shall
be given by publishing said notice at least twice in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Town, stating the time and place of such hearing, and the
substance of the proposed plan or amendment. This notice shall appear in said
newspaper for two (2) consecutive weeks with the first notice appearing not
less than ten (10) days nor more than twenty five (25) days before the date set
for the public hearing. Proposed amendments to the adopted Comprehensive Plan
shall follow the process outlined in Section
3.6, UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE, COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN, AND
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS. This ordinance shall be officially known as the
“Unified Development Ordinance of the Town of Wallace, North Carolina” and may
be referred to as the “Unified Development Ordinance” or “this ordinance” or
the “UDO.”
2.9   CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
   A.   TOWN COUNCIL
   Members of the Town Council must act in the public interest and not to
advance their own financial interests. A member of the elected or appointed
Board, shall not vote on any legislative decision regarding a development
regulation adopted pursuant to this UDO where the outcome of the matter being
considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily
identifiable financial impact on the member. A member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   B.   APPOINTED BOARDS
   Members of appointed boards shall not vote on any advisory or legislative
decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to this UDO where
the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the member.
An appointed board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the
landowner of the property subject to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a
text amendment is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship.
   C.   QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISIONS
   A member of any board exercising quasi-judicial functions pursuant to this
UDO shall not participate in or vote on any quasi-judicial matter in a manner
that would violate affected persons' constitutional rights to an impartial
decision maker. Impermissible violations of due process include, but are not
limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is
not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte communications, a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship with an affected
person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
   D.   ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
   No staff member shall make a final decision on an administrative decision
required by this UDO if the outcome of that decision would have a direct,
substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the staff member or
if the applicant or other person subject to that decision is a person with whom
the staff member has a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of interest under this section,
the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor of the staff person or such
other staff person as may be designated by the development regulation or other
ordinance. No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this UDO unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with the town to provide staff support shall engage in any work
that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of the town,
as determined by the Town Council.
Chapter 3 – Administrative Procedures
Table of Contents
   
3.1   Administrative Manual
   
3.2   Common Review Procedures
   
3.3   Comprehensive Review of Chapter
   
3.4   Typographical Errors
   
3.5   Creation of New Lots/Division of Land
   
3.6   UDO, Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and Comprehensive Plan Amendments
   
3.7   RESERVED
   
3.8   Special Use Permit
   
3.9   Variance
   
3.10   Appeal
   
3.11   Certificate of Appropriateness
   
3.12   Site Plan Review
   
3.13   Zoning Compliance Permit
   
3.14   Conditional Rezoning
   
3.15   Annexation
3.1   ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL
   The Town of Wallace’s Administrative Manual, provides information relevant
to the day-to-day use of this Ordinance. The Manual provides guidance in the
use of this Ordinance, consolidates information on the development review
processes, and explains review procedures and requirements. References to the
Administrative Manual are made in this Ordinance. This Manual is not an
ordinance and can be updated by staff on an as needed basis, including updating
fees when they are changed by the Town Council or changing application
schedules and deadlines as workloads change. It is intended to supplement, and
not as a substitute for, this Ordinance.
3.2   COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES
   A.   COMPLETE APPLICATIONS
   All applications for any approval required by this Ordinance must be
complete. Planning Staff will establish application deadlines to allow time to
review applications for completeness before continuing the application process.
Applicants who submit incomplete applications will receive a written notice
stating the information needed to complete the application and a date by which
the information must be submitted to maintain the review schedule. No
application will be considered complete until all fees required by the Town’s
fee schedule have been paid in full. Application Packets including application
deadlines, submittal requirements, and application forms can be found in the
Administrative Manual.
      1.   COMPLETENESS REVIEW
      Upon receipt of an application, the Planning Director shall determine if
the application is complete. A complete application is one that:
         (a)    Contains all information and materials established by the
Planning Director as required for submittal of the particular type of
application;
         (b)    Is in the form established by the Planning Director as required
for submittal of the particular type of application;
         (c)    Includes information in sufficient detail to evaluate the
application to determine whether it complies with the appropriate substantive
standards of this Ordinance; and
         (d) Is accompanied by the fee established for the particular type of
application.
   B.   EXPEDITIOUS REVIEW
   Town shall make every reasonable effort to process applications
expeditiously, consistent with the need to ensure that all development conforms
to the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   FEES
   Filing fees for all development approvals pursuant to this ordinance shall
be established by the Fee Schedule adopted by the Town Council. The fee
schedule can be found in the Administrative Manual.
   D.   AUTHORITY TO FILE
   Applications for any approval or permit required by this Ordinance must be
signed by the property owner, a designated owner’s agent, or a contract
purchaser of a property with authorization of the property owner. Written proof
of authority must be submitted with every application. Applications for
development approvals may be made by the landowner, a lessee or person holding
an option or contract to purchase or lease land, or an authorized agent of the
landowner. An easement holder may also apply for development approval for such
development as is authorized by the easement. Unless provided otherwise by law,
all rights, privileges, benefits, burdens, and obligations created by
development approvals made pursuant to this UDO attach to and run with the
land.
3.3   COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF CHAPTER
   The Planning Board shall, from time to time, but not less frequently than
every five (5) years, examine the provisions of this Ordinance and the location
of Zoning District boundary lines, and shall submit a report to the Town
Council recommending changes and amendments, if any, which are desirable in the
interest of public health, safety, and general welfare, mindful of the intent
expressed in Section
1.4, GENERAL PURPOSE AND INTENT.
3.4   TYPOGRAPHICAL ERRORS
   Typographical errors, spelling changes, numerical reference errors, errors
in section or page numbering or other purely non-substantive editorial changes
may be corrected by the Planning Director without formal adoption by the Town
Council provided that such corrections do not change the meaning of the
Ordinance. Any correction made pursuant to this section shall be reported in
writing to the Town Council and made a part of the Board’s regular meeting
minutes.
3.5   CREATION OF NEW LOTS/DIVISION OF LAND
   A.   REVIEW REQUIRED
   Subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance, no land within the Town
of Wallace planning jurisdiction shall be subdivided, or re-subdivided and
offered for sale, gifted, exchanged, or in any other way conveyed until a plat
thereof has been approved as herein provided. No plat shall be recorded by the
Duplin County Register of Deeds until this approval is entered in writing on
the face of the plat as herein provided.
   B.   THE REVIEW REQUIRED IS DETERMINED BY THE NUMBER OF NEW LOTS TO BE
CREATED AS FOLLOWS:
   1.   EXEMPT PLATS: Staff review, must meet standards in Section
3.5(C), EXEMPT PLATS below.
      2.   MINOR SUBDIVISIONS: Staff review to create 4 or fewer lots.
      3.   MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS: Special Use Permit review by Planning and Town
Councils to create 5 or more lots.
      4.   CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS: Special Use Permit review by Planning and
Town Councils to create 20 or more lots, but less than 100 lots with reduced
lot sizes and additional open space
   C.   EXEMPT PLATS
      1.   Property owners or their authorized agents must present a paper or
recordable map to the Planning Department for determination of whether the
action created by the recording of the map meets the Ordinance standards to be
exempt.
      2.   If the proposal meets the exemptions listed in this Ordinance or in
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160D-802, the Planning Director shall sign an exemption note
on the face of the recordable map before it is recorded.
   3.   In addition to the divisions of land identified in N.C. Gen. Stat. §
160D-802(a)(1) through (5), the following divisions of land shall not be
included within the definition of the term “subdivision” and shall not be
subject to this Ordinance: (1) the division of land for the purpose of creating
a lot for use as a site for a utility pump station; (2) the recordation of a
plot of lots created by deeds recorded in the Duplin County Registry prior to
March 13, 1978; (3) the creation of a lot to be conveyed to the Town or to a
non-profit entity for the purpose of creating public parks or public open
space, provided that the plat and the deed creating such parcel shall
specifically state that the parcel created may not be used for any other
purpose, (4) the division of land owned by a governmental entity to facilitate
the conveyance of a portion of said land to another governmental entity for
governmental or public use, and (5) the recordation of a plat consistent with
Section
7.3(C), MULTIPLE DETACHED DWELLINGS ON A SINGLE PARCEL.
      4.   If the proposal does not meet the exemptions, the Planning Director
shall return the unsigned map to the property owner or authorized agent with a
written description of why the map does not qualify to be exempt.
   D.   MINOR SUBDIVISION
   Property owners or agents must present a paper map to the Planning
Department to review any division of land into 4 or fewer lots from a single
tract of land in any five (5) year period. Such a division may only be approved
by staff if no new public road is necessary to create the lots. If a new public
road is proposed as part of the project, the Planning Director shall refer the
request to the Technical Review Committee (TRC) for final review and approval.
If no public or private road right of way or construction is part of the
proposal, the Planning Director may approve the minor subdivision by signing
the approval certificate on the recordable map.
   The application will be processed according to the procedure details in
Section
5.2(RR), SUBDIVISIONS, MINOR.
   Only a final plat for recordation, to be approved by the Planning Director,
shall be required for the division of one existing parcel of land under single
ownership that is not exempt per G.S. 160D-802(a); (1) where no part of the
tract or parcel to be divided has been divided in the 10 years prior to the
proposed division; (2) the entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is
greater than 5 acres; (3) after division, no more than three lots result from
the division and all resultant lots comply with all lot dimension size
requirements of the applicable zoning district and the use of the lots is in
conformity with the applicable zoning district; and (4) a permanent means of
ingress and egress is recorded for each.
   E.    MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS
   Divisions of land resulting in the creation of five (5) or more new lots
from a single tract of land in any five (5) year period shall require a Special
Use Permit, with review criteria as set forth in Section
5.2(QQ), SUBDIVISIONS, MAJOR.
      1.   SKETCH PLAN
      Prior to submitting a Special Use Permit application, the applicant shall
submit a sketch design plan, the elements of which are discussed in the
Administrative Manual. In reviewing the proposal the Planning Department may
consider existing development in the area, compatibility with the comprehensive
plan for the Town, and the suitability of the land to avoid the unnecessary
expense of redesigning unacceptable subdivision proposals. The Planning
Department shall make available to the applicant maps, studies, and reports
which indicate land suitability including maps of flood prone areas, soil,
conditions, location of historic sites and unique natural areas.
      2.   SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED
      The preliminary plan will be processed according to the Special Use
Permit procedure and details found in Section
3.8.
   F.   CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS (SECTION
10.2 FOR DEFINITION)
   Divisions of land into twenty (20) or more new lots from a single tract of
land in any five (5) year period, with special features as set forth in Section
5.2(PP) for Conservation Subdivisions, shall require a Special Use Permit.
      1.   SKETCH PLAN
      Prior to submitting a preliminary plat, the applicant shall submit to a
sketch design plan, the elements of which are discussed in the Administrative
Manual. In reviewing the proposal, the Planning Department may consider
existing development in the area, compatibility with the comprehensive plan for
the Town, and the suitability of the land to avoid the unnecessary expense of
redesigning unacceptable subdivision proposals. The Planning Department shall
make available to the applicant maps, studies, and reports which indicate land
suitability including maps of flood prone areas, soil, conditions, location of
historic sites and unique natural areas.
      2.   SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED
      The preliminary plan will be processed according to the Special Use
Permit procedure and details found in Section
3.8.
3.6   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE, COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN, AND
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS
   A.    INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to set forth the procedures for amending
this Ordinance, including the Official Zoning Map, as well as the Comprehensive
Land Use Plan. Amendments shall be made by formal action of the Town Council.
All proposed amendments shall be referred to the Planning Board for its
consideration and recommendation. In no case shall final action be taken to
amend this Ordinance until a duly advertised public hearing is held.
   B.   GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT
   Before amending this Ordinance or the Official Zoning Map, the Town Council
must find, after conducting the process below, that the request is not
inconsistent with the adopted Comprehensive Plan for the Town of Wallace.
   Amending the Official Zoning Map (Rezoning) is a matter committed to the
legislative discretion of the Town Council. In determining whether to adopt a
proposed amendment, the Town Council shall consider and weigh the relevance of
the following factors:
      1.   The extent to which the proposed amendment is consistent with all
applicable Town-adopted plans;
      2.   The extent to which there are changed conditions that require an
amendment;
      3.   The extent to which the proposed amendment addresses a demonstrated
community need;
      4.   The extent to which the proposed amendment is compatible with
existing and proposed uses surrounding the subject land, and is the appropriate
zoning district for the land;
      5.   The extent to which the proposed amendment would result in a logical
and orderly development pattern, or deviate from logical and orderly
development patterns;
      6.   The extent to which the proposed amendment would encourage premature
development;
      7.   The extent to which the proposed amendment would result in strip or
ribbon commercial development;
      8.   The extent to which the proposed amendment would result in the
creation of an isolated zoning district unrelated to or incompatible with
adjacent and surrounding zoning districts;
      9.   The extent to which the proposed amendment would result in
significant adverse impacts on the property values of surrounding lands; and
      10.   The extent to which the proposed amendment would result in
significantly adverse environmental impacts , including but not limited to
water, air, noise, stormwater management, wildlife, vegetation, wetlands, and
the natural functioning of the environment.
   C.   AUTHORITY TO APPLY
      1.   AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
      Subject to the limitations of the foregoing statement of intent, an
amendment to this Ordinance, including the Official Zoning Map, may be
initiated by:
         (a)   The Town Council on its own motion;
         (b)   The Planning Board;
         (c)   The Board of Adjustment;
         (d)   Planning Director
         (e)    Any person or agency
      2.   THIRD PARTY AMENDMENTS
      No amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map that down-zones
property shall be initiated nor is it enforceable without the written consent
of all property owners whose property is the subject of the down-zoning
amendment, unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the Town. For
purposes of this section, "down-zoning" means a zoning amendment that affects
an area of land in one of the following ways by decreasing the development
density of the land to be less dense than was allowed under its previous usage
or by reducing the permitted uses of the land to fewer uses than were allowed
under its previous usage.
      3.   AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
      Any property owner or other person or entity establishing a sufficient
legal interest in a parcel may apply to amend the Comprehensive Land Use Plan
designation on the parcel. Any advisory board of the town may request the
Planning Board or Town Council to sponsor an amendment to the Comprehensive
Land Use Plan related to the duties and authority of the advisory board.
   D.   PRE-APPLICATION
   Applicants seeking to amend the Official Zoning Map shall, before submitting
an application for a Zoning Map Amendment, participate in a pre-application
meeting with the Planning Director to ensure the application does not require
additional, parallel reviews for Land Use Plan amendments.
   E.   APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
   Applicants shall refer to the Administrative Manual for the requirements for
a complete application to amend this Ordinance, the Official Zoning Map, the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan, or the Comprehensive Plan.
   F.   STAFF REVIEW
   Upon receipt of an application to amend this Ordinance, the Official Zoning
Map, the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, or the Comprehensive Plan, the Planning
Director shall first determine if the application is complete (including the
submission of the required application fee).
   Applications which are not complete, or which otherwise do not comply with
the provisions of this Ordinance, shall not be accepted by the Planning
Director, but shall be returned to the applicant with a notation by the
Planning Director of the deficiencies in the application. Once the application
is deemed complete, it will be placed on the next available public hearing
agenda.
   G.   PLANNING BOARD RECOMMENDATION
   The Planning Board shall within thirty (30) days after notification of an
application hold a meeting to discuss, prepare, and submit for the Town Council
a recommendation concerning the application. The Planning Board shall advise
and comment on whether the proposed text amendment or map amendment is
consistent with the adopted comprehensive plan and any other applicable
officially adopted plans. The Planning Board shall provide a written
recommendation to the Town Council that addresses plan consistency and other
matters as deemed appropriate by the Planning Board, but a comment by the
Planning Board that a proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive
plan shall not preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by
the Town Council. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a large-scale rezoning
under G.S. 160D-602(b), the Planning Board statement describing plan
consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and
policies in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the recommendation
made.
   H.   PUBLIC HEARING
   The Town Council shall hear applications for amendments to these documents
at a Public Hearing. The Town Council, in its discretion, shall schedule the
date and time for public hearings on applications.
      1.   NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
      All notices required under this Ordinance shall comply with the North
Carolina General Statutes. In addition, all notices shall, unless otherwise
specified in this Ordinance, comply with the following.
         (a)   Published Notice
         Notice of each public hearing shall be given by publishing said notice
at least twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the Town, stating the
time and place of such hearing and the substance of the proposed amendment, in
accordance with the provisions of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160D-601. This notice shall
appear in said newspaper for two (2) successive weeks prior to the public
hearing, the first publication not less than ten (10) days nor more than
twenty-five (25) days prior to the hearing.
         (b)    Mailed Notice
         In the case of a proposed Zoning Map amendment, in addition to the
public notice requirement established in Section
3.6(G)(1)(a) above, the Planning Director shall give notice by first class mail
to owner of the subject property and to the owners of all parcels at the last
addresses listed for such owners on the county tax abstracts and any part of
which lies within five hundred (500) feet of the property boundaries of the
subject property. Such notice shall include the owners of affected parcels of
land and the owners of all parcels of land abutting that parcel of land. For
the purpose of this section, properties are abutting even if separated by a
street, railroad, or other transportation corridor. The Planning Director shall
certify to the Town Council that such notice was given. This notice must be
deposited in the mail at least 10 but not more than 25 days prior to the date
of the hearing.
         (c)    Posted Notice
         In the case of a proposed Zoning Map amendment, the Planning Director
shall post notice on the subject property(ies) notice of the time, date, and
location of the public hearing, and a summary of the requested amendment in a
form established by the Planning Director, at least ten (10) but not more than
25 days before the date fixed for public hearing. In computing such period, the
day of posting shall not be counted, but the day of the hearing shall be
counted. The posted notice shall remain in place until after a final decision
is rendered on the application. The posted notice shall be placed in a manner
to provide visibility from the public right-of-way. The applicant shall ensure
that the posted notice is maintained on the land until completion of the public
hearing on the application.
      2.   POST-HEARING PROCESS
      The public hearing on an amendment to this Ordinance, the Zoning Map, or
the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, is formally closed by a motion and vote of the
Council members present at the hearing.
   I.   TOWN COUNCIL ACTION
   The Town Council shall not take action on the proposed amendment until
thirty (30) days after the date the Planning Board was notified of the
application or until the Planning Board makes its recommendation, whichever
comes first. Prior to adopting or rejecting any zoning text or map amendment,
the Town Council shall adopt a statement describing whether the action is
consistent with the adopted comprehensive plan and any other applicable
officially adopted plans and explaining why the Council considers the action
taken to be reasonable and in the public interest. The requirement for a plan
consistency statement may also be met by a clear indication in the minutes of
the Town Council meeting that at the time of action on the amendment the Town
Council was aware of and considered the Planning Board's recommendations and
any relevant portions of an adopted comprehensive plan.
   If a zoning map amendment is adopted and the action was deemed inconsistent
with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the effect of also
amending any future land-use map in the approved plan, and no additional
request or application for a plan amendment shall be required. A plan amendment
and a zoning amendment may be considered concurrently. The plan consistency
statement is not subject to judicial review. If a zoning map amendment
qualifies as a large-scale rezoning under G.S. 160D-602(b), the Town Council
statement describing plan consistency may address the overall rezoning and
describe how the analysis and policies in the relevant adopted plans were
considered in the action taken.
   When adopting or rejecting any petition for a zoning map amendment, a
statement analyzing the reasonableness of the proposed rezoning shall be
approved by the Town Council. This statement of reasonableness may consider,
among other factors, (i) the size, physical conditions, and other attributes of
the area proposed to be rezoned, (ii) the benefits and detriments to the
landowners, the neighbors, and the surrounding community, (iii) the
relationship between the current actual and permissible development on the
tract and adjoining areas and the development that would be permissible under
the proposed amendment; (iv) why the action taken is in the public interest;
and (v) any changed conditions warranting the amendment. If a zoning map
amendment qualifies as a large-scale rezoning under G.S. 160D-602(b), the Town
Council statement on reasonableness may address the overall rezoning. The
statement of reasonableness and the plan consistency statement required by this
section may be approved as a single statement.
   J.   FORMALIZING THE OUTCOME
   The Town Council’s action on a proposed amendment shall be in the form of an
ordinance amending the applicable document. An amendment is effective
immediately, unless some other effective date is specified in the amending
ordinance.
   The applicant shall receive written notice of the Town Council’s decision on
the application, including a copy of the Ordinance adopted by the Town Council
if the application is approved, within 30 days of the effective date of the
ordinance.
   K.   APPEAL
   Text and map amendments are legislative actions of the Town Council. Any
person seeking to challenge the validity of any amendment to this Ordinance may
challenge such amendment by filing an appropriate action in the Duplin County
Superior Court within the time established by N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160D-1405.
   L.   EFFECT OF DENIAL OR WITHDRAWAL
   An applicant may withdraw his or her application for an amendment at any
time by written notice to the Planning Director. When the Town Council shall
have acted upon an application or the application shall have been withdrawn
after the first notice of the public hearing thereon, the Town shall not accept
another application for the same or similar text or Official Zoning Map
amendment, affecting the same property or a portion of it, until the expiration
of a one (1) year period, extending from the date of action or withdrawal. The
Town Council may on its own motion, however, initiate an amendment of this
nature prior to the expiration of the one (1) year period.
   M.   VESTING
   Amendments to this Ordinance, the Zoning Map, or the Comprehensive Land Use
Plan do not qualify as site specific vesting plans and do not establish
statutory vested rights.
   N.    DEVIATIONS, MODIFICATIONS, REVOCATION, EXPIRATION
   Text and map amendments enacted by the Town Council are legislative actions
and are not subject to deviations, modifications, revocation, or expiration
except through specific action to further amend these documents.
3.7   RESERVED
3.8   SPECIAL USE PERMIT
   A.   INTENT
   Special Uses because of their inherent nature, extent of development, or
external effects, require special care in the control of their location, design
and methods of operation, in order to insure protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. It is the intent of this section to set forth the
information to be submitted with applications for Special Use Permits and to
state the standards by which each application shall be judged.
   The criteria and procedures established in this section are intended to
ensure that the design and construction of site elements include appropriate
consideration of the relationship and balance among site elements, the
relationship of the proposed development to natural features and neighboring
developments, access and circulation systems, mitigation of erosion and
sedimentation, mitigation of stormwater drainage and flooding, arrangement and
orientation of buildings and amenities in relation to each other and to
neighboring development and streets, and mitigation of traffic impacts.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   An application for a Special Use Permit (SUP) may be submitted when the use
is designated Special Use in the Permitted Use Table.
   C.   GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT
   The Town Council shall not approve an application for a Special Use permit
unless it makes each of the following findings concerning the proposed special
use:
      1.   That the use or development is located, designed, and proposed to be
operated so as to maintain the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      2.   That the use or development complies with all required regulations
and standards of this Ordinance, including all applicable provisions of
Chapters
4,
5 and
6 and all applicable regulations;
      3.   That the use or development is located, designed, and proposed to be
operated so as to maintain or enhance the value of contiguous property, or that
the use or development is a public necessity; and
      4.   That the use or development confirms with the general plans for the
physical development of the Town as embodied in the Town’s Comprehensive Plan.
   D.   APPLYING THE ORDINANCE TO DETERMINE COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS TO MAKE
FINDINGS OF FACT
      1.   All of the requirements in this ordinance apply to applications for
Special Use Permits.
   2.   Certain uses require specialized information, which are contained in
Section 5, USE STANDARDS. To the extent that any person applies for a Special
Use Permit not specifically listed in Section 5, the requirements in Section
5.2(VV),USE REQUIRING SPECIAL USE PERMITS BASED ON THE SIZE, INTENSITY, OR
LOCATION OF THE USE shall apply.
   3.   As Special Uses may have unique characteristics that may not be
adequately addressed with development standards for routine uses, an applicant
may request a waiver to any provision in Section 6 (excluding Section
6.20, STORMWATER ORDINANCE), together with an explanation of why the waiver or
modification is appropriate, including testimony as to why the proposed
solution included in the application is equal or superior to the result
achieved through the strict application of the provisions in Section 6. The
Planning Director, Technical Review Committee, and Planning Board may offer
recommendations to the Town Council regarding any requested waiver or
modification and the sufficiency of the evidence in support of granting the
waiver or modification. Any approval of a Special Use Permit shall specifically
detail any and all waiver(s) or modification(s) granted to the applicant.
   E.   SPECIALIZED INFORMATION AND FINDINGS REQUIRED FOR ALL SPECIAL USE
PERMITS
      1.   The Town of Wallace recognizes that the Special Use Permit process
affords the town and applicant a unique opportunity to cooperate and encourage
development that is mutually beneficial. The Town requires applicants for
Special Use Permits to provide additional information and amenities within
their projects to offset the possible waiver of strict ordinance compliance and
to recognize the impacts of sizable or unique developments can have on quality
of life for Wallace residents. All applicants for Special Use Permits shall
include information about the following in their submittals and shall address
how their proposal satisfies each of the findings of fact in Section
3.8(C), GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT:
      2.   Applicants shall indicate a preferred green building or sustainable
building rating system for their project and indicate the performance level
they intend to meet for the development site or structures in their application
materials.
      3.   Applicants shall indicate their expected water use for the daily
operations of their site upon completion. Projects will be required to
demonstrate water saving or reuse measures that will be employed. (show
baseline & their use)
      4.   Applicants proposing 20 or more dwelling units shall indicate the
provisions they intend to make in support of maintaining the diversity of
housing types and housing price points in Wallace.
   E.   PROCEDURE
      1.   AUTHORITY TO APPLY
      Applications for special use permits may be made by the owner of the
property or the owners authorized representative (including but not limited to
a contract purchaser of the property, provided that such contract purchaser or
other authorized representative produces evidence of authority to proceed with
the application)
      2.   PRE-APPLICATION
      Applicants are encouraged to meet with Planning Director staff before
filing a Special Use Permit application to review specific permit and
application requirements.
      3.   APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
      Special Use Permit applications shall be filed with the Planning
Director.
      The Planning Director shall prescribe the form(s) on which applications
are made. Application requirements and necessary submittals are set forth in
the Administrative Manual.
      4.   STAFF REVIEW
      Upon receipt of a Special Use Permit application, the Planning Director
shall first determine whether the application is complete, including the
payment of all required application fees. If the Planning Director determines
that the application is not complete, it shall notify the applicant in writing
of the reasons for such determination. Once a complete application has been
received, the Planning Director shall analyze the application in conjunction
with qualified representatives of the Town and such other agencies or officials
as may be appropriate, to determine conformity with the Land Use Plan and the
Comprehensive Plan, the provisions of this Ordinance, the provisions of any
Master Plan approved for the property, and other regulations applicable in the
case.
      In preparing its analysis, the Planning Director shall refer a Special
Use Permit application to the next available Technical Review Committee meeting
to facilitate the outside agency review and collection of comments.
   F.   BURDEN OF PRESENTING EVIDENCE
   The burden of presenting a complete application shall at all times be upon
the applicant. However, unless the Planning Director informs the applicant at
or before the hearing on the application that, and in what way, the application
is incomplete, and offers the applicant an opportunity to complete the
application, the application shall be presumed to be complete.
   Once a completed application has been submitted, the burden of presenting
evidence to the permit-issuing board sufficient to allow the permit-issuing
board to conclude that the application should be denied for any reasons stated
in Section
3.8(C), GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT, shall be upon the party or parties
urging this position, unless the information presented by the applicant in his
application and at the public hearing is sufficient to justify a reasonable
conclusion that a reason exists to so deny the application.
   The burden of persuasion on the issue of whether the development, if
completed as proposed, will comply with the requirements of this chapter
remains at all times on the applicant. The burden of persuasion on the issue of
whether the application should be turned down for any other reasons set for in
Section
3.8(C), GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT, rests on the party or parties
urging the requested permit should be denied.
   G.   TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE
   The Technical Review Committee shall review all applications for Special Use
Permits, and make a recommendation on each such application, which
recommendation may include recommended conditions of approval.
   H.   PLANNING BOARD REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION
   The Planning Board shall within thirty (30) days after notification of an
application hold a meeting to discuss, prepare, and submit for the Town Council
a recommendation concerning the application.
   I.   QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC HEARING
   After notice in accordance with Section
3.8(I)(1), NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING, is given the Town Council shall hold a
public hearing on the application. The Town Council, in its discretion,
schedules the date and time for a public hearing for a Special Use Permit
application.
   The public hearing on a Special Use Permit application shall be a quasi-
judicial hearing open to the public. At the hearing, the applicant and all
interested persons shall be given the opportunity to present evidence and
arguments and to ask questions. Reasonable and equitable limitations may be
placed on the presentation of evidence and arguments, and the cross-examination
of witnesses, so that the application may be heard without undue delay. All
persons who intend to present evidence at the public hearing shall be sworn.
   When the applicant presents substantial and competent evidence that the
proposed development will satisfy the general standards established by Section
3.8(C), GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT, above and will conform to all
specific provisions applicable to that particular special use as established by
this Ordinance, persons opposed to the application shall have the burden of
presenting substantial and competent evidence contrary to the applicant's
evidence or substantial and competent evidence that the proposed development
will violate one or more of the general standards set forth in Section
3.8(C), GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT, or any of the specific standards
for the particular special use established by this Ordinance. If no such
evidence is submitted, the applicant shall be granted the permit. If
substantial and competent evidence in opposition to the application is
submitted, the applicant shall have the burden of overcoming that evidence with
further evidence of his/her own.
   A record of the proceedings of the hearing shall be made and shall include
all application materials and documentary evidence presented at the hearing.
      1.   NOTICE OF QUASI-JUDUCIAL PUBLIC HEARING
      Notice of quasi-judicial public hearings conducted pursuant to this UDO
shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal, application, or request
is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the property that is the subject
of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the hearing; to the owners of all
parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the hearing.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the local government may rely on
the county tax listing to determine owners of property entitled to mailed
notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at least 10 days, but not more
than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Written notice shall also be
sent to all adjacent property owners not less than ten (10) days before the
hearing date. Adjacent property owners are those whose property lies within
five hundred (500) feet of the affected property and whose names and addresses
are currently listed in the county tax records.
      Within that same time period, the Town shall also prominently post a
notice of the hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an
adjacent street or highway right-of-way. The board may continue the hearing
that has been convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing
is set for a given date and a quorum of the board is not then present, the
hearing shall be continued until the next regular board meeting without further
advertisement..
      2.   POST-HEARING PROCESS
      The public hearing on a Special Use Permit application is formally closed
by a motion and vote of the Board members present at the hearing. The Planning
Director shall prepare a recommendation following the Public Hearing to be
submitted to the Town Council.
      3.   TOWN COUNCIL ACTION
      The Town Council shall not consider the approval of the Special Use
Permit until thirty (30) days after the date the Planning Board was notified of
the application or until the Planning Board makes its recommendation, whichever
comes first.
      The Town Council shall review the record of the public hearing, the
Technical Review Committee’s recommendation, the Planning Board's
recommendation, and the Planning staff's report and shall take action on the
application based on findings of fact as to the determinations required in
Section
3.8(C), GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT, and the applicable standards for
the specific special use as established by this Ordinance. All findings shall
be based on competent evidence presented at the public hearings.
      The Town Council may impose such reasonable conditions upon approval of a
SUP as will afford protection of the public health, safety, and general
welfare, ensure that substantial justice is done, and equitable treatment
provided. Where appropriate, such conditions may include requirements that
street and utility rights-of-way be dedicated to the public and that provision
be made for recreational space and facilities. Conditions and safeguards
imposed under this subsection shall not include requirements for which the Town
does not have authority under statute to regulate nor requirements for which
the courts have held to be unenforceable if imposed directly by the Town,
including, without limitation, taxes, impact fees, building design elements
within the scope of G.S. 160D-702(b), driveway-related improvements in excess
of those allowed in G.S. 136-18(29) and G.S. 160A-307, or other unauthorized
limitations on the development or use of land. All such conditions shall be
consented to in writing by the applicant or landowner.
      All conditions of approval shall run with the land and use and shall be
binding on the original applicant(s) as well as all successors, assigns, and
heirs. If the Town Council denies the permit, the reasons for its action shall
be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
   J.   FORMALIZING THE OUTCOME
   The Planning Director shall cause notice of the disposition of the
application to be delivered by certified mail to the applicant and any party
who has filed a written request for a copy with the Planning Director at the
time of the hearing, and shall cause a copy of the decision to be filed in the
Planning Director.
   In the case of approval or approval with conditions, the staff shall issue
the Special Use Permit in accordance with the action of the Town Council and
the applicant shall record it in the office of the Duplin County Register of
Deeds within ten (10) days of receipt. No Special Use Permit will be effective,
and no further permits or approvals for the development may be issued, until
the Special Use Permit has been filed with the Register of Deeds. A copy of the
Special Use Permit, with proof of filing with the Duplin County Register of
Deeds, shall be delivered to the Planning Director within ninety (90) days
after the Special Use Permit is issued to the applicant.
   Any construction authorized by a Special Use Permit must receive
construction drawing approval and a Zoning Compliance Permit as detailed in
Section
3.13, ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMITS.
   K.   APPEAL
   An aggrieved party may appeal a decision by the Town Council on an
application for a Special Use Permit to the Superior Court. Such appeal shall
be in the nature of certiorari and must be filed within the time provided by N.
C. Gen. Stat. § 160D-1402.
   L.   EFFECT OF DENIAL OR WITHDRAWAL
   When the Town Council shall have denied an application or the application
shall have been withdrawn, by written notice, after publication of the first
public hearing notice required in Section
3.8(I), NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING, the Planning staff shall not accept another
application for the same or similar Special Use, affecting the same property or
a portion thereof, until the expiration of one year from the date of denial or
withdrawal.
   M.   VESTING
   A vested right pursuant to Section
1.11, VESTED RIGHTS is established by the issuance of a Special Use Permit
pursuant to this section.
   N.   DEVIATIONS
   After a Special Use Permit has been approved, the Planning Director is
authorized to approve minor changes in the approved plans of Special Uses, as
long as they are in harmony with action of the Town Council but the Planning
Director shall not have the authority to approve changes that constitute a
modification of the approved plans. A modification shall require approval of
the Town Council. If the Planning Director is uncertain whether a requested
deviation is a “minor change” or a “modification”, it shall be treated as a
modification and referred to the Town Council for review and approval.
   O.   CRITERIA USED FOR DETERMINATION
   The Planning Director shall use the following criteria in determining
whether a proposed action is a minor change or a modification:
      1.   Any change in a specific condition imposed during the approval of a
Special Use Permit shall constitute a modification.
      2.   A substantial change in use or enlargement by greater than ten (10)
percent of an authorized use shall constitute a modification.
      3.   A ten (10) percent or greater increase in intensity of use shall
constitute a modification. An increase in the number of dwelling units is an
example of an increase in intensity of use.
      4.   An increase of intensity of less than ten (10) percent may be
considered a minor change if the Planning Director finds that the development,
as changed or modified, will continue to be in general conformance with the
approved Special Use Permit.
      5.   Structural alterations which significantly affect the basic size,
form, style, ornamentation, and/or character of buildings shown on an approved
plan or described in the applicant's narrative shall be considered a
modification.
      6.   Substantial change in the amount and/or location of open space,
recreation facilities or landscape screening shall constitute a modification.
Changes to signage which increase the number of signs, or increase the sign
face area, beyond that approved as part of the Special Use permit process shall
be considered modifications.
      7.   Any change in parking areas resulting in an increase or reduction of
ten (10) percent or more in number of spaces shall constitute a modification.
      8.   Substantial change in pedestrian and/or vehicular access or
circulation patterns shall constitute a modification.
      9.   Any change in a setback required by the provisions of this Ordinance
or imposed as a condition of approval shall constitute a modification.
      10.   Substantial change in the location or extent of street and utility
improvements or rights-of-way, including water, sewer, and storm drainage
facilities, which would result in a different level of service than was
represented to the Town Council during the public hearing process, shall
constitute a modification.
      11.   Any combination of minor changes that in the determination of the
Planning Director are, taken together, substantial in nature.
   P.   REVIEW OF RECORD REQUIRED
   The Planning Director shall, before deciding whether a proposed change to a
special use is a minor change or modification, review the record of the
proceedings of the original Special Use Permit approval. The Planning
Director’s decision shall be based upon the applicant’s request, a review of
the record of the original request, and the Planning Director’s findings under
the criteria of Section
3.8(O), CRITERIA USED FOR DETERMINATION.
   Q.   ACTION REQUIRED ON PROPOSED MINOR CHANGES
   If the Planning Director determines that the proposed action is a minor
change, he/she shall state its findings in writing to the applicant. The
applicant shall file with the Planning Director’s an amended site plan, or
written statement, outlining in detail the minor change(s) proposed. The
Planning staff shall file the amended site plan or written statement with the
originally approved site plan.
   R.   ACTION REQUIRED ON PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS
   If the Planning Director determines that the proposed action is a
modification, he shall require the applicant to submit a request for
modification of the approved Special Use Permit. The applicant shall provide an
amended site plan and written narrative outlining the specific changes
requested. The Planning Director shall submit the request to the Town Council.
If the Town Council finds the modification substantial in its impact, or wishes
to have additional public input, it may set a public hearing to receive
testimony concerning the modification request. Any public hearing called
pursuant to a request for a modification of an approved SUP shall be held in
conformity with the requirements of Section
3.8(I), PUBLIC HEARING. The Town Council may approve, approve with conditions
or disapprove the application for a modification. The Planning Director shall
file the Town Council’s action as an amendment to the original application.
   S.   REVOCATION
   The Town Council may revoke a Special Use Permit if it finds that any one,
or more, of the following conditions. In doing so, the Town Council shall
follow the same development review and approval process required for issuance
of the Special Use Permit, including any required notice or hearing, in the
review and approval of any revocation of that approval.
      1.   That any governmental license or permit required for the activity
authorized by a Special Use Permit has not been obtained or has been
terminated; or
      2.   That any of the applicable requirements of this Ordinance or any
conditions attached to the Special Use Permit, or modification thereof, have
been violated.
   The Town Council may consider reapplication for a Special Use Permit on
property on which a previous permit has expired pursuant to Section
3.8(T), EXPIRATION or has been revoked under this section, provided that all of
the standards which are set forth in this Ordinance are met.
   T.   EXPIRATION
   An approved Special Use Permit expires 24 months from the date of approval
if the Zoning Permit has not been issued for the project unless an extension of
the expiration date has been granted by the Town Council. Extensions may be in
the form of a longer expiration time approved with the initial Special Use
Permit, or a separate request made in writing before the expiration of the
standard 24 months.
3.9   VARIANCE
   A.   INTENT
   This section establishes the process to be followed by the Board of
Adjustment when it considers requests for relief relating to the requirements
of this Ordinance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the
Board if Adjustment to permit a use in a district where that use is neither a
permitted, nor Special Use.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   When a property owner claims that he or she cannot make reasonable use of
their property if they are required to comply with the dimensional standards
established by this Ordinance, such as but not limited to setback requirements,
minimum lot width requirements, minimum lot area requirements and maximum
height requirements, they may seek a variance from such requirement. Only the
Board of Adjustment has authority to grant such variances, and then only upon
application of established legal standard as set forth in this Ordinance.
   C.   GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT
   A Variance application shall be approved only upon a finding that all of the
following standards are met:
      1.   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of the
ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of the
variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property; and
      2.   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance; and
      3.   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship; and
      4.   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
   D.   INSUFFICIENT JUSTIFICATION FOR VARIANCE
   The following do not constitute grounds for a Variance:
      1.   The existence of other nonconforming or conforming uses of land or
structures in the same or other districts;
      2.   The request for a particular use expressly, or by inference,
prohibited in the district; or
      3.   Economic hardship or the fact that property may be utilized more
profitably with a Variance.
   E.   SUBSEQUENT DEVELOPMENT
   Development authorized by the Variance shall not be carried out until the
applicant has secured all other permits required by this Ordinance and/or any
other applicable regulations. The granting of a Variance does not constitute
and shall not be deemed to constitute a forecast that the development receiving
a Variance will receive any other required approval.
   F.   PROCEDURE
      1.   APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
      The application requirements, checklists, and timeline are provided in
the ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.
      2.   STAFF REVIEW
      Upon receipt of a variance application, the Planning Director shall first
determine whether the application is complete, including the payment of all
required application fees. If the Planning Director determines that the
application is not complete, it shall notify the applicant in writing of the
reasons for such determination. Once a complete application has been received,
the Planning Director shall analyze the application in conjunction with
qualified representatives of the Town and such other agencies or officials as
may be appropriate, to determine conformity with the Comprehensive Land Use
Plan, any other adopted plans, the provisions of this Ordinance, the provisions
of any Master Plan approved for the property, and other regulations applicable
in the case. The Planning Director shall schedule the complete application for
the next available meeting of the Board of Adjustment.
      3.   NOTICE OF QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC HEARING
      Notification of hearings on variance applications shall be provided in
the same manner as hearings on Special Use Permit applications as detailed in
Section
3.8(I)(1), Notice of Public Hearing.
      4.   QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC HEARING
      Following receipt of the application from the Planning Director, the
Board of Adjustment shall conduct a quasi-judicial public hearing on the
application. After close of the hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall consider
the application, relevant support materials, and any testimony or evidence
given at the hearing and included in the record. The Board of Adjustment shall
take one of the following actions, based on the standards in Section
3.8(C)(1) through
3.8(C)(4), GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT:
         (a)   Approve the application as submitted;
         (b)   Approve the application subject to conditions; or
         (c)   Deny the application.
         The affirmative vote of at least four-fifths (4/5) of the members of
the Board of Adjustment who are eligible to vote is required to grant a
variance.
   G.   FORMALIZING THE OUTCOME
   The applicant shall receive a written notification of the outcome or final
decision by the Board of Adjustment at the conclusion of the review process.
The date of this written notice will initiate the appeal time frame for the
decision. The applicant will also be required to record a notice of the
Variance, which will be provided by the Planning Director, with the Duplin
County Register of Deeds in.
   H.   APPEAL
   An aggrieved person may appeal a decision by the Board of Adjustment on an
application for a Variance to the Superior Court. Such appeal shall be in the
nature of certiorari and must be filed within the time provided by N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 160D-1402.
   I.   MODIFICATIONS
   A Variance may be amended, extended, or modified only in accordance with the
procedures and standards established for its original approval.
   J.   EXPIRATION
   Variance approval shall automatically expire if the applicant does not
record the Variance with the Duplin County Register of Deeds within thirty (30)
days after the date the Variance is approved. Except where required as a
prerequisite for a Site Plan associated with new development, an approved and
recorded Variance shall run with the land. In cases where a Variance is a
prerequisite to site plan approval, failure of an applicant to apply for a
Zoning Compliance Permit and commence construction within one year of receiving
Variance approval shall automatically render the decision of the Board of
Adjustment null and void. Such time period shall not be extended with transfer
of ownership.
3.10   APPEAL
   A.   INTENT
   This section establishes the process to be followed by the Board of
Adjustment when it considers appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Planning Director, Technical Review Committee or
Historic District Commission, concerning the enforcement of this Ordinance.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear an appeal taken by any aggrieved person
regarding a decision or determination made by the Planning Director, the
Technical Review Committee, or the Historic District Commission, concerning the
enforcement of this, within the times provided by this Ordinance.
   C.   GENERAL STANDARDS
   In deciding appeals, the Board of Adjustment may hear those arguments based
upon an allegedly improper or erroneous interpretation of the ordinance. The
Board of Adjustment will:
      1.   Interpret the meaning of parts of this Ordinance, and
      2.   Apply the Ordinance provisions to particular fact situations in the
application.
   D.   PROCEDURE
      1.   APPEAL REQUIREMENTS
      The appeal requirements, checklists, and time for filing an appeal are
provided in the Administrative Manual. Unless another time is specifically
established by this Ordinance, appeals shall be filed within thirty (30) days
of the date of the determination being appealed. Any person with standing to
appeal has 30 days from receipt from any source of actual or constructive
notice of the final decision or notice of determination within which to file an
appeal. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, notice given pursuant to
G.S. 160D-403(b) by first class mail is deemed received on the third business
day following deposit of the notice for mailing with the United States Postal
Service.
      2.   STAFF REVIEW
      Upon receipt of an appeal, the Planning Director shall first determine
whether the application is complete, including the payment of all required
application fees. If the Planning Director determines that the application is
not complete, it shall notify the appellant in writing of the reasons for such
determination. The Planning Director shall prepare a staff report detailing the
situation involved in the appeal. If the appeal involves the action of the
Historic District Commission, minutes of the relevant Historic District
Commission meeting shall be included in the materials provided to the Board of
Adjustment. Once a complete application has been received, the Planning
Director shall schedule the complete application for the next available meeting
of the Board of Adjustment.
      3.   NOTICE OF QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC HEARING
      Notification of hearings on appeal applications shall be provided in the
same manner as hearings on Special Use Permit applications as detailed in
Section
3.8(I)(1), Notice of Public Hearing and to the Planning Director, the Technical
Review Committee, or the Historic District Commission (as appropriate).
      4.   QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC HEARING
      Following receipt of the application from the Planning Director, the
Board of Adjustment shall conduct a quasi-judicial public hearing on the
application. The official who made the decision or the person currently
occupying that position, if the decision maker is no longer employed by the
Town, shall be present at the hearing as a witness. After close of the hearing,
the Board of Adjustment shall consider the application, relevant support
materials, and any testimony or evidence given at the hearing and included in
the record. The Board of Adjustment shall take one of the following actions:
         (a)   Affirm, wholly or partly, the determination being appealed;
         (b)   Reverse, wholly or partly, the determination being appealed; or
         (c)   Modify the determination which is being appealed.
         The Board of Adjustment may include direction to the appealed entity
for how it should carry out the direction from the Board.
         The affirmative vote of at least four-fifths (4/5) of the members of
the Board of Adjustment who are eligible to vote is required to grant an appeal
(overturn a determination).
   E.   FORMALIZING THE OUTCOME
   The Board of Adjustment’s decision on the appeal shall be reduced to writing
and transmitted to the appellant by first class mail.
   F.   APPEAL
   An aggrieved person may appeal a decision by the Board of Adjustment on an
application for appeal to the Superior Court. Such appeal shall be in the
nature of certiorari and must be filed within the time provided by N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 160D-1402.
   G.   EXPIRATION
   The decision on an appeal before the Board of Adjustment, if attached to a
development approval, shall run with the approval period of that permit or
approval.
   H.   STAY OF ENFORCEMENT
   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order stays
enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines assessed
during the pendency of the appeal to the Board of Adjustment and any subsequent
appeal in accordance with G.S. 160D-1402 or during the pendency of any civil
proceeding authorized by law or appeals therefrom, unless the official who made
the decision certifies to the board after notice of appeal has been filed that,
because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause imminent peril
to life or property or, because the violation is transitory in nature, a stay
would seriously interfere with enforcement of the development regulation. In
that case, enforcement proceedings are not stayed except by a restraining
order, which may be granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not
stayed, the appellant may file with the official a request for an expedited
hearing of the appeal, and the board shall meet to hear the appeal within 15
days after such a request is filed.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, appeals of decisions
granting a development approval or otherwise affirming that a proposed use of
property is consistent with the development regulation does not stay the
further review of an application for development approvals to use the property;
in these situations, the appellant or Town may request and the board may grant
a stay of a final decision of development approval applications, including
building permits affected by the issue being appealed.
3.11   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
   A.   INTENT
   As authorized by NC Gen. Stat. §160D-940 et seq, the Town has established an
historic overlay district, the purpose and intent of which is to protect the
historic and culturally important and significant structures located in the
historic district. Consistent with N.C. Gen. Stat. §160D-947, the erection,
alteration and improvement of the exterior features of buildings and structures
in the historic district may not be undertaken until after an application for a
Certificate of Appropriateness for the work has been submitted to and approved
by the Historic District Commission.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   Within the Historic District it shall be unlawful to begin construction,
moving, demolition, alteration, or restoration of any structure or site until a
Certificate of Appropriateness has been issued. commission. Other than these
administrative decisions on minor works, decisions on certificates of
appropriateness are quasi-judicial and shall follow the procedures of G.S.
160D-406.
   C.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
   The Commission, in deliberating upon an application, shall consider, among
other things, the general scale, design, arrangement, texture, material, and
color of the building, structure, or site in question and the relation of such
factors to similar features of buildings in the immediate vicinity or buildings
of a similar architectural style or age in the Historic District.
   The Commission shall not consider the interior arrangement, nor shall it
make any requirements except for the purpose of preventing developments which
are obviously incongruous to the historic character of the Historic District.
   To provide reasonable standards to assist the Commission in its review of
design and to guide and limit the discretion of the Commission, the report
entitled “Wallace Historic District Commission Guidelines,” as adopted by the
Town Council, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this
Ordinance to guide the review of applications for Certificates of
Appropriateness.
   D.   CERTAIN CHANGES NOT PROHIBITED
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any architectural feature in the Historic District
which does not involve a change in design, material, color, or other appearance
nor to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, or
demolition of any such feature which the County Building Inspector shall
certify to the Commission is required for the public safety because of an
unsafe or dangerous condition.
   E.   PROCEDURE
      1.   AUTHORITY TO APPLY
   The owner of property in the Historic District, or his/her authorized
representative may apply to the Planning Director for a Certificate of
Appropriateness for their property.
      2.   PRE-APPLICATION
   Applicants for certificates of appropriateness are encouraged to schedule
and participate in a pre-application conference with the Planning Director
staff to review the proposal for the property and the Wallace Historic District
Commission Guidelines.
      3.   APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
   Applications for certificates of appropriateness shall be filed with the
Planning Director. The forms for such applications and other submittal
requirements shall be as set forth in the Administrative Manual. No application
shall be accepted by the Planning Director unless it complies with all
submittal requirements of this Ordinance, including payment of the applicable
fee. Applications which are not complete shall be returned forthwith to the
applicant, with a notation of the deficiencies in the application.
   F.   DELAY IN DEMOLITION
   An application for Certificate of Appropriateness authorizing the
demolition, destruction, or relocation of a building, structure, or site within
the Historic District may not be denied except as provided in Section
3.11(F)(4). However, the effective date of such a certificate may be delayed
for a period of up to 365 days from the date of approval. The maximum period of
delay authorized by this section maybe reduced by the Commission based upon a
finding that the property owner would suffer extreme hardship or be permanently
deprived of beneficial use of or a reasonable return from such property by
virtue of the delay.
      1.   During such period the Commission may negotiate with the owner and
with other parties in an effort to find a means of preserving the building or
site. If the Commission finds that a building or site within the District has
no special significance or value toward maintaining the character of the
District, it may waive all or part of such period and authorize earlier
demolition or removal.
      2.   If the Commission or Planning Board has voted to recommend the
designation of an area as an historic district and final designation has not
been made by the Town Council, the demolition or destruction of any building,
site, or structure located in the proposed district may be delayed up to 180
days or until the Town Council takes final action on the designation, whichever
occurs first.
      3.   The Town Council may enact an Ordinance to prevent the demolition by
neglect of any building or structure within the Historic District. Such
Ordinance shall provide appropriate safeguards to protect property owners from
undue economic hardship.
      4.   An application for a Certificate of Appropriateness authorizing the
demolition or destruction of a building, site, or structure determined by the
State Historic Preservation Officer as having statewide significance as defined
in the criteria of the National Register of Historic Places may be denied
except where the Commission finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship
or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by virtue of the
denial.
   G.   STAFF REVIEW
      1.   ACTION REQUIRED ON PROPOSED MINOR WORKS
      The applicant shall file with the Planning Director a written statement
outlining in detail the minor works(s) proposed. If the Planning Director
determines that the work proposed in an application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness is a minor work, such determination shall be made in written
findings. The Planning Director shall file this statement in the Zoning Office.
   H.   QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC HEARING
   The Commission is not required to conduct public hearings on applications
for certificates of appropriateness. However, all meetings of the Commission
are public meetings, notice of which shall be provided as otherwise required by
law. In cases where the Commission deems it appropriate, a quasi-judicial
public hearing shall be held concerning an application, and notice of such
hearing shall be given in the same manner as Special Use Permits established in
Section
3.8.
   I.   HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION ACTION
   The Commission may approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application
for a Certificate of Appropriateness. The Commission shall review the record of
the meeting or hearing and the application and make its decision on the
application based on the standards of evaluation listed in Section
3.11(C), STANDARDS OF EVALUATION.
   In cases where a property requesting a Certificate of Appropriateness is
encumbered with a Preservation Easement or Agreement regarding the exterior of
the structure, the concurrence of the Preservation Easement holder shall be
submitted with the application materials so that it is determined complete. The
decision of the Commission shall be binding on the property owner and
Preservation Easement/Agreement holder equally.
   J.   IMPOSED CONDITIONS
   The Commission may impose such reasonable conditions upon approval of a
Certificate of Appropriateness as will afford protection of the public health,
safety, and general welfare; insure that substantial justice is done; and
equitable treatment provided. Such conditions shall run with the land and use
and shall be binding on the original applicant(s) as well as all successors,
assigns, and heirs. If the Commission denies the Certificate, the reasons for
its action shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting and a copy sent to
the applicant by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   K.   NOTICE OF DECISION AND ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
   Upon approval, approval subject to conditions, or denial of any application,
the Commission shall forthwith transmit a report to the Planning Director
stating its decision, and cause a copy of the decision to be transmitted to the
applicant.
   The Planning Director shall periodically inspect the construction or
alteration, and immediately report to the Commission any work not in accordance
with the Certificate.
   All applications for certificates of appropriateness shall be reviewed and
acted upon within a reasonable time, not to exceed 180 days from the date that
a complete application for a Certificate of Appropriateness is filed, unless an
extension of time is agreed to by the applicant.
   L.   APPEAL
   A decision of the Commission on an application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment by an aggrieved
party. Such appeal shall be made within thirty (30) days of filing of the
decision in the office of the Planning Director or the delivery of the notice
required in Section
3.11(K), whichever is later. Such appeals to the Board of Adjustment are in the
nature of certiorari and the Board of Adjustment shall determine such appeals
based on the record generated before the Commission. Any appeal from a decision
of the Board of Adjustment shall be heard by the Duplin County Superior Court,
and shall be filed in the time prescribed in N.C. Gen. Stat. §160D-1402.
   M.   EXPIRATION
   A Certificate of Appropriateness approved pursuant to this section shall
expire one year after the date of approval if the work authorized by the
approval has not begun, unless the time is extended by the Commission. The
process for extending approvals is addressed in the Rules of Procedure for the
Historic District Commission.
3.12   SITE PLAN REVIEW
   A.   INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to address the specific conditions and
standards of evaluation for the review of site plans.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   Site Plan review is the general term used to describe review of projects
other than (a) the construction of single family dwellings on lots zoned for
single family uses and (b) uses requiring a Special Use Permit.
   The Site Plan Review process is applicable only to proposed development
involving the disturbance of 3 acres or less and or involving the construction
of new structures or additions consisting of 10,000 square feet or less of
gross floor area in any general purpose zoning district. Projects that exceed
this threshold are required to pursue a Special Use Permit in accordance with
the standards and provisions established by Section
3.8, Special Use Permit, of this Ordinance.
   C.   GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT
   The following specific standards shall apply to the review of a site plan:
      1.   The use is a permitted use according to the Use Table for the
district in which the property is situated.
      2.   The lot area satisfies the minimum requirement for the district, or,
if legal nonconforming, is of sufficient size that all required parking,
access, yard areas, and buffers are provided without any variance to the stated
standards of the Unified Development Ordinance.
      3.   A fire protection plan has been reviewed and approved in writing by
the Fire Marshal.
      4.   A utility plan has been approved in writing by the Public Works
Director and does not require improvement of any existing systems by the Town
of Wallace.
      5.   A landscaping plan which meets the requirements of this Ordinance
has been submitted.
      6.   The proposed exterior lighting plan and signs meet all the
requirements of this Ordinance.
      7.   Driveways meet requirements for restricting access to the property
and design standards for safety and storm water control.
      8.   The parking layout meets the minimum standards of this Ordinance and
controls storm water runoff onto streets and adjacent properties.
      9.   Grading, storm drainage, and soil erosion control plans have been
approved in writing by the Public Works Director or consulting Engineer as
appropriate.
      10.   The location, buffers, and/or screening, and construction
specifications for any required or proposed trash containers meet the minimum
requirements of this Ordinance.
      11.   The site plan shows the location of and distance to any structures
within one hundred (100) feet of the lot for which the site plan application is
submitted. The site plan must show all other significant physical features
within one hundred (100) of the lot boundary.
      12.   A traffic impact analysis (TIA), if required, demonstrates that the
proposed site development will not cause a reduction in the Level of Service
(LOS) at any intersection studied in the TIA, or that any measurable reduction
in LOS has been or will be mitigated by site plan design features.
   D.   PROCEDURE
      1.   AUTHORITY TO APPLY
      The owner of any property, or their authorized representative, may apply
to the Planning Director for site plan approval.
      2.   PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE
      Before submitting an application for site plan approval, the applicant
shall first meet with the Planning Director to review the proposed plan and the
requirements of this Ordinance.
   E.   APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
   The Planning Director shall provide forms for applications for site plan
approval, which shall be submitted by the applicant. Applicants for site plan
approval shall submit all information required to be submitted with Special Use
Permit applications as set forth in Section
3.8(E)(3), APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS and in the ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL, and any
additional information needed to demonstrate and support compliance with the
standards of evaluation. No application shall be accepted as complete unless
accompanied by all required fees as set forth in the Schedule of Fees.
   F.   REVIEW PROCESS
      1.   The Planning Director shall review and, if the site plan submitted
otherwise meets all of the standards of this Ordinance, approve site plans for
uses permitted as of right where
         (a)   less than 1 acre of land will be disturbed by the proposed
development,
         (b)   no new structure consists of more than 2,500 square feet of
gross floor area, and/or
         (c)   no addition to an existing structure consists of more than 5,000
square feet of gross floor area.
      2.   The Technical Review Committee shall review, and, if the site plan
submitted otherwise meets all of the standards established in this Ordinance,
approve site plans for uses permitted as of right where
         (a)   1 or more acres, but less than 3 acres, of land will be
disturbed by the proposed development, and/or
         (b)   new structure(s) consist of more than 2,500 square feet and less
than 10,000 square feet of gross floor area , and/or
         (c)   additions to an existing structure consist of between 5000
square feet and 10,000 square feet of gross floor area.
      3.   The Planning Director and the Technical Review Committee shall each
have the authority to refer a site plan to the Technical Review Committee or
the Town Council, as appropriate, if an application involves unusual
circumstances, or potential impacts on public health, safety or general
welfare, or on sensitive cultural, historic or natural resources in the opinion
of the reviewer. Such referral shall be made in writing to the applicant and
review entity, detailing the specific reason for the referral.
      4.   If a Site Plan is denied for lack of compliance with provisions in
Section 6 of this Ordinance, the applicant shall have the option to file an
appeal with the Board of Adjustment consistent with Section
3.12(H), Appeal. The Board of Adjustment may apply its authority to grant
waivers of provisions in Section 6 during its review of an appeal of this type.
   G.   DECISIONS ON SITE PLAN APPLICATIONS
   The Planning Director and/or the Technical Review Committee shall have the
authority to approve site plans, or to deny site plan approval on the grounds
that:
      1.   The site plan submitted fails to comply with any specific
requirements of this Ordinance;
      2.   The site plan submitted fails to adequately protect residentially
zoned property, or property in a residential use; or
      3.   The site plan submitted fails to provide safe conditions for
pedestrians or motorists. All such decisions shall be made in writing, and the
written decision shall be filed with the Planning Director and sent to the
applicant by first class mail.
   H.   APPEAL
   A decision of the Planning Director or Technical Review Committee on an
application for a Site Plan Review may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment
by an aggrieved party. Such appeal shall be made within thirty (30) days of
filing of the decision in the office of the Planning Director or the delivery
of the notice required in Section
3.12(G), Decisions on Site Plan Applications whichever is later.
   I.   VESTING
   No statutory vested right is established by approval of a site plan except
in the case of a site plan approved by the Town Council following the special
use permit process.
   J.    MODIFICATIONS
   Approval of modifications can be made to the approved Site Plan by applying
the procedures and criteria found in Sections
3.8(P), ACTIONS REQUIRED OF PROPOSED MINOR CHANGES and
3.8(Q), ACTIONS REQUIRED ON PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS OF THIS ORDINANCE.
   K.   REVOCATION
   Site Plan Approval may be revoked by the issuing authority following the
same procedure and applying the same criteria as established for revocation of
special use permits in Section
3.8(S), REVOCATION.
   L.   EXPIRATION
   Site plan approval expires twenty-four (24) months from the date of approval
if a Zoning Compliance Permit has not been issued for the project.
3.13   ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT
   A.   INTENT
   The intent of the Zoning Compliance Permit is to provide written
documentation of the completion of the development review processes under this
Ordinance. This permit is a prerequisite to securing a Duplin County Building
Permit. A Zoning Compliance Permit documents a project’s compliance with this
Ordinance and with the Administrative Manual without regard to any contractual
or other arrangements (including, but not limited to restrictive covenants)
among private parties which may also affect the use of the property.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   It shall be unlawful to begin construction, place, or move any structure
(including signs) or to begin to grade or excavate for immediate construction
until the Planning Director has issued for such work a Zoning Compliance
Permit. A Zoning Compliance Permit signifies a determination that the site
plan, building specifications and the intended use of such structure conform in
all respects to the provisions of this Ordinance.
   Also, it shall be unlawful to change the type of use or type of occupancy of
any building, or to alter or extend any use of any lot on which there is a non-
conforming use, until the Planning Director has issued for such intended use a
Zoning Compliance Permit, including a determination that the proposed use
conforms in all respects to the provisions of this Ordinance.
   C.   GENERAL STANDARDS/FINDINGS OF FACT
   The application materials, as specified in the Administrative Manual, when
taken together provide sufficient evidence for the Planning Director to
conclude that the project, with reasonable conditions, will comply with the
provisions of this ordinance and the Administrative Manual.
   D.   PROCEDURE
   If the proposed excavation, construction, relocating, alteration, or use of
land as set forth in the application is in conformity with the provisions of
this Ordinance, the Planning Director shall issue a Zoning Compliance Permit;
however,
      1.   Issuance of a Zoning Compliance Permit shall in no case be construed
as waiving any provision of this Ordinance.
      2.   Under no circumstances is the Planning Director permitted to vary
the terms of this Ordinance, deviate from the apparent meaning of any clause,
standard, or regulation contained in this Ordinance, or otherwise afford
special treatment to any person making application to excavate, construct,
move, alter, or use either buildings, structures, or land.
      3.   Under no circumstances is the Planning Director permitted to make
any changes to this Ordinance.
      4.   The Planning Director shall issue a Stop Work Order if a project is
found to be under construction without a Zoning Compliance Permit, if a Zoning
Compliance Permit is revoked in accordance with Section
3.13(K), Revocation, or if work being undertaken is contrary to this Ordinance
or any permit issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
   E.   FORMALIZING THE OUTCOME
   The Planning Director shall issue a permit when the applicable provisions of
this Ordinance are satisfied. The permit shall be provided in writing and may
be in print or electronic format. Permits issued exclusively in electronic form
shall be protected from further editing once issued.
   If an application for such a permit is not approved, the Planning Director
shall state in writing the reason(s) for such denial.
   F.   APPEAL
   Persons aggrieved by a decision or a determination made by the Planning
Director may appeal that action to the Board of Adjustment, following the
procedures established in Section
3.10, APPEAL.
   G.   VESTING
   The issuance of a Zoning Compliance Permit does confer a statutory vested
right unless permit is revoked according to Section
3.13(H), DEVIATIONS, as described below or if permit is revoked for any other
reason.
   H.   DEVIATIONS
   If a site inspection reveals work undertaken does not comply with conditions
and specifications of an approved Zoning Compliance Permit, the approved permit
may be revoked or a stop work ordered issued. Such stop work order shall remain
in effect until the Planning Director determines that the work is in compliance
with the provisions of this Ordinance and the Administrative Manual.
   I.   MODIFICATIONS
   A Zoning Compliance Permit may be modified at the request of the applicant
at any time before it expires. Such modification must comply with all
provisions of this ordinance and the Administrative Manual. All modifications
must be documented in writing.
   J.   REVOCATION
   The Planning Director shall revoke a Zoning Compliance Permit if it is found
to be issued in violation of any provisions of this Ordinance, or if the
conditions stated on the permit are not satisfied.
   K.   EXPIRATION
   A Zoning Compliance Permit shall be valid for 12 months from the date of
issuance. In the case that the Zoning Compliance Permit authorizes a
construction project that takes more than 12 months to complete, the permit
shall be valid so long as the Duplin County Building Permit for the project
remains active and unexpired subject to G.S. 160D-1111.
3.14   CONDITIONAL REZONING
   A.   AUTHORITY
   The Town may establish zoning districts by means of conditional zoning in
accordance with G.S. 160D-703.
   B.   PURPOSE
   In cases where the standards of a general (base) zoning district are
inadequate to ensure that development allowed by the district will conform to
the Town’s adopted plans or to appropriately address the impacts expected to be
generated by such development, a landowner may apply for a Conditional
Rezoning. Such rezoning establishes a conditional zoning district that is
equivalent to the general (base) zoning district, buy subject to additional
conditions or restrictions that the applicant and the Town mutually agree are
necessary to ensure conformance to adopted plans and adequately address
expected development impacts. The purpose of this section is to provide a
uniform means for amending the Official Zoning Map to establish conditional
zoning districts.
   C.   INITIATION
   In accordance with the North Carolina General Statutes, an application for a
Conditional Rezoning may be initiated only by the owner(s) or a duly authorized
representative of the property owner of all the property included in the
proposed conditional zoning district.
   D.   PROCEDURE
      1.   BASIC PROCEDURES
            (a)   Except as modified by Section
3.14(D)(2)-(10) below, procedures and requirements for the submission,
completeness determination, review, recommendation, hearing, and decision on
applications are as established in Section
3.2, COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES.
            (b)   Specific steps to be completed before any Public Hearing on
the application include:
                  i.   Pre-Application Conference with Town Staff
                  ii.    Informational Meeting with area residents and property
owners
                  iii.   Submittal of complete application
                  iv.    Staff Review and Report on the complete application
      2.   PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE ON SITE PREFERRED
      For conditional rezoning requests, the pre-application conference
required shall include a meeting with the Town Staff, preferably on-site, to
discuss a Sketch Plan of the proposed development conditions and to identify
possible unique situations that should be incorporated into the Sketch Plan
prior to filing for rezoning.
      3.   INFORMATIONAL MEETING REQUIRED
      After the Pre-Application Conference, but before the submittal of a
formal application, an Informational Meeting shall be held in accordance with
the requirements set forth in the ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.
      4.   APPLICATION TO INCLUDE CONDITIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT
      The application shall include a Sketch Plan that depicts the conditions
upon which the property will be developed, including the general configuration
and relationship of the principal elements, including uses, general building
types, density/intensity, resource protection, pedestrian and vehicular
circulation, stormwater management, and open space. The application shall
include mapped and written conditions proposed by the applicant consistent with
the provisions of Section
3.14(D)(9),CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
      5.   APPLICATION MAY INCLUDE VESTED RIGHTS REQUEST
      The applicant may request approval of the application to establish a
vested right in accordance with Section160D-108 or 160D-108.1 of the North
Carolina General Statutes. Concurrent with the application for a conditional
rezoning, the application shall include a written request for such a vested
right and a plan that shows at least the information specified be the North
Carolina General Statute definition of a site specific vesting plan.
      6.   REVIEW AND STAFF REPORT BY PLANNING DIRECTOR
      Before review by the Planning Board the application shall be reviewed by
the Planning Director, who may suggest revisions to the proposed conditions,
consistent with the provisions of Section
3.14(D)(9), CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL. Only those revisions agreed to in writing
by the applicant shall be incorporated into the application and may be
reflected in the Staff Report.
      7.   REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION BY PLANNING BOARD
            (a)   Following staff review, the Planning Board shall conduct a
hearing on the application. After close of the hearing, the Planning Board will
make a decision based upon the application, consistency with the Comprehensive
Plan, relevant support materials, the staff report, and any comments given by
the public. Upon making a decision, the Planning Board, by a majority vote of a
quorum present, shall adopt a written recommendation for one of the following
actions, based on the standards in Section
3.14(F), CONDITIONAL REZONING STANDARDS:
                  i.   Approval of the application subject to the conditions
included in the application;
                  ii.    Approval of the application subject to any revised or
additional conditions agreed to by the applicant, in writing;
                  iii.    Denial of the application; or
                  iv.    Continuance of the hearing.
            (b)   As part of its review of the application, the Planning Board
may suggest revisions to the proposed conditions, consistent with the
provisions of Section
3.14(D)(9), CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL. Only those revisions agreed to in writing
by the applicant shall be incorporated into the application.
            (c)   In making its recommendation, the Planning Board shall adopt
a written Statement of Consistency and Reasonableness that:
      i.    describes whether the decision is consistent with all Town-adopted
plans that are applicable; and
                  ii.    explains why the decision is reasonable and in the
public interest.
      8.   PUBLIC HEARING, REVIEW, AND DECISION BY TOWN COUNCIL
            (a)    Following staff review and receipt of the Planning Board’s
recommendation, the Town Council shall conduct a standard, legislative public
hearing on the application in accordance with ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL for Public
Notification and Standard Public Hearing Procedures. After close of the
hearing, the Town Council shall consider the application, consistency with the
Comprehensive Plan, relevant support materials, the staff report, the Planning
Board recommendation, and any comments given by the public.
            (b)   As part of its review of the application, the Town Council
shall review the proposed conditions and may suggest revisions to the proposed
conditions, consistent with the provisions of Section
3.14(D)(9), CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
            (c)   The Town Council, by a majority vote of a quorum present,
shall take one of the following actions based on the Map Amendment (Rezoning)
Standards:
                  i.    Approval of the application subject to the conditions
included in the application;
                  ii.    Approval of the application subject to any revised or
additional conditions agreed to by the applicant, in writing;
                  iii.    Denial of the application; or
                  iv.    Remand of the application back to the Planning Board
for further consideration during a standard public hearing notice;
                  v.    Continuance of the hearing
            (d)   Regardless of its decision on the proposed amendment, the
Town Council will render a decision based upon a Statement of Consistency and
Reasonableness that:
                  i.    describes whether the decision is consistent with all
Town-adopted plans that are applicable; and
                  ii.    explains why the decision is reasonable and in the
public interest
      9.   CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
   (a)   Only conditions mutually agreed to by the owners of the property to be
rezoned and the Town may be applied to a conditional rezoning district. Where
appropriate, such conditions may include requirements that street and utility
rights-of-way be dedicated to the public and that provision be made for
recreational space and facilities. Conditions and safeguards imposed under this
subsection shall not include requirements for which the Town does not have
authority under statute to regulate nor requirements for which the courts have
held to be unenforceable if imposed directly by the Town, including, without
limitation, taxes, impact fees, building design elements within the scope of
G.S. 160D-702(b), driveway-related improvements in excess of those allowed in
G.S. 136-18(29) and G.S. 160A-307, or other unauthorized limitations on the
development or use of land. All such conditions shall be consented to in
writing by the applicant or landowner.
            (b)   Conditions shall be limited to those that address conformance
of development and use of the site with Town regulations and adopted plans and
that address the impacts reasonably expected to be generated by the development
or use of the site.
            (c)   Conditions may be in the form of text or of plans and maps.
            (d)   No condition shall be less restrictive than the standards of
the parallel general use (base) zoning district, any applicable overlay zoning
district standard, or other applicable requirement of this Ordinance.
      10.   EXPIRATION
            (a)   If no application for approval of a Subdivision Preliminary
Plat or Site Plan (Major or Minor) for any part of the rezoned land is
submitted with two years after approval of the Conditional Rezoning, the
Planning Director shall initiate a Map Amendment (Rezoning) application to
rezone the land back to its prior zoning classification or any other base
zoning classification determined to be appropriate. A change in ownership of
the land shall not affect this time period. However, this period may be
approved for up to five (5) years under relevant circumstances as provided for
in Section
3.14(D)(10)(b) below.
            (b)   For some developments, Town Council may provide that the
expiration period under Section
3.14(D)(10)(a) may exceed two (2) years but shall not exceed five (5) years, as
warranted in light of all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited
to, the size and phasing of development, the level of investment, the need for
the development, economic cycles, and market conditions. Such a determination
shall be in the sound discretion of the Town Council. As a condition of
approval when an extended expiration period is requested, the Town may require
the applicant to submit a phased development plan.
            (c)   Upon written request submitted at least thirty (30) days
before expiration of the timeframe provided for in Section
3.14(D)(10)(b) above, and upon a showing of good cause, the Planning Director
may grant one (1) extension not to exceed six (6) months for the applicant to
submit required development applications.
   E.   CONDITIONAL REZONING STANDARDS
   Review of and the decision on a Conditional Rezoning application shall be
subject to the Map Amendment (Rezoning) Standards
   F.   EFFECT OF APPROVAL
   Lands rezoned to a conditional zoning district shall be subject to the
standards applicable to the parallel general use (base) zoning district, as
modified by the more restrictive conditions proposed by the applicant and
approved by the Town Council. The applicant shall record the restrictive
conditions of approval with the Register of Deeds. These standards and
modifying conditions are binding on the land as an amendment to this Ordinance
and the Official Zoning Map. The applicant may apply for and obtain subsequent
development permits and approvals only in accordance with the approved
conditions and appropriate procedures and standards set forth in this
Ordinance.
   G.   MINOR DEVIATIONS FROM CONDITIONS
      1.   Subsequent plans and permits for development within the Conditional
Zoning District may include minor deviations from the approved conditions,
provided such deviations are limited to changes addressing technical
considerations that could not reasonably be anticipated during the Conditional
Rezoning review process or any other change that has no material effect on the
character of the approved conditional zoning district or any of its approved
terms and conditions. The following shall constitute examples of minor
deviations:
            (a)   Floor plan revisions internal to the structure
            (b)   Minor shifts in building size or location; and
            (c)   Facility design modifications for amenities and the like
      2.   Changes that materially affect the basic configuration or intent of
approved conditions are not considered minor deviations, and shall be
amendments that may only be considered in accordance with the procedure used to
establish the conditional zoning district
   H.   DESIGNATION ON OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
   Designation of a conditional zoning district on the Official Zoning Map
shall bear the same designation as the parallel general use (base) zoning
district but shall also include the suffix “C” along with the case number
approving the Conditional Rezoning.
3.15   ANNEXATION
   A.   AUTHORITY
   Authority is given to the town under Article 4A of the North Carolina
General Statutes more specifically G.S. 160A-31 (voluntary contiguous
annexation) and G.S. 160A-58.1 (voluntary satellite annexation).
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   Voluntary annexation is a mutual agreement that results when the owners of
one or more parcels of property and the town agree that the town will annex
those parcels.
      1.   All voluntary annexation petitions shall be submitted and reviewed
in accordance with the policy included in the Administrative Manual. The Town
Council has discretion as to whether it annexes any property. The voluntary
annexation petition shall include all the property within the parcel or parcels
and may not subdivide parcels.
      2.   For properties located within the Town's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, if a rezoning application is submitted with the annexation
petition, the rezoning and annexation shall be processed and approved
simultaneously. For properties located outside the Town's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, the annexation petition must be approved prior to the rezoning
application.
      3.   If a site and/or subdivision plan or other development plan is
submitted with the annexation petition, the decision-making body responsible
for approving the site and/or subdivision plan may not approve the plan until
the annexation has been approved.
      4.   All proposals to connect to the Town's water and/or sanitary sewer
system shall be required to submit a petition for annexation into the Town's
corporate boundaries at the time an application for rezoning or site and/or
subdivision plan or other development plan approval is filed with the Town.
   C.   VOLUNTARY CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION
   For purposes of this section, an area shall be deemed “contiguous” if, at
the time the petition is submitted, such area either abuts directly on the
municipal boundary or is separated from the municipal boundary by a street or
street right-of-way, a creek or river, or the right-of-way of a railroad or
other public service corporation, lands owned by the municipality or some other
political subdivision, or lands owned by the State of North Carolina.
   Procedures for Voluntary Contiguous Annexation are set forth in G.S. 160A-
31.
   D.   VOLUNTARY SATELLITE ANNEXATION
   For the purposes of this section, an area shall be deemed “satellite” if, at
the time of the petition is submitted, such area does not qualify as contiguous
area under Section
3.15(C), VOLUNTARY CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION above.
      1.   FIVE STANDARDS
      The five standards a satellite annexation must meet are set out in G.S.
160A-58.1(b) as follows:
         (a)   Some part of the annexation area must be within three miles of
the annexing city’s primary corporate limits.
         (b)   No point in the annexation area may be closer to the primary
corporate limits of another city that to the primary corporate limits of the
annexing city.
         (c)   The annexing city must be able to provide the same services to
the annexation area that it provides to areas within its primary corporate
limits.
         (d)   If the area is a subdivision, the entire subdivision must be
annexed.
         (e)   The total area of a city’s satellites may not exceed ten (10)
percent of the area within its primary corporate limits.
         The Town of Wallace through local acts are exempt from Section
3.15(D)(1)(d) and (e).
      2.   PROCEDURES
      Procedures for Voluntary Contiguous Annexation are set forth beginning in
G.S. 160A-58.
   E.   PETITION FOR ANNEXATION
   The petition for annexation is located in the Administrative Manual. Review
process follows guidelines as set forth in the Administration Manual.
Chapter 4 – Zoning Districts
Table of Contents
   
4.1   General Provisions
   
4.2   Base Zoning Districts Established
   
4.2.1   Table: Base Zoning Districts
   
4.3   Residential Base Zoning Districts
   
4.4   Business Base Zoning Districts
   
4.5   Conditional Zoning Districts
   
4.5.1   Table: Conditional Zoning Districts
   
4.6   Overlay Zoning Districts
   
4.7   RESERVED
   
4.8   Airport Zoning Code
   
4.9   Flood Damage Prevention
4.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   A.   TYPES OF ZONING DISTRICTS
   All land within the Town of Wallace is classified by this Ordinance to be
within one of the several Base Zoning Districts, Conditional Zoning Districts,
or Special Use Zoning Districts listed in Sections
4.2,
4.5 and
4.7 respectively.
   B.   OVERLAY ZONING AREAS AND RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING DISTRICTS
   Land within any base, conditional, or special use zoning district may also
be classified into one or more Overlay Zoning areas, as listed in Section
4.6, OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS. Regulations governing development in an overlay
area shall apply in addition to the regulations governing development in the
underlying district. If the standards governing a zoning district expressly
conflict with those governing an overlay zoning area, the standards governing
the overlay area shall control.
   C.   COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT STANDARDS
   No land within the Town shall be developed except in accordance with the
zoning district use, development standards and requirements of this chapter and
all other regulations of this Ordinance, as applicable.
4.2   BASE ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
   Table
4.2.1, BASE ZONING DISTRICTS, sets out the base zoning districts established by
this Ordinance.
TABLE 4.2.1
BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
Abbreviation Zoning District
Abbreviation Zoning District
R-20MH       Residential/Manufactured Housing
RA-20        Residential/Agricultural
R-15         Residential
R-10         Residential
R-8          Residential
R-6MH        Residential/Manufactured Housing
R-6          Residential
NB           Neighborhood Business
CB           Central Business
HB           Highway Business
I            Industrial
4.3   RESIDENTIAL BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
   A.   LOW INTENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (R-20 MH, R-15, R-10)
      1.   INTENT
      The purpose of these (R-20 MH, R-15, R-10) districts are to provide
locations for moderate to low intensity residential neighborhoods that include
opportunities for development of supporting recreational, community service,
and educational uses proximate to neighborhoods. These districts are created to
encourage development of neighborhoods comprised chiefly of single-family
detached units.
      2.   APPLICATION CRITERIA
      These districts will usually be applied where the following conditions
exist:
         (a)   Water and sewer lines exist at the site or are to be installed
as part of the development process.
         (b)   There is direct vehicular access to a street classified as
either collector or local.
   B.   HIGH INTENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (R-8, R-6, R-6 MH)
      1.   INTENT
      The purpose of these (R-8, R-6, R-6 MH) districts are to provide
locations for higher intensity residential neighborhoods that include
opportunities for development of supporting recreational, community service,
and educational uses proximate to neighborhoods. These districts are created to
encourage development of neighborhoods comprised chiefly of single-family
detached units.
      2.   APPLICATION CRITERIA
      These districts will usually be applied where the following conditions
exist:
         (a)   Water and sewer lines exist at the site or are to be installed
as part of the development process.
         (b)   There is direct vehicular access to a street classified as
either collector or local.
   C.   RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (RA-20)
      1.   INTENT
      The purpose of the RA-20 District is to accommodate rural uses, including
agricultural uses, uses that complement or support agricultural uses, and
moderate density residential uses. The RA-20 District is intended to encourage
residential development that preserves farmland and other open space.
      2.   APPLICATION CRITERIA
      This district will usually be applied where the following conditions
exist:
         (a)   Adjacent to land already designated on the adopted Zoning Map as
Agricultural/Residential.
         (b)   The average lot size should be a minimum of 20,000 square feet
within the proposed district.
4.4   BUSINESS BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
   A.   NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT (NB)
      1.   INTENT
      The purpose of the NB District is to accommodate small-scale, low-
intensity, and convenience retail and service uses that provide goods and
services to residents of the immediately surrounding neighborhood. Development
in this district should not be out of character or scale with a residential
neighborhood, nor should it attract traffic from outside the surrounding
neighborhood. Performance standards shall be used to insure the absence of
adverse impacts beyond the immediate space occupied by the building.
      2.   APPLICATION CRITERIA
      This district will usually be applied where the following conditions
exist:
         (a)   Normally located at the intersection of either sub-collector or
local streets.
         (b)   Uses would generally not serve commuters or persons outside the
surrounding neighborhood.
         (c)   Water and sewer lines exist at the site or are to be installed
as part of the development process.
         (d)   Normally, the maximum amount of land zoned NB at any
intersection shall not exceed one acre.
   B.   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CB)
      1.   INTENT
      The purpose of the CB District is to encourage the urban form and
character found in the traditional downtown area, and to promote redevelopment
that will make the historic core a more diverse and vibrant mixed-use center.
The district is intended to accommodate a well-balanced mix of uses
(commercial, office, service, and residential uses) within the historic central
core of the Town. The core commercial areas are to be preserved and enhanced
over the long term and should provide mixed-use opportunities that combine
second floor residential units with ground floor non-residential uses.
Performance standards shall be used to insure the absence of adverse impacts
beyond the zoning district boundaries.
      2.   APPLICATION CRITERIA
      This district will usually be applied where the following conditions
exist:
         (a)   Adjacent to existing central business district designation.
         (b)   Uses would serve a market area population of major segments of
the Town and through traffic.
         (c)   Water and sewer lines exist at the site or are to be installed
as part of the development process.
         (d)   All property to be designated for new development under this
classification shall have direct access to a paved public street.
   C.   HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT (HB)
      1.   INTENT
      The purpose of the HB District is to accommodate a diverse range of
retail, service, and office uses that provide goods and services to the
residents and businesses in the community at large – e.g., shopping centers,
convenience stores, and retail sales establishments. Performance standards
shall be used to insure the absence of adverse impacts beyond the zoning
district boundary.
      2.   APPLICATION CRITERIA
      This district will usually be applied where the following conditions
exist:
         (a)   Water and sewer lines exist at the site or are to be made
available as part of the development process.
         (b)   All property to be designated for new development under this
classification shall have direct access to arterial streets.
    D   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I)
      1.   INTENT
      The purpose of the Industrial District it to accommodate manufacturing,
assembly, fabrication, processing, distribution, storage, research and
development, and other industrial uses that may be large-scale or otherwise
have extensive exterior movement of vehicles, materials, and goods, but that
achieve high environmental quality standards and have minimal impacts on
adjacent uses.
      2.   APPLICATION CRITERIA
      This district will generally be applied where the following conditions
exist:
         (a)   Water and sewer lines exist at the site or are to be made
available as a part of the development process.
         (b)   Direct vehicular access is to a public street with immediate and
convenient access to a street classified as an arterial. Immediate and
convenient shall in this case mean traffic would not travel through or adjacent
to an existing residential neighborhood to get from the site to the arterial
road.
         (c)   Rail access is desirable, but not required.
4.5   CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICT
   A.   INTENT
   The rezoning of land to a conditional zoning district is intended to provide
a landowner and the town an alternative to rezoning the land to a base zoning
district, where the base zoning district allows certain uses and development
that may be appropriate but also allows uses and development that may not
conform to town plans or would have adverse impacts on public facilities or
surrounding lands. Reclassification of land to a conditional zoning district
allows a landowner to propose, and the Town Council to consider, additional
conditions or restrictions on the range of allowable uses, use standards,
development intensities, development standards, and other regulations
applicable in the parallel base zoning district. This enables the town to
tailor a zoning classification to accommodate desirable development while
avoiding or addressing anticipated problems that may arise from development
otherwise allowed by the zoning classification.
   B.   ESTABLISHMENT OF CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICTS
   Table
4.5.1, CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICTS, sets out the conditional zoning districts
established by this ordinance. There is a conditional zoning district
paralleling each base zoning district set forth in Table
4.2.1, BASE ZONING DISTRICTS.
TABLE 4.5.1
CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICTS
Abbreviation Zoning District
Abbreviation Zoning District
R-20MH-C     Conditional Residential/Manufactured Housing
RA-20-C      Conditional Residential/Agricultural
R-15-C       Conditional Residential
R-10-C       Conditional Residential
R-8-C        Conditional Residential
R-6MH-C      Conditional Residential/Manufactured Housing
R-6-C        Conditional Residential
NB-C         Conditional Neighborhood Business
CB-C         Conditional Central Business
HB-C         Conditional Highway Business
I-C          Conditional Industrial
   C.   CLASSIFICATION OF CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICTS
   Land shall be classified into a conditional zoning district only in
accordance with the procedures and requirements set forth in Section
3.14, CONDITIONAL REZONING.
   D.   APPLICABLE REGULATIONS
      1.   Development in a conditional zoning district shall be subject to all
the use and development standards and requirements that apply to development in
the parallel base zoning district, plus the conditions imposed as part of the
Conditional Rezoning approval, which may not be less restrictive than the
regulations for the parallel base zoning district.
   2.   Conditions embodied in a previously-approved Special Use Permit shall
continue to apply unless modified in accordance with the procedures and
requirements set forth in Section
3.14, CONDITIONAL REZONING.
   E.   RELATIONSHIP TO OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
   Regulations governing development in an overlay zoning district shall apply
in addition to the regulations governing development in the underlying
conditional zoning district. If the standards governing a conditional zoning
district expressly conflict with those governing an overlay zoning district,
the standards governing the overlay district shall control.
   F.   APPLIED TO ENTIRE LOT
   After the effective date of this Ordinance, no application for Conditional
Rezoning (See Section
3.14) may split an existing site or lot of record into a conditional zoning
district and a base zoning district. Nothing in this subsection shall limit a
conditional rezoning that splits a lot or site into two or more conditional
zoning district designations.
4.6   OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
   A.   HISTORIC OVERLAY DISTRICT (HDO)
      1.   INTENT
      The purpose of the Historic District is to provide criteria to insure
that new buildings, structures and uses of land within the Historic District
shall be consistent with the character of the existing buildings, structures
and uses of land in the Historic District. Applicants must seek approval of a
Certificate of Appropriateness for projects within this district, in accordance
with Section
3.11, CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. Criteria for evaluating projects in the
Historic District are provided in the Wallace Historic District Commission
Design Guidelines as referenced in Section
3.11(C), STANDARDS OF EVALUATION. It is not the intent of this Ordinance to
require the reconstruction or restoration of individual or original buildings,
or to impose any particular architectural style.
      2.   APPLICATION CRITERIA
      The area defined by the official Zoning Map has been designated as having
historic significance, and having need of additional regulation to protect and
preserve its historic significance and character.
   B.   BILLBOARD OVERLAY DISTRICT (BDO)
      1.   INTENT
         (a)    It is recognized that billboards provide the opportunity to
advertise products, services, and ideas; however, because of their sheer size,
location in proximity to buildings, and potential for storm damage, billboards
can be aesthetically undesirable, create traffic hazards, and present dangers
to adjoining lands. Due to their size and prominence upon the landscape,
billboards constitute a separate and distinct land use subject to the standards
in this section and Section
5.2(C), BILLBOARDS.
         (b)    The Billboard Overlay (BDO) District is established to provide
an appropriate location for billboards as defined in Section
10.2, DEFINITIONS.
      2.   INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
      The BDO, as set forth on a map entitled Billboard Overlay Zone, as
amended, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference into this UDO and the
official zoning map.
      3.   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
      All billboards (including all parking, landscaping, and all other
associated site improvements) shall be located within the BDO.
4.7   RESERVED
4.8   AIRPORT ZONING CODE
   A.    DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
AIRPORT: The Town Municipal Airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The established elevation of the highest point on the usable
landing area.
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure, tree or use of land which obstructs the airspace
required for or is otherwise hazardous to the flight of aircraft in landing or
taking-off at the airport.
AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT: The point established as the approximate geographic
center of the airport landing area and so designated.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A board consisting of five members appointed by the Town
Council, as provided in the general statutes.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level
elevation unless otherwise specified.
INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway equipped or to be equipped with electronic or
visual air navigation aids adequate to permit the landing of aircraft under
restricted visibility conditions.
LANDING AREA: The area of the airport, used for the landing, take-off or
taxiing of aircraft.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any structure, tree or use of land which is lawfully in
existence at the time the regulation is prescribed in the chapter or an
amendment thereto becomes effective and does not then meet the requirements of
the regulation.
NONINSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway other than an instrument runway.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or body politic, and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian or other representative.
RUNWAY: The paved surface of an airport landing strip.
STRUCTURE: An object constructed or installed by humans, including, but without
limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission lines
   B.    ZONES
   In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are created and
established certain zones which include all of the land lying within the
instrument approach zones, noninstrument approach zones, transition zones,
horizontal zones and conical zone. The areas and zones are shown on the town
municipal airport zoning map, which is incorporated by reference and made a
part hereof. The various zones are established and defined as follows.
INSTRUMENT APPROACH ZONE
   An instrument approach zone is established at each end of the instrument
runway for instrument landings and take-offs. The instrument approach zones
shall have a width of 1,000 feet at a distance of 200 feet beyond each end of
the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at a
distance of 50,200 feet beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
NONINSTRUMENT APPROACH ZONE
   A noninstrument approach zone is established at each end of all
noninstrument runways on the town municipal airport for noninstrument landings
and take-offs. The noninstrument approach zone shall have a width of 250 feet
at a distance of 200 feet beyond each end of the runway, widening thereafter
uniformly to a distance of 10,200 feet beyond each end of the runway, its
centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
TRANSITION ZONES
   Transition zones are established adjacent to each instrument and
noninstrument runway and approach zone as indicated on the zoning map.
Transition zones symmetrically located on either side of runways, have variable
widths as shown on the zoning map. Transition zones extend outward from a line
125 feet on either side of the center line of the noninstrument runway, for the
length of the runway plus 200 feet on each end; and 500 feet on either side of
the center line of the instrument runway, for the length of the runway plus 200
feet on each end, and are parallel and level with the runway center lines. The
transition zones along the runways slope upward and outward one foot vertically
for each seven feet horizontally to the point where they intersect the surface
of the horizontal zone. Further, transition zones are established adjacent to
both instrument and noninstrument approach zones for the entire length of the
approach zones. These transition zones have variable widths, as shown on the
zoning map. The transition zones flare symmetrically with either side of the
runway approach zones from the base of the zones and slope upward and outward
at the rate of one foot vertically for each seven feet horizontally to the
points where they intersect the surfaces of the horizontal and conical zones.
Additionally, transition zones are established adjacent to the instrument
approach zone where it projects through and beyond the limits of the conical
zone, extending a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of
the instrument approach zones at right angles to the continuation of the center
line of the runway.
HORIZONTAL ZONE
   A horizontal zone is established as the area within a circle with its center
at the airport reference point and having a radius of 5,000 feet. The
horizontal zone does not include the instrument and noninstrument approach
zones and the transition zones.
CONICAL ZONE
    A conical zone is established as the area that commences at the periphery
of the horizontal zone and extends outward there from a distance of 3,000 feet.
The conical zone does not include the instrument approach zones and transition
zones.
   C.    HEIGHT LIMITATIONS
      1.    Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure or tree
shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or maintained in any zone created by
this chapter to a height in excess of the height limit established for the
zone. The height limitations are computed from the established airport
elevation and are established for each of the zones in question as follows.
INSTRUMENT APPROACH ZONE
   One foot in height for each 50 feet in horizontal distance beginning at a
point 200 feet from the end of the instrument runway and extending to a
distance of 10,200 feet from the end of the runway; thence one foot in height
for each 40 feet in horizontal distance to a point 50,200 feet from the end of
the runway; thence one foot in height for each 40 feet.
NONINSTRUMENT APPROACH ZONES
   One foot in height for each 40 feet in horizontal distance beginning at a
point 200 feet from the end of the noninstrument runway and extending to a
point 10,200 feet from the end of the runway.
TRANSITION ZONES
   One foot in height for each seven feet in horizontal distance beginning at
any point 125 feet normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of
noninstrument runways extending 200 feet beyond each end thereof, and 500 feet
normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of the instrument runway,
extending 200 feet beyond each end thereof, extending to a height of 150 feet
above the airport elevation which is 37.50 feet above mean sea level. In
addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits of one foot
vertical height for each seven feet horizontal distance measured from the edges
of all approach zones for the entire length of the approach zones and extending
upward and outward to the points where they intersect the horizontal or conical
surfaces. Further, where the instrument approach zone projects through and
beyond the conical zone, a height limit of one foot for each seven feet of
horizontal distance shall be maintained beginning at the edge of the instrument
approach zone and extending a distance of 5,000 feet from the edge of the
instrument approach zone measured normal to the centerline of the runway
extended.
HORIZONTAL ZONE
   One hundred fifty feet above the airport elevation or a height of 187.50
feet above mean sea level.
CONICAL ZONE
   One foot in height for each 20 feet of horizontal distance beginning at the
periphery of the horizontal zone, extending to a height of 337.3 feet above the
airport elevation.
      2.    Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the
more restrictive limitation shall prevail.
      3.    Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the
growth, construction or maintenance of any tree or structure to a height up to
45 feet above the surface of the land.
   D.    USE RESTRICTIONS
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as to create
electrical interference with radio communication between the airport and
aircraft, make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights
and others, result in glare in the flyers using the airport, impair visibility
in the vicinity of the airport or otherwise endanger the landing, taking-off
and maneuvering of aircraft.
   E.   NONCONFORMING USES
      1.   REGULATIONS NOT RETROACTIVE
      The regulations prescribed by this chapter shall not be construed to
require the removal, lowering or other changes or alteration of any structure
or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of this
chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use.
Nothing herein contained shall require and change in the construction,
alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of
which was begun prior to the effective date of this chapter, and is diligently
prosecuted.
      2.    MARKING AND LIGHTING
      Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this section, the owner of any
nonconforming structure or tree is required to permit the installation,
operation and maintenance thereon of the markers and lights as shall be deemed
necessary by the airport engineers, to indicate to the operators of aircraft in
the vicinity of the airport, the presence of the airport hazards. The markers
and lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the
town.
   F.    PERMITS
      1. FUTURE USES
         a)    Except as specifically provided in Subsections (i-iii)
hereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no structure
or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established in any zone
created unless a permit therefore shall have been applied for and granted. Each
application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is
desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether
the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the regulations herein
prescribed. If the determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted.
         In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and the
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when because of terrain,
land contour or topographic features the tree or structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for the zone.
         In areas lying within the limits of the instrument and noninstrument
approach zones but at a horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from
each end of the runways, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure
less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground except when the tree or
structure would extend above the height limit prescribed for the instrument or
noninstrument approach zone.
         In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree
or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground except when
the tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or topographic features
would extend above the height limit prescribed for the transition zones.
         b)    Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration or
growth of any structure or tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this chapter, except as set forth in Section
4.8(C), HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
      2.    EXISTING USES
      No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation
of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure or tree to be
made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to air navigation, than it
was on the effective date of this chapter or any amendments thereto or than it
is when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all
applications for such a permit shall be granted.
      3.   NONCONFORMING USES ABANDONED OR DESTROYED
      Wherever the Town Council determines that a nonconforming structure or
tree has been abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or
decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow the structure or tree to
exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations.
      4.    VARIANCES
      Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure, or
permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the Board of
Adjustment for a variance from the regulations. The variances shall be allowed
where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the
regulations would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and
the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest, but will do
substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter.
      5.   HAZARD MARKING AND LIGHTING
      Any permit or variance granted may, if the action is deemed advisable to
effectuate the purpose of this chapter and be reasonable in the circumstances,
be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question
to permit the town at its own expense, to install, operate and maintain thereon
the markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence
of an airport hazard.
   G.    ENFORCEMENT
   It shall be the duty of the Planning Director to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to the Planning Director upon a form furnished by him or her. Applications
required by this chapter to be submitted to the Planning Director shall be
promptly considered and granted or denied by him or her. Applications for
action by the Board of Adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the
Planning Director.
   H.   APPEALS
      1.    Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of
the Planning Director made in his or her administration of this chapter, if of
the opinion that a decision of the Planning Director is an improper application
of these regulations, may appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
      2.    All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the Planning
Director a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Planning
Director shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      3.    An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Planning Director certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed except by the order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the
agency from which the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
      4.    The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
      The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make the order,
requirement, decision or determination, as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.
JUDICIAL REVIEW
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, may appeal to the County Superior Court as provided in G.S. §
160D-1402 of the Public Laws of the state.
   J.   PENALTY
   Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order or rules,
promulgated hereunder shall be remedied and/or punished under Chapter 9,
ENFORCEMENT.
4.9   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   A.    STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
      1.   STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
      The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Part 6, Article 21
of Chapter 143; Chapter 160D; and Article 8 of Chapter 160A of the North
Carolina General Statutes, delegated to local governmental the responsibility
units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare of its citizenry.
       2   FINDINGS OF FACT
         (a)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of Wallace are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
         (b)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other
hazards.
      3.   STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
      It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
         (a)   restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging
increases in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
          (b)    require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
that serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
          (c)    control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which are involved in the
accommodation of floodwaters;
          (d)    control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development
that may increase erosion or flood damage; and
          (e)    prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to
other lands.
      4.   OBJECTIVES
      The objectives of this chapter are:
         (a)    to protect human life and health;
          (b)    to minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood
control projects;
          (c)    to minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated
with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
          (d)    to minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
          (e)    to minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e.
water and gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and
bridges) that are located in flood prone areas;
          (f)    to help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound
use and development of flood prone areas; and
          (g)    to ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in
a Special Flood Hazard Area.
   B.    DEFINITIONS
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this ordinance it’s most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE): a structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING): an extension or increase in the floor area
or height of a building or structure.
APPEAL: a request for a review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of any provision of this ordinance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: a designated Zone AO on a community's Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one (1) to three
(3) feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: see “Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)”
BASEMENT: any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BASE FLOOD: the flood having a one (1) percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): a determination of the water surface elevations of
the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has not
been provided in a “Special Flood Hazard Area”, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a Federal or State or other source using
FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
“Freeboard”, establishes the “Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation”.
BUILDING: see “Structure”
CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY: a building, portion of a building, or exterior area
adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
DEVELOPMENT: any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
DISPOSAL: as defined in NCGS 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on any land
or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid waste may
enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters,
including groundwaters.
ELEVATED BUILDING: a non-basement building which has its lowest elevated floor
raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
ENCROACHMENT: the advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings,
permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: a
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the original effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
       (1)   the overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)    the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters
from any source.
FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM): an official map of a community, issued
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the Special Flood Hazard
Areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a supplement to
and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): an official map of a community, issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the Special Flood
Hazard Areas have been defined as Zone A.
FLOOD INSURANCE means the insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): an official map of a community, issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the Special Flood Hazard
Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): an examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate), flood
hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The Flood Insurance Study report includes Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if
published.
FLOOD PRONE AREA see “Floodplain”
FLOODPLAIN: any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: the individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this ordinance, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: the operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: this ordinance and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations, in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
FLOODPROOFING: any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage
to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
FLOODWAY: the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1) foot.
FLOOD ZONE: a geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
FREEBOARD: the height added to the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater that
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization on
the watershed The Base Flood Elevation plus the freeboard establishes the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY: a facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY: as defined in NCGS 130A, Article 9, a facility for
the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or
disposal of hazardous waste.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: any structure that is:
       (a)    listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the US Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (b)    certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (c)    individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
      (d)    certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program
CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT (CLG) PROGRAMS: approved by the US Department of the
Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of Cultural
Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the
requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended in
1980.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): the elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
LOWEST FLOOR: lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access, or limited storage in an area other than a basement area is
not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such an enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this ordinance.
MANUFACTURED HOME: a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
manufactured home does not include a recreational vehicle.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MARKET VALUE: the building value, not including the land value and that of any
accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: for purposes of this ordinance, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which Base Flood
Elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of the original version of the community’s Flood
Damage Prevention Ordinance and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA: the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1)
foot as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
POST-FIRM: construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map for the area.
PRE-FIRM: construction or other development for which the start of construction
occurred before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for
the area.
PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND: that at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE: anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): a vehicle, which is:
       (a)    built on a single chassis;
       (b)    400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (c)    designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
       (d)    designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Reference Level is the top of the lowest floor for structures within Special
Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99 or AO.
REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION: the Base Flood Elevation plus the
Freeboard. In Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two (2) feet of
freeboard. In Special Flood Hazard Areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
REMEDY A VIOLATION: to bring the structure or other development into compliance
with State and community floodplain management regulations, or, if this is not
possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts may be
reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the ordinance or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing Federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
RIVERINE: relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SALVAGE YARD: any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY: as defined in NCGS 130A-290(a)(35), any facility
involved in the disposal of solid waste.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE: as defined in NCGS 130A-290(a)(36), any place at
which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or any
other method.
 SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): the land in the floodplain subject to a one
(1%) percent or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as
determined in Section 4.9(C)(2) of this ordinance.
START OF CONSTRUCTION INCLUDES SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: a walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas, liquid,
or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of substantial
improvement. Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
       (a)    any correction of existing violations of State or community
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or,
       (b)    any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
VARIANCE: a grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance.
 VIOLATION: the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in Section 4.9(D)-(E) is presumed to
be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE): the height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE: a lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other topographic
feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse
includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may
occur.
   C.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      1.   LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES
      This ordinance shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
jurisdiction, including Extra-Territorial Jurisdictions (ETJs) if applicable,
of Wallace and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing
body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
      2.   BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying, most current, Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), which are adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this ordinance.
       3.    DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTIONS
      In general, no development is allowed in the Special Flood Hazard Area
unless one or more of the following are met:
         (a)    The site has an approved, valid site specific vesting plan
triggering a vested right and the plan was approved prior to the effective date
of this ordinance, including any subsequent amendments thereto.
          (b)    The development is for roads, greenways, pedestrian crossings,
park-related equipment, or public utilities and facilities such as wastewater,
gas, electrical, and water systems that are located and constructed to minimize
flood damage. Structures for pedestrian crossings (e.g. footbridges, etc.),
playground equipment, and other similar items are also permitted.
       4.    COMPLIANCE
      No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
ordinance and other applicable regulations.
       5.    ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS
      This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
ordinance and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
       6.   INTERPRETATION
In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions shall
be:
         (a)    considered as minimum requirements;
          (b)    liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
          (c)    deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under State statutes.
       7.    WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY
      The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This ordinance does not imply that
land outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance shall not create
liability on the part of Wallace or by any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
       8   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION
      Violation of the provisions of this ordinance or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a violation under this ordinance, remedies and punishments described
in Chapter 9, Enforcement shall be applied.
    D.    ADMINISTRATION
      1.    DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
      The Zoning Officer, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain
Administrator”, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this ordinance.
       2.    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
      The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
         (a)    Review all floodplain development applications and issue
permits for all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to
assure that the requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied.
          (b)    Advise permittee that additional Federal or State permits
(Wetlands, Endangered Species, Erosion and Sedimentation Control, Riparian
Buffers, Mining, etc.) may be required, and require that copies of such permits
be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain development permit.
          (c)    Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department
of Crime Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State
Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
          (d)    Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished.
          (e)    Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment
areas unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of Section
4.9(E)(4) are met.
          (f)    Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the Special Flood Hazard Areas (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make
the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in this Section.
         (g)    When the lowest ground elevation of a parcel or structure in a
Special Flood Hazard Area is above the Base Flood Elevation, advise the
property owner of the option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from
FEMA. Maintain a copy of the Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in
the floodplain development permit file.
         (h)    Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this ordinance and make these records available for public
inspection.
          (i)    Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work
pursuant to a floodplain development permit progresses, the floodplain
administrator shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to
ensure that the work is being done according to the provisions of the local
ordinance and the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the floodplain
administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on
any premises within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour
for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
         (j)    Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this ordinance, the floodplain administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor.
         (k)    Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The
floodplain administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason
(s) for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure
from the approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure
to comply with the requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements
or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may
also be revoked.
         (l)    Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The floodplain administrator
and each member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
          (m)    Follow through with corrective procedures of Section
4.9(D)(3). 
         (n)    Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
          (o)    Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited
to, the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with Section
4.9(C)(2) of this ordinance, including any revisions thereto including Letters
of Map Change, issued by FEMA. Notify State and FEMA of mapping needs.
         (p)    Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including
Letters of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) and Letters of Map Revision
(LOMR).
       3.    CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES
         (a)    VIOLATIONS TO BE CORRECTED: When the floodplain administrator
finds violations of applicable State and local laws, it shall be his or her
duty to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The
owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited
in such notification.
         (b)    ACTIONS IN EVENT OF FAILURE TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION: If the
owner of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action,
the floodplain administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified
or registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
            i.   that the building or property is in violation of the Flood
Damage Prevention Ordinance;
             ii.   that a hearing will be held before the floodplain
administrator at a designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days
after the date of the notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be
heard in person or by counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining
to the matter; and,
             iii.   that following the hearing, the floodplain administrator
may issue an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove
fill as appears appropriate.
          (c)   ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION: If, upon a hearing held
pursuant to the notice prescribed above, the floodplain administrator shall
find that the building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance, they shall issue an order in writing to the owner,
requiring the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not
less than sixty (60) calendar days, nor more than one-hundred-eighty (180)
calendar days. Where the floodplain administrator finds that there is imminent
danger to life or other property, they may order that corrective action be
taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
         (d)   APPEAL: Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the floodplain administrator and the clerk
within ten (10) days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of
an appeal, the order of the floodplain administrator shall be final. The local
governing body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
          (e)   FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER: If the owner of a building or
property fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no
appeal has been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished at the discretion of the court.
       4.    VARIANCE PROCEDURES
         (a)    The Board of Adjustment as established by Wallace, hereinafter
referred to as the “appeal board”, shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this ordinance.
          (b)    Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may
appeal such decision to the Court, as provided in Chapter 7A of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
          (c)    Variances may be issued for:
            i.   the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
             ii.   functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in Section
4.9(B) of this ordinance, provided provisions of Section
4.9(D)(4)(i)(ii, iii, & v) have been satisfied, and such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages.
            iii.   any other type of development, provided it meets the
requirements stated in this section.
          (d)    In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this ordinance, and:
             i.   the danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to
the injury of others;
             ii.   the danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
             iii.   the susceptibility of the proposed facility and its
contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
             iv.   the importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
             v.   the necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as
defined under Section
4.9(B) of this ordinance as a functionally dependent facility, where
applicable;
            vi.   the availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
            vii.   the compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            viii.   the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive
plan and floodplain management program for that area;
             ix.   the safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
             x.   the expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
             xi.   the costs of providing governmental services during and
after flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
         (e)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
          (f)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes
of this ordinance, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this ordinance.
          (g)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such
construction below the Base Flood Elevation increases risks to life and
property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
the Base Flood Elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
          (h)   The floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of North Carolina upon request.
          (i)   Conditions for Variances:
             i.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other Federal, State, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
             ii.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway
or non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
             iii.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that
the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
             iv.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
             v.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
                (a)   a showing of good and sufficient cause;
                (b)   a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
                (c)   a determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
    E.    PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
       1.    GENERAL STANDARDS
      If development is permitted in a Special Flood Hazard Areas the following
provisions are required:
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement of the structure.
          (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
          (c)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
          (d)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding. These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment,
water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter
panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators,
freezers, etc.), hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
          (e)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
         (f)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
          (g)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed
to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
          (h)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance, shall
meet the requirements of “new construction” as contained in this ordinance.
          (i)   Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the repair,
reconstruction, or replacement of a building or structure existing on the
effective date of this ordinance and located totally or partially within the
floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream setback, provided there is no
additional encroachment below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the
floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this ordinance.
         (j)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified according to Section
4.9(D)(2)(c) of this ordinance.
          (l)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
          (m)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
          (n)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
          (o)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by Federal or State law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
      2.    SPECIFIC STANDARDS
      In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data
has been provided, as set forth in Section
4.9(C)(2), the following provisions, in addition to Section
4.9(E)(1), are required:
          (a)   RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in Section
4.9(B) of this ordinance.
          (b)   NON-RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in Section
4.9(B) of this ordinance. Structures located in A, AE and A1-30 Zones may be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with Section
4.9(E)(8)(c). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in Section
4.9(D)(2)(c), along with the operational and maintenance plans..
          (c)   MANUFACTURED HOMES
             i.   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so
that the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in Section
4.9(B) of this ordinance.
             ii.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement, either by engineer certification, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to NCGS 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty-six (36) inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty-six (36) inches in height, an engineering
certification is required.
             iii.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall
meet the requirements of Section
4.9(E)(2)(d)(i-iii). 
             iv.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the floodplain administrator and the
local Emergency Management coordinator.
          (d)   ELEVATED BUILDINGS. Fully enclosed area, of new construction
and substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
             i.   shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
             ii.   shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials
below the regulatory flood protection elevation;
             iii.   shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1-30, flood
openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the
openings must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or
meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria;
               (a)    A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of
each enclosed area subject to flooding;
                (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least
one (1) square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
                (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each
enclosed area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically
enter and exit;
                (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no
higher than one (1) foot above the adjacent grade;
                (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
                (g)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
          (e)   ADDITIONS/IMPROVEMENTS
             i.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
               (a)   not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure.
                  (b)   a substantial improvement, both the existing structure
and the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
             ii.   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
             iii.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when
the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications
to the existing structure are:
                (a)   not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction.
                (b)   a substantial improvement, both the existing structure
and the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
            iv.   Where an independent perimeter load-bearing wall is provided
between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall be
considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
          (f)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. Recreational vehicles shall either:
             i.   be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
          (g)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. When accessory structures (sheds,
detached garages, etc.) are to be placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area,
the following criteria shall be met:
             i.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
             ii.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
             iii.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood
damage potential;
             iv.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
             v.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with Section
4.9(E)(1)(a); 
             vi.   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed
in accordance with Section
4.9(E)(1)(d); and
             vii.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with Section
4.9(E)(2)(d)(iii).
             An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with Section
4.9(D)(2)(c). 
       3.    RESERVED
      4.    FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS
      Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in Section
4.9(C)(2). The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous
areas due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry
debris and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to
standards outlined in Section
4.9(E)(1 & 2), shall apply to all development within such areas:
          (a)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated that:
            i.   the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood, based on hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice and presented to the floodplain administrator prior to issuance of
floodplain development permit, or
            ii.   a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been
approved by FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon
completion of the proposed encroachment.
          (b)   If Section
4.9(E)(6)(a) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of this ordinance.
          (c)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
             i.   the anchoring and the elevation standards of Section
4.9(E)(2)(c); and
             ii.   the no encroachment standard of Section
4.9(E)(6)(a).
    F.    LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
      1.    EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE
      This ordinance in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted January 8, 1987 as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this ordinance shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention
ordinance of Wallace enacted on January 8, 1987, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein are repealed.
      2.    EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
      Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the floodplain
administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this ordinance; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under
such outstanding permit within a period of six (6) months subsequent to the
date of issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
Chapter 5 – Use Standards
Table of Contents
   
5.1   Use Table
   
5.1.1   Table: Table Of Permitted Uses
   
5.2   Use-Specific Standards
5.1   USE TABLE
   A.   EXPLANATION OF USE TABLE STRUCTURE
   For each base zoning district established in this Ordinance, Table
5.1.1, Table of Permitted Uses, lists land uses and indicates whether
individual uses are:
      1.   Permitted by right;
      2.   Permitted with a Special Use Permit;
      3.   Permitted as a combination use.
      The permitted uses within an overlay zoning district shall be those
allowed in the underlying base zoning district. Uses not listed in the Table of
Permitted Uses, Table
5.1.1, are prohibited.
   B.   USES PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS
      1.   Within all districts there are certain uses permitted as a matter of
right that are not specifically included within Table
5.1.1, Table of Permitted Uses. The following uses are allowed in all districts
without a Zoning Compliance Permit provided they meet other applicable
requirements of this Ordinance:
         (a)   Above ground and buried utility lines for local distribution of
electricity, telephone, and cable television service; accessory and appurtenant
apparatus such as poles, guy wires, transformers and switching boxes. High
voltage transmission lines are not included in this exception.
         (b)   Temporary buildings and structures used in connection with the
construction of a permanent building.
         (c)   Off street parking as a required accessory use to a permitted
use.
         (d)   Public and private streets and roads and railroad rights-of-way.
         (e)   Sanitary sewer collection lines, water, gas, and liquid fuel
distribution lines, and any necessary on-line pumping stations.
      2.   The following uses are also permitted in all zoning districts upon
the issuance of a Zoning Compliance permit documenting compliance with relevant
provisions of this Ordinance:
         (a)   Fences
         (b)   Accessory buildings in residential districts that are fifty
square feet or larger. This includes but is not limited to storage buildings,
garages, carports, and any structure designed to provide weather protection to
people, animals, supplies, household items, vehicles or equipment.
   C.   COMBINATION USES
      1.   A combination use is a use consisting of a combination on one lot of
two or more principal uses separately listed in the Table of Permitted Uses.
Combination uses shall be permissible on a lot only if each component principal
use is permissible in the district where the lot is located.
      2.   When a combination use consists of two or more principal uses each
of which requires a different type of permit (Zoning Compliance Permits only or
Special Use Permit) then the permit authorizing the combination use shall be:
         (a)   A Special Use Permit if any of the principal uses combined
requires a Special Use Permit.
         (b)   Only a Zoning Compliance Permit in all other cases.
      3.   When two principal uses are combined, the total amount of parking
required for the combination use shall be determined by adding together the
amount of parking required for each individual principal use according to the
relative amount of space occupied by that use, taking into consideration any
shared parking allowed under this Ordinance.
   D.   ACCESSORY USES
      1.   The following list provides examples of expected accessory uses in
residential zoning districts. This list is not exhaustive. When determining
whether an activity is an allowed accessory use, the definition of accessory
use and the impact of the activity shall be considered. Zoning Compliance
Permits are not needed for allowed accessory uses. Items not included on this
list may be allowed as combination uses in compliance with Section
5.1(C)(2).
         (a)   Yard and/or garage sales for residents of residential districts
to conduct no more than six (6) yard sales per year neither of which exceed two
days in length.
         (b)    Parking/storage of unused boat/RV
         (c)   Occupation of RV/tent by guests or minor residents for no longer
than 2 weeks in 60 any day period
         (d)   Occupation of RV during construction of new or major renovation
of single-family residence as long as the building permit is valid
         (e)   Display of a single vehicle for sale at any one time, not to
exceed 2 per year
         (f)   Placement of movable storage unit used for storage only, not to
exceed 60 days in any 180 day period
         (g)   Tree houses, play structures, trampoline, or other residential
recreation structures that are not permanently affixed to the ground
         (h)   Hobbies & recreational activities of a non-commercial nature,
which do not fall within the definition of a “home occupation”
         (i)   Garden statuary, garden structures (excluding storage
buildings), and art may be located in the back area, provided the footprint of
such features does not exceed the permit threshold of fifty square feet in
area.
         (j)   Private or public events that do not meet permit thresholds
pursuant to a separate permit process established in the Town Code
         (k)   Agricultural activities for the personal use of the resident or
in support of a licensed home occupation including but not limited to growing
herbs, fruits and vegetables, raising fowl or livestock consistent with Chapter
90 of the Town of Wallace Code of Ordinances.
      2.   The following list provides examples of expected accessory uses in
non-residential zoning districts. This list is not exhaustive. When determining
whether an activity is an allowed accessory use, the definition of accessory
use and the impact of the activity shall be considered. Zoning Compliance
Permits are not needed for allowed accessory uses. Items not included on this
list may be allowed as combination used in compliance with Section
5.1(C).
         (a)   Special events permitted pursuant to a separate permitting
process established in the Town Code
         (b)   Special events that do not exceed the permit thresholds for
event process in town code
         (c)   Parking of storage containers, wholly behind the building in
locations not needed for required parking or traffic circulation, and screened
from adjoining properties
         (d)   Outdoor dining or customer seating when provided in a manner and
location that is not assigned or required for another purpose.
5.1.1 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES
ID    Use R-6 R-6 MH R-8 R-10 R-15 R-20 MH RA- 20 CB HB NB I
5.1.1 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES
                                                    R-      R-  R-  R-  RA-
ID    Use                                       R-6 6   R-8 10  15  20  20  CB  HB  NB I
                                                    MH              MH
2401  Adult Day Care                                                        P   P
2102  Adult Use                                                                 SUP
2203  Alcoholic Beverages Packaged Retail Sales                             P   P
4704  Artisan Studio                                                P   P   P   P   P
2405  Bank & Financial Institution                                          P   P   P
2306  Bar                                                                   SUP SUP
1507  Bed and Breakfast Facility                P   P   P                           P
4608  Building/Trade Contractor’s office                          P   P   P   P   P  P
1209  Campgrounds                                                   SUP SUP
1210  Cemetery                                                      SUP SUP
1211  Cemetery, Faith Based                                         SUP SUP
4912  Child Day Care                            P   P   P   P   P   P   P   SUP SUP P
4913  Church, Place of worship                  P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P   P
2414  Club or Lodge                                                         P   P   P
4915  Community Center                          P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
2216  Distillery/Brewery                                                    SUP SUP
2417  Drive-up Window                                                       P   P   P
2418  Dry Cleaning or Laundry Plant                                         P   P   P  P
1919  Dwelling: Accessory                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
1920  Dwelling: Attached (1-4 units)            P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
1921  Dwelling: Attached (5-19 units)           SUP     SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP
1922  Dwelling: Attached (20+ units)            SUP     SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP
1223  Dwelling: Mobile Home A                       P               P
1224  Dwelling: Mobile Home B                       P               P
1025  Dwelling: Mobile Home C
1926  Dwelling: Single-family                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
2127  Electronic Gaming Operation                                               P
2328  Event Center                                                          SUP SUP
1929  Extended Care Facility                    P   P   P   P   P   P   P
1830  Family Care Home                          P   P   P   P   P   P   P
1731  Family Child Care Home                    P   P   P   P   P   P   P
1232  Farm, Bonafide                                                P   P
4533  Farmer's Market                                               P   P   P   P
2234  Flee Market                                                               P
2335  Flex Space                                                            P   P
2336  Funeral Home                                                          P   P
2537  Gallery/Museum                                                        P   P   P
1738  Garage (Private, Residential Use)         P   P   P   P   P   P   P
4939  Government Facilities                     P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P
1240  Greenhouses/Nursery                                           P   P
1341  Group Care Facility                       SUP SUP SUP
2442  Health Care Facility                                                  P   P   P
2443  Health/Fitness Club                                                   P   P   P
4944  Home Occupation                           P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P
2145  Hospitals                                                                 P
2446  Hotels & Motels                                                       P   P   P
3147  Junkyard/Outside Storage of Junked or                                            SUP
      Wrecked Motor Vehicles
1248  Kennels, Boarding                                             SUP SUP
4949  Library                                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
2350  Mail Order Houses                                                     P   P   P
2351  Manufacturing Complex                                                 SUP SUP    P
2452  Meeting Facility                                                      SUP P
1253  Mobile Home Park                              SUP             SUP
2454  Motor Vehicle Fuel Station                                            P   P      P
2355  Motor Vehicle Maintenance, & Service                                      P      P
2256  Motor Vehicle Repair                                                      P      P
2257  Motor Vehicle Sales & Rentals                                         P   P
2258  Nightclub s                                                               SUP
2459  Offices not providing direct services to                              P   P      P
      clients via walk in
2460  Offices providing direct services to walk                             P   P   P
      in clients
2161  Outlet sales                                                              P
4962  Park, Athletic or Community               P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
4963  Park, Cultural or Natural                 P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
4964  Park, Neighborhood                        P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
2565  Parking as Principal Use, Surface or                                  P   P   P  P
      Structure
2366  Performance Facility                                                  SUP P
2567  Personal Service Business                                             P   P   P
2268  Personal Vehicle Sales                                                P   P
2269  Petroleum Products (storage &                                             SUP    SUP
      distribution)
3170  Processing Facility                                                              P
4971  Public Safety Services                    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P
4972  Public Utilities                          P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P
4973  Recreational Facilities                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
2374  Recycling Materials Collections Center                                P   P
2375  Research Facility                                                     P   P      P
2476  Restaurant A                                                          P   P   P
2477  Restaurant B                                                          P   P   P
2478  Restaurant C                                                          P   P   P
2279  Retail sales/rentals of goods with                                        P
      outside display/storage of merchandise
4780  Retail sales/rentals of goods within                                  P   P   P  P
      wholly enclosed structure
4481  Rooming/Board house                       P   P   P                           P
2482  School: Art & Music                                                   P   P   P
2483  School: Dance, Martial Arts                                           P   P   P
4984  School: Elementary, Middle & Secondary    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
4585  School: Higher Education                                      P   P   P   P   P
4586  School: Vocational                                            P   P   P   P   P
4387  Solar Energy Facility                                         SUP SUP            SUP
2388  Storage & Warehousing: Inside building,                               P   P      P
      excluding explosives & hazardous wastes
3189  Storage & Warehousing: Outside                                                   P
2290  Storage & Warehousing: Self                                               P      P
4691  Telecommunication Tower, 200’ or taller                     SUP SUP            P
4692  Telecommunication Tower, less than 200’                     SUP SUP            P
      tall
2293  Transit Passenger Terminal                                                P
4994  Transmission Lines                        P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P
2295  Vehicle Restoration                                                       P      P
2496  Veterinarian/Animal Hospital                                      P       P   P
2497  Wholesale sales, indoor                                           SUP P   P   P
2198  Wholesale sales, with outdoor storage/                                    P
      display
4999  Yard Sales (limit 6 per year)             P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 
5.2   USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS
   A.   ADULT USE
   Adult uses as defined in N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-202.10 are recognized as
having certain serious objectionable operational characteristics and a
deleterious effect on adjacent areas. Special regulation of these uses is
necessary to ensure that their adverse effects do not contribute to degradation
or decline of surrounding areas. The primary intent of the following standards
is to prevent negative impacts on residential areas and particular uses.
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of adult uses:
         (a)   No building to be occupied as an adult use shall be established
within five hundred (500) feet of a residentially zoned lot line. No adult use
shall be located less than one thousand (1,000) feet from any church, school,
park, playground, synagogue, convent, library, or other areas where large
numbers of minors regularly travel or congregate.
         (b)   All windows, doors, openings, entries, etc. for all adult uses
shall be located, covered, buffered, or otherwise treated so that views into
the interior of the establishment are not possible from any public or semi-
public area, street or way.
         (c)   No adult use shall be located within a one thousand (1,000) foot
radius of another adult use.
         (d)   The proposed methods of soundproofing the buildings must be
sufficient to reduce noise from the interior of the building. The noise level
at the property line shall not exceed forty-five (45) decibels.
         (e)   There must be sufficient number of employees to maintain the
safe and orderly operation of the establishment.
         (f)   Live entertainment and amplified music shall cease no later than
12:00 a.m. (midnight)
   B.   BED AND BREAKFAST HOME
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of this use:
         (a)   Each unit within a bed and breakfast establishment shall have
direct access to a hall or exterior door.
         (b)   The applicant shall provide evidence that the Fire Marshal has
reviewed and approved the fire protection plan.
         (c)   If a state, county or city license or permit is required to
operate such a facility, the standards necessary to qualify for such a permit
have been met; no Zoning Permit or Certificate of Occupancy will be issued
until the Town receives proof that all State, county, and/or other local
permits have been approved.
   C.   BILLBOARDS
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
            (a)   All billboards (except those in Subsection (b) below) are
subject to the Billboard Overlay District [See Section
4.6(B)]
            (b)   Billboards along the I-40 Corridor are exempt from these
requirements.
            (b)   No two billboards shall be spaced less than 2,000 feet apart
on the same side of the roadway on all streets and rights-of-way where they are
allowed. In addition, no two billboard structures shall be placed within 1,000
feet in either direction of the nearest point on the opposite side of the same
right-of-way from an existing billboard. When determining the distance between
signs the measurement shall be from the nearest points of the respective signs
(including braces, overhang, etc.).
            (c)   No billboards shall be allowed within 750 feet of the center
point of an intersection where both roads allow billboards nor within 750 feet
of the interior apex of an angle intersection, where both roads allow
billboards.
            (d)   All billboard structures, including overhangs and all other
components, shall be set back at least 20 feet from the nearest road right-of-
way.
            (e)   The maximum allowable height for a billboard shall be 40
feet.
            (f)   No one copy area of any billboard structure shall exceed four
hundred square feet, and there shall be no more than one copy area facing any
one side of the traveled roadway on any sign structure.
            (g)   All billboards shall be plainly marked with the name of the
person, firm, or corporation erecting and maintaining such sign and shall have
affixed the firm number issued for said sign by the building inspector.
            (h)   All owners of billboards are required to obtain and maintain
an annual billboard permit in order for the billboard to be considered a
conforming use. Billboard permits shall only be issued for billboards that are
in complete conformance with the requirements of this ordinance. If a billboard
permit expires, the billboard shall be deemed non-conforming until a new permit
is obtained. For the purposes of this subsection, a billboard shall be
considered “destroyed” if damaged to an extent that the cost of repairing the
billboard to its former stature or replacing it with an equivalent billboard
equals or exceeds 50 percent of the tax value, as listed in the Duplin County
Tax Office, of the billboard so damaged.
   D.   CEMETERY
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used in deciding upon an
application for approval of this use:
         (a)   Proof that the requirements of the North Carolina General
Statutes Chapter 65 the standards of the North Carolina Cemetery Commission
shall be met, to the extent that they apply to the applicant entity.
         (b)   There shall be adequate space within the site for the parking
and maneuvering of the funeral cortege at each proposed burial site.
         (c)   The proposed landscaping shall provide visual obstruction from
adjacent property through new planting or existing vegetation. At a minimum,
this visual obstruction shall be equal to a Type A buffer.
         (d)   The proposed landscaping shall show the balance between
providing an aesthetically pleasing arrangement of plots, amenities, driveways
and landscaping and providing a facility that is safe for visitation and long
term protection of grave markers.
         (e)   The minimum lot size for any cemetery not co-locating on a
parcel occupied by the place of worship of the applicant faith-based
organization shall meet the minimum lot size for the zoning district in which
it is located.
         (f)   The site for a proposed cemetery for a faith-based organization
shall be located within one-half mile of the site the applicant organization
uses as its place of worship.
         (g)   The site shall have frontage on Town or State maintained road.
         (h)   All interior vehicular access and maneuvering space shall be
improved with pervious, semi-pervious or impervious surfaces which can be
maintained to provide safe and consistent passage.
         (i)   No interments shall take place within thirty (30) feet of any
lot line.
         (j)   The applicant has provided information sufficient to the permit
issuing authority regarding guarantee of perpetual maintenance and the length
of time the proposed cemetery will have lots available for sale.
   E.   CHILD DAY CARE
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATIONChild day care centers, including pre-
schools, shall be licensed as a child care center by the State, shall comply
with all state regulations for child care centers, and must satisfy the
following standards:
         (a)   Proof that a license from the State of North Carolina has been
applied for. A copy of the approved license shall be provided to the Planning
Department within 30 days of the Certificate of Occupancy for any approved
Child Day Care requiring a license. No unconditional Certificate of Occupancy
may be issued until a copy of all required state licenses have been issued.
         (b)   If not located in a stand-alone building, a child day care
center shall be located on the first floor of a principal structure, and must
be segregated and secured (including the restrooms) from the remaining portion
of the building in which it is located
         (c)   Child day care centers shall not be established within one
thousand (1,000) feet of any adult uses nor within five hundred (500) feet of
any bar or nightclub.
         (d)   Outdoor recreation areas associated with the facility must meet
the State’s requirement for the licensing level being sought for the facility,
and must satisfy the fencing and buffering requirements with particular
attention paid to protecting the privacy of adjacent property owners and to
maintaining the character of a residential neighborhood.
         (e)   All required parking spaces shall be located off the street
right-of-way. In addition, safe and adequate access shall be provided from the
parking spaces to the building and to the street.
   F.   CHURCH OR PLACE OF WORSHIP
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATIONThe following specific standards shall be
used in deciding upon an application for approval of uses in this category:
         (a)   The written description of the operation indicates compliance
with the stated, applied for use and that use is permitted by right or special
use permit within the zoning district.
         (b)   The lot area is of sufficient size that all required parking,
access, yard areas, and screens are provided without any variance to the stated
standards of this Ordinance. A combination of on-street, on-site, and shared
parking may be allowed with the approval of the permit issuing authority.
         (c)   Structures, driveways, and other significant physical features
within 100 feet of the development area of this project are protected from
adverse impacts as required by this ordinance.
   G.   COMMUNITY CENTER
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION   The following specific standards shall be
used to evaluate an application for approval of this use:
         (a)   Evidence from the owners or operators that the facility will be
operated by a non-profit organization. The identification numbers for such non-
profit organization from the North Carolina Department of Revenue and the
Internal Revenue Service shall be provided to the Town.
         (b)   No structure associated with outdoor recreation activities shall
be situated within the setback required for the district in which the use
occurs. Such structures include but are not limited to: back stops, basketball
or football or soccer goals, pavement for tennis or basketball courts and
batting cages.
         (c)   Floor plans must show adequate meeting areas and that the
bathroom facilities are adequate for the type of facility and the number of
participants expected, as determined by the permit issuing authority.
         (d)   The minimum lot area shall be one acre, and shall be adequate
for the improvements proposed or required, as determined by the permit-issuing
authority.
         (e)   The hours of operation of outdoor activities shall not adversely
affect the residential character of the surrounding residential neighborhoods.
   H.   DRIVE-UP WINDOW
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of this use.
         (a)   The site plan shows that there is adequate vehicular and
pedestrian circulation space around the building in addition to the required
stacking spaces (for purposes of this section a “stacking space” equals one car
length, or approximately twenty feet). The required number of stacking spaces
shown must be usable and must be located outside any public road right-of-way.
In the case of uses not specified in this Ordinance, the permit issuing
authority shall determine whether the number of proposed stacking spaces is
adequate for the intended use.
         (b)   The site plan shows that the circulation pattern is a one-way
system that provides a separation between the drive-up window customers and
other customers, and that there is adequate room for individuals to park and
maneuver safely in the parking lot.
         (c)   Drive-up windows and their menu boards shall not be located on
the primary or pedestrian-oriented facades of buildings.
         (d)   Financial institutions with drive-up windows shall be limited to
five (5) drive-up bays per building.
         (e)   Stacking spaces for drive-up areas shall not inhibit traffic
flow on the site.
         (f)   Restaurants are required to have six (6) stacking spaces per
window;
         (g)   Drive-up banks are required to have six (6) stacking spaces per
window;
         (h)   Dry cleaning and laundry services are required to have three (3)
stacking spaces per window.
   I.   DWELLING, ACCESSORY
      1.   New or existing accessory buildings may be used as dwelling units in
addition to the principal dwelling unit, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   One (1) accessory dwelling unit is permitted per lot, provided
that the unit per acre density is not greater than that allowed by right for
the zoning district. Units existing as of at time of original adoption of this
ordinance that do not meet the density limit may continue as non-conforming
uses
         (b)   Both structures meet all the applicable building setback
requirements.
         (c)   The accessory unit does not exceed fifty (50) percent of the
heated living area of the principal structure.
         (d)   Approval of the Duplin County Health Department for water and
sewage disposal facilities or the approval of the Town of Wallace for water or
sewer service, as applicable.
      2.   EFFICIENCY APARTMENTAn efficiency apartment must be located within a
principal single family dwelling, and must meet the following criteria:
         (a)   The efficiency apartment must be architecturally integrated with
the principal structure. Connection by breezeway, walkway or other artificial
means does not satisfy this requirement.
         (b)   The lot fronts on a public street;
         (c)   One of the units is occupied by the property owner;
         (d)   The efficiency apartment shall contain no more than one fourth
(1/4) of the gross floor area of the total dwelling; and
         (e)   The efficiency apartment must be inaccessible, or able to be
made inaccessible from the principal dwelling.
         (f)   Other situations with more than one dwelling unit within a
single structure are considered attached dwellings under this ordinance.
   J.   DWELLING, ATTACHED
      1.   CATEGORIES OF ATTACHED DWELLINGS
      This Ordinance hereby establishes the following attached dwelling use
types:
         (a)   Attached Dwellings Up to 4 Units, requiring administrative
approval;
         (b)   Attached Dwellings 5+ Units, requiring Special Use Permit
approval.
      2.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION   The following specific standards shall be
used to evaluate an application for approval of this use:
         (a)   The number of dwelling units per acre proposed is equal to or
less than the maximum number of units per acre permitted in the district in
which they are proposed, when calculated according to the rounding information
provided in Section
10.1, Rules of Measurement, Computation, and Exceptions.
         (b)   Site plans show compliance with the dimensional requirements for
the applicable Zoning District in which the attached dwelling unit is being
developed.
         (c)   For developments consisting of 5 or more dwelling units,
vehicular ingress and egress and exits for the development are directly off a
public road(s) which is either a collector or arterial street and meet the
driveway standards in Section
6.9, Driveway Connections. Up to 4 dwelling units are permissible on any public
street.
         (d)   The interior roads and parking areas shall meet the required
specifications included in Section
6.21, Streets.
         (e)   The project is served or is proposed to be served by public
water and sewer systems. The proposed distribution systems have been sized to
meet the demands of the project, including fire protection.
         (f)   The Fire Marshal has reviewed and approved in writing the fire
protection plan, including the location of fire hydrants.
         (g)   The utility plan has been reviewed and approved by the Public
Works Director and the State has approved the extension of the Town’s systems.
All utilities, including electrical, telephone, and cable television, are to be
installed underground.
         (h)   The lighting plan meets or exceeds the specification of this
Ordinance.
         (i)   The grading, storm drainage, and soil erosion and sedimentation
control plans have been reviewed and approved by the Public Works Director,
Planning Director, or consulting Engineer, as applicable.
         (j)   The pedestrian circulation minimizes the conflicts between
pedestrians and motor vehicles, and it provides convenient access to all common
areas and facilities and to public streets.
         (k)   The proposed trash container and recycling system meets the
requirements of this Ordinance and the policies of the Wallace Public Works
Department.
         (l)   The site plan shows the phasing, if any, of the development,
including any phases to be developed later. If a development is to be built in
phases, and complete plans for the succeeding phases are not available, then
the requirements in this section shall apply to each phase as if it were a
separate and discrete development. Further, when a development is built in
phases and includes improvements that are designed to relate to, benefit, or be
used by the entire development, (such as swimming pools or tennis courts), the
developer shall submit a schedule for completion of these improvements. All
common implements necessary to comply with the requirements of this Ordinance
for each phase must be completed before occupancy of a subsequent phase may
commence.
         (m)    An improvement must be scheduled and completed before the final
phase of the development is begun. The permit-issuing authority may, in special
cases (exclusive of financial hardship) authorize the applicant to commence the
intended use of the property or to occupy any building before these
improvements are installed provided that a performance bond or other security
is issued in accordance with G.S. 160D-804.1 as to an amount certified by the
applicant’s engineer to be 125% of the estimated cost to complete the work, and
in a form to the Town Attorney, is furnished.
      3.   Recreational Standards for attached dwellings
      For recreational standards, see Section
6.16, Recreational Sites.
      4.   Open Space Standards for attached dwellings
      For open space standards, see Section
6.13, Open Space.
      5.   Zoning District Specific Standards for attached dwellings
         (a)   Central Business (CB) District
            i.   It is the intent of these provisions to allow attached
dwelling developments on lots zoned Central Business in an effort to mix land
uses within the Central Business zone to the extent that it does not detract
from the function of the zone as a commercial center. It is not the intent of
this section to impede the location of retail establishments in the CB
district.
            ii.   Any lot within the CB zone may contain a single dwelling unit
along with a non-residential enterprise or as an individual use.
            iii.   Multiple dwelling units in an attached building are
permitted within the CB zone when:
            iv.   The lot is at least 10,000 square feet in area.
            v.   The ground floor area is used exclusively for non-residential
use(s), including at least one retail enterprise.
            vi.   A sidewalk exists within the adjacent public right-of-way or
will be constructed as part of the construction/conversion process.
   K.    DWELLING, MOBILE HOME
      1.   INTENTIt is the intent of this section to address the specific
criteria which must be met to place a mobile home or manufactured home within
the zoning jurisdiction of the Town of Wallace.
      2.   CLASSES OF MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOMESThis Ordinance recognizes
three (3) classes of mobile homes: Class A, Class B, and Class C. Homes which
do not meet the criteria set forth shall not be located within the Town's
jurisdiction.
         (a)   Dwelling, Mobile Home, Class ABefore issuing a Zoning Compliance
Permit for a Class A mobile home, the Planning Director shall certify the
following:
            i.   The pitch of the home's roof shall have a minimum vertical
rise of two (2) feet for each twelve (12) feet of horizontal run. The roof
shall be finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in residential
construction. The main portion of the building shall have a length not
exceeding four times its width. The minimum width shall be sixteen (16) feet.
            ii.   The exterior siding shall consist of wood, hardboard, or
aluminum (vinyl covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity
of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to
the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential construction.
            iii.   Each home shall either have a brick curtain wall or other
masonry foundation installed around the perimeter of the home before a
Certificate of Occupancy is issued.
            iv.   All transportation lights and towing apparatus shall be
removed before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued.
            v.   A deck or a porch of at least thirty-six (36) square feet in
size must be located on the front of the home and must include steps.
            vi.   Applicant shall provide documentation showing that the
proposed unit meets the requirements for a Class A designation. This
information shall be retained by the Planning Director.
         (b)   Dwelling, Mobile Home, Class BBefore issuing a Zoning Compliance
Permit for a Class B mobile home, the Planning Director shall certify that the
home meets the following standards:
            i.   The pitch of the home's roof shall have a minimum vertical
rise of two (2) feet for each twelve (12) feet of horizontal run. The roof
shall be finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in residential
construction. The minimum width shall be fourteen (14) feet.
            ii.   All transportation lights and towing apparatus shall be
removed before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued.
            iii.   Class B manufactured homes must be underpinned. This
underpinning may consist of vinyl or masonite materials manufactured for that
purpose OR the home may be placed on a permanent foundation of masonry
materials such as brick, block, or stone.
            iv.   The exterior siding shall consist of wood, hardboard, or
aluminum (vinyl covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity
of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to
the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential construction.
            v.   A deck or a porch of at least thirty-six (36) square feet in
size must be located on the front of the home and must include steps.
            vi.   A legal non-conforming Class B mobile home may be replaced
with a similar or higher class mobile home provided the replacement is
permitted within 180 days of the removal of the existing Class B mobile home.
The replacement mobile home may not increase any dimensional non-conformity
enjoyed by the existing mobile home.
         (c)   Dwelling, Mobile Home, Class CBefore issuing a Zoning Compliance
Permit for a Class C mobile home, the Planning Director shall certify the
following:Class C: Single or double-wide manufactured housing unit existing in
the Town of Wallace prior to the effective date of this ordinance that meets
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development manufactured home
construction standards, but does not meet the town’s appearance criteria. Such
manufactured homes may only be relocated to currently conforming mobile home
parks that existed prior to the effective date of this ordinance. At that time,
the home must be underpinned with either masonry materials or other products
manufactured expressly for the purpose of underpinning and installed in
accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications.
   L.   ELECTRONIC GAMING
      1.   STANDARDS FOR EVALUATION
The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application for
approval of this use:
         (a)   Electronic Gaming Operations are allowed as a primary use as
established in the Table of Permitted Uses. No alcohol sales or consumption
allowed for operations allowed as a primary use.
         (b)   Electronic Gaming Operations are allowed as an accessory use
with a Zoning Compliance Permit only when collocated with the following primary
uses: restaurant A or C, Laundromat, bar, nightclub, or convenience store.
         (c)   Any Electronic Gaming Operation must provide a written
description of their good faith efforts to prevent minors from using the gaming
terminals as part of their application materials. Efforts may include but are
not limited to business operation methods, physical separation of terminals
from other parts of the business, and the like.
         (d)   To qualify as an accessory use within a primary use listed
above, the Electronic Gaming Operation may not contain more than three (3)
computer terminals or individual stations.
         (e)   No Electronic Gaming Operation with four (4) or more computer
terminals shall:
            i.   be established within one hundred (100) feet of a
residentially zoned lot line or lot line of a parcel in residential use; or
            ii.   be established within two hundred and fifty (250) feet of any
school, park, playground, library, or any areas where large numbers of minors
regularly travel or congregate; or
            iii.   be established within a two hundred and fifty (250) foot
radius of another Electronic Gaming Operation.
            iv.   have on-site sales and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages.
   M.   EVENT CENTER
      1.   STANDARDS FOR EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of this use:
         (a)   The proposed uses must occupy a structure that exists on the
applicant parcel before application is submitted.
         (b)   The proposed use of the site shall not require a structural
expansion or addition of more than fifty (50) percent of the gross floor area
existing in the building to be used at the time of application and planned to
be retained for use.
         (c)   If a state, county or town license or permit is required to
operate such a facility, the standards necessary to qualify for such a permit
have been, or can be met; no building permit or certificate of occupancy for
such use shall be issued until all other state, county and/or local permits
required for the use are submitted to the Town.
         (d)   If live or recorded music is allowed at events, no amplified
sound and/or music shall be allowed outdoors after 9 PM or indoors after 12:00
AM (midnight).
         (e)   The proposed methods of soundproofing the buildings must be
sufficient to reduce noise from the interior of the building. The noise level
at the property line shall not exceed forty-five (45) decibels.
         (f)   Outdoor areas planned to be used in connection with the event
center shall be located and buffered in such a manner as to protect neighboring
uses from light, noise, and loss of privacy.
   N.   EXTENDED CARE FACILITY
      1.   STANDARDS FOR EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of this use:
         (a)   All proposed structures shall appear residential in character.
         (b)   The standards for building setbacks, landscaping, buffering,
stormwater control, impervious surface limits, signage, parking, and lighting,
for the Highway Business District shall apply regardless of the zoning
classification of the site.
         (c)   At least (10) percent of the gross parcel area shall be
maintained as outdoor open space or park space. Areas dedicated to required
buffers, storm drainage or detention shall not be considered open or park
space.
   O.   FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATIONAll family child care homes shall be licensed
as required by the state and shall meet all applicable state requirements.
         (a)   The principal person or persons operating the family child care
home must reside in the dwelling on the premises.
         (b)   The family child care home shall not create traffic or parking
congestion, noise, vibration, odor, glare, fumes, or electrical or
communications interference which can be detected by the normal senses off the
premises, including visual or audible interference with radio or television
reception.
         (c)   Notwithstanding any other limitation established by this
Ordinance, a family care home may have one, unlighted freestanding sign not to
exceed 8 square feet in area or 5 feet in height, otherwise in compliance with
Section
6.19, Signage.
   P.   FENCE
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
         (a)   Fences which have a "friendly" (i.e., aesthetically pleasing)
and "unfriendly" (i.e., aesthetically less pleasing) sides shall be constructed
so the "friendly" side faces outward toward neighboring properties. The
“unfriendly” side of a fence is that with the rails connecting pickets or
posts.
         (b)   Fences do not have to meet any setback standard, but must be
located outside of a public right of way, or utility, access or drainage
easement unless an encroachment agreement or other similar written
authorization is provided. At the discretion of the Planning Director, fences
maybe required to observe a minimal setback to allow maintenance without
trespassing on neighboring properties.
         (c)   Applicants seeking to erect fences are required to secure a
Zoning Compliance Permit before construction.
   Q.   GROUP CARE FACILITY
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of this use:
         (a)   Operators shall have licensing permit or letter stating that
such licensing permit will be issued from the Duplin County Department of
Social Services, Adult Home Specialist or such other County, state and/or
federal agency as may have licensing jurisdiction over the operator.
         (b)   The lot area shall conform to the minimum required for the
zoning district and be sufficient to contain all required components.
         (c)   The structure proposed shall have the appearance of a
residential building, and any proposed structural alterations shall be of such
a nature as to preserve the residential character of the building. The proposed
changes or improvements of the property shall be in keeping with the
residential nature of the area.
         (d)   Parking areas are to be located to the side or rear of the
building, shall meet the parking lot landscaping requirements in Section
6.10, Landscaping, and shall provide any screening required by Section
6.17, Screening, for neighboring uses as determined by the permit issuing
authority.
         (e)   Improved recreation areas shall provide screening to neighboring
uses as required by Section
6.17, Screening, and as determined by the permit issuing authority.
         (f)   The proposed use shall not be located within five hundred (500)
feet of another existing group care facility.
   R.   HOME OCCUPATION
      1.   ALL HOME OCCUPATIONS SHALL COMPLY WITH THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS:
         (a)   A home occupation is the base of operations for the business and
the primary function of the business takes place on the residential property
for which the permit is issued. For example: an employee who telecommutes to
their place of business in Wilmington is not engaged in a home occupation and
does not require a home occupation permit, but the person who owns a computer
consulting business and conducts business from their home does. A self-employed
business owner who keeps his business records at his home and is contacted at
his home to arrange work but does not do any of the job function at the home
does not need a home occupation permit.
         (b)   A home occupation is located within a dwelling unit or in an
accessory building on the same lot or parcel as the dwelling unit. A home
occupation involving the growing or raising of an agricultural product may also
be allowed so long as the area outside of a structure involved in raising the
product sold meets the area requirement below.
         (c)   The area occupied by the home occupation shall not exceed 25
percent of the heated floor area of the dwelling unit to which it is accessory.
         (d)   The principal person or persons providing the business or
service must reside in the dwelling on the premises.
         (e)   The operator of the home occupation may not employ more than two
(2) non-resident persons on the premises.
         (f)   The home occupation shall not cause or result in any change in
the external appearance of the existing dwelling and structures on the
property.
         (g)   All vehicles used in connection with the home occupation shall
be of a size, type customary for residential use, and shall be located on the
premises in such a manner, so as to not disrupt the quiet nature and visual
quality of the surrounding area. No more than two (2) business-related vehicles
may be parked at the site of the home occupation. In no instance shall any
vehicle with a gross vehicle weight exceeding 5,000 pounds be parked, stored,
or otherwise maintained at the site of a home occupation.
         (h)   Home occupations shall not result in regular and on-going
business-related vehicular traffic to the home where located.
         (i)   There shall be sufficient off-street parking for patrons of the
home occupation, with the number of off-street parking spaces required for the
home occupation to be provided and maintained in addition to the space or
spaces required for the dwelling itself.
          (j)   There shall be no advertising devices on the property, or other
signs of the home occupation, which are visible from outside the dwelling or
accessory building.
         (k)   The site of the home occupation shall not contain any outdoor
display or storage of goods, equipment, or services associated with the home
occupation.
         (l)   The home occupation shall not create adverse impacts on health,
safety, or comfort of customers or neighboring residents which can be detected
by the normal senses off the premises. Such impacts shall include but not be
limited to fire or explosive hazards; interference with electronic
communication; loud, raucous or disturbing noise; dust; odors; fumes; glare; or
vibration.
         (m)   The home occupation shall not create or exhibit an increase in
noise, traffic or parking demands markedly beyond that normally associated with
a residential use.
      2.   Home occupations shall obtain a Zoning Compliance Permit in
accordance with Section
3.13, Zoning Compliance Permit.
      3.   The following uses are not permitted as home occupations in
residential zoning districts except as a legal non-conforming use:
         (a)   Boarding of domesticated animals
         (b)   Dealerships for firearms or motor vehicles
         (c)   Motor vehicle maintenance, service, or repair
         (d)   Any use that will routinely generate five or more customers
within one hour.
         (e)   Any use that is only permitted with a Special Use Permit if
otherwise located.
   S.   JUNKYARD, VEHICLE
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application for
approval of this use:
         (a)   All storage areas on the site shall be secured by a fence at
least eight (8) feet tall, uninterrupted except for required vehicle access
points to prevent unlawful entry.
         (b)   The landscape plan shows that all storage areas are screened so
that a person six feet tall cannot see stored items when standing at ground
level on all adjacent properties and the public right of way within 100 feet of
the property line. This screening may be accomplished through any single or
combination of methods approved by the permit issuing authority.
         (c)   No outside work using motorized equipment or mechanical devices
shall be allowed between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
         (d)   Applicants shall provide noise level documentation for equipment
used outdoors on site. The permit issuing authority may require any one, or a
combination of fencing, distance, hours of operation, and baffling as needed to
minimize noise generated by such facilities.
         (e)   There shall be no storage of materials closer than fifty (50)
feet to a public right-of-way or residentially zoned property, nor closer than
thirty (30) feet to non-residentially zoned property.
   T.   KENNEL, BOARDING
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application for
approval of this use:
         (a)   No part of any building, structure, or runway in which animals
are housed or exercised shall be closer than one hundred and fifty (150) feet
to a property line., The minimum distance from a property line shall be fifty
(50) feet if all portions of the facility in which animals are housed are
wholly enclosed within a building.
         (b)   Any kennel or runway which is not wholly enclosed within a
building shall be encircled by a security fence at least six (6) feet in
height.
         (c)   The applicant shall provide written evidence of compliance with
all applicable state standards, including copies of all state permits and
approvals necessary to operate the kennel.      (d)   The proposed landscaping
shall provide visual obstruction equal to a Type B buffer from adjacent
property through new planting or existing vegetation.
         (e)   The facility shall be designed in a manner to minimize visual
contact between animals and outside influences. The number of windows and doors
shall be kept to a minimum.
         (f)   The facility shall be air conditioned.
   U.   MAIL ORDER HOUSE
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application for
the approval of this use:
         (a)   No more than twenty (20) percent of the gross floor area of the
structure can be used for retail sales to walk-in customers.
   V.   MANUFACTURING COMPLEX
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for the approval of this use:
         (a)   Any use requiring a state air permit and/or local Significant
Industrial User Pretreatment certificate shall provide a copy of the current
permit for the operation with the application.
         (b)   Average daily traffic and anticipated characteristics of
vehicular traffic, particularly heavy truck traffic (three or more axels),
anticipated to be generated by the use shall be submitted with the application.
         (c)   Anticipated noise levels at property lines based on similarly
situated uses in other locations. Movable equipment on site must be included in
the calculation.
         (d)   No outside work using motorized equipment or mechanical devices
shall be allowed between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
         (e)   Applicants shall provide noise level documentation for equipment
used outdoors on site. The permit issuing authority may require any one, or a
combination of fencing, distance, hours of operation, and baffling as needed to
minimize noise generated by such facilities.
         (f)   Outside storage of materials and equipment is permitted if it
meets the standards of Section
6.11, Lighting Requirements.
         (g)   The distance to the nearest occupied dwelling unit and
residentially zoned parcel shall be submitted.
   W.   MOBILE HOME PARK/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application for
the approval of this use:
         (a)   The minimum lot area of a new mobile home park shall be five (5)
acres exclusive of any public rights-of-way.
         (b)   The maximum number of units per forty thousand (40,000) square
feet of lot area shall be seven (7). The minimum distances between mobile
homes, the access road and property lines are as shown.
         (c)   The owner and developers have submitted a plan to maintain the
mobile home park.
         (d)   The rules and regulations for the park tenants shall address, at
a minimum, the following:
            i.   Accessory storage of goods;
            ii.   Outside storage of goods;
            iii.   Maintenance of units, skirting, lawns, parking areas, common
facilities and recreation areas; and
            iv.   Non-functioning motor vehicles
         (e)   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided as required in
Section
6.12, Mobile Home Parks.
         (f)   The proposed street names shall be approved by the Duplin County
E-911 Addressing Department and shall not duplicate any other street name in
the Town of Wallace’s zoning jurisdiction. All street intersections shall have
a road name sign for each intersecting street. The signs shall be made to
conform to the existing street name signs erected by the Town.
         (g)   Each unit in the park shall display the correct 911 address as
per Section
6.15, POSTING REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURES. The unit numbers shall be reflective
and placed on the side of the unit facing the road. The park owner shall ensure
that new units are numbered and that existing units maintain their numbers.
         (l)   A school bus stop shall be provided at the entrance of the park.
The space shall be a minimum of twelve (12) feet wide by twenty-four (24) feet
long. There shall be a weather shelter of not less than fifty (50) square feet.
This shelter may be in conjunction with central mail distribution boxes.
         (m)   Mobile home parks shall comply with the active recreational
facilities as per Section
6.12(B)(18) and usable open space requirements applicable to other multi-family
developments as described in Section
6.13, OPEN SPACE.
         (n)   All electrical, telephone and cable TV service lines shall be
installed underground. Only those facilities such as transformers normally not
buried may be above ground.
         (o)   The lighting plan for the mobile home park shall meet the
minimum requirements of the Ordinance.
         (p)   Trash and recycling receptacles shall be provided in adequate
numbers and locations to meet the requirements of this Ordinance.
         (q)   The pedestrian circulation system shall connect each unit with
all common areas in the park, with the off-street parking spaces and with the
public road. The pathways shall be a minimum of three (3) feet wide and
surfaced with an all-weather material such as asphalt or gravel. The number of
intersections of the interior pedestrian pathways and the road system shall be
kept to a minimum.
         (r)   Each unit within the park shall have individual connections to
the public water and sewer systems.
         (s)   The water and sewer line extension plans have been approved by
the State and the Town.
         (t)   Each mobile home unit shall be skirted as per Section
6.12, MOBILE HOME PARKS, before a Certificate of Occupancy will be issued.
         (u)   The landscape plan meets the requirements for a Type B buffer
around the perimeter of the park.
         (v)   The entrances and exits for the development are directly off a
paved public road(s) which is either a collector or arterial street, and meet
the driveway standards in Section
6.9, DRIVEWAY CONNECTIONS.
         (w)   All other standards set forth in Section
6.12, MOBILE HOME PARKS.
      2.   Existing Mobile Home ParksAfter the adoption of this Ordinance,
existing mobile home parks must comply with Section
6.12(F), NONCONFORMING PARKS, in order to continue operation.
   X.   MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL STATION
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate application for the
approval of this use:
         (a)   The proposed hours of operation shall be consistent with the
predominant uses in the area.
         (b)   Subject to the limitation established in Section
5.2(X)(1)(d), below, lots with frontage on more than one street shall be
limited to one (1) driveway cut on the higher classified street. Additional
driveway cut(s), if any, shall be on streets of lower classification. Driveways
permits shall be approved by NCDOT for access to state roads.
         (c)   Site plan shall show anticipated traffic pattern for vehicles
entering, exiting and on the site, including pump islands, stacking space,
additional parking spaces, and sidewalks and other pedestrian areas, with
emphasis on vehicular and pedestrian safety;
         (d)   Sites shall not have direct driveway connections to streets
classified as arterial or collector.
         (e)   Changeable message signs (1) will be permitted to display the
price of fuel only and (2) may not exceed fifty (50) percent of the sign area
for the use.
         (f)   Gas station canopies shall be designed to be an integral part of
the station architecture, and canopy lighting shall comply with the lighting
requirements of Section
6.11, LIGHTING.
         (g)   Gas station pumps may be placed at the rear of the lot when the
use is combined with a convenience store, and the convenience store is located
near the main street to shield the utilitarian pump canopy and highlight the
building
         (h)   Vehicle Accommodation/Pump Island
            i.   Within the Highway Business (HB) District and Industrial (i)
District, motor vehicle stations may accommodate a maximum of twelve (12)
vehicles at one time.
            ii.   In all other districts where the use is permitted, a maximum
of eight (8) vehicles may be served at one time.
   Y.   MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used in evaluating an
application for the approval of this use:
         (a)   The proposed hours of operation shall be consistent with the
predominant uses in the area.
         (b)   Lots with frontage on more than one street shall be limited to
one (1) driveway cut on the higher classified street. Additional driveway cut
(s), if any, shall be on streets of lower classification. Driveways permits
shall be approved by NCDOT for access to state roads.
         (c)   Service bay doors shall not be located on the building façade
facing the public right-of-way or on pedestrian- oriented façades.
         (d)   Applicants shall provide noise level documentation for equipment
use outdoors on site.
         (e)   The permit issuing authority may require any one, or a
combination of fencing, distance, hours of operation, and baffling as needed to
minimize noise generated by such facilities.
   Z.   MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR
      1.    STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for the approval of this use:
         (a)   Areas for storage of vehicles awaiting repair shall be buffered
from the public right-of-way.
         (b)   Service bay doors shall not be located on the building façade
facing the public right-of-way or on pedestrian- oriented façades.
         (c)   No outside display or storage of retail goods is permitted
unless approved as a combination use.
         (d)   Applicants shall provide noise level documentation for equipment
and sound system use outdoors on site. The permit issuing authority may require
any one, or a combination of fencing, distance, hours of operation, and
baffling as needed to minimize noise generated by such facilities.
   AA.   MOTOR VEHICLE SALES/RENTAL
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for the approval of this use:
         (a)   Outside displays shall not be permitted in designated parking
spaces. Vehicles designated as available for sale, lease or rent shall not be
parked or displayed in designated parking spaces required to meet the minimum
parking requirements of this Ordinance.
         (b)   Outside display of vehicles available for sale, lease or rent
are considered “parked cars” and the display area must meet requirements for
parking lots in terms of landscaping, vehicle maneuvering, and similar
requirements.
         (c)   No service, maintenance or repairs of vehicles is permitted
unless approved as a combination use.
         (d)   Applicants shall provide noise level documentation for any sound
system used outdoors on site. The permit issuing authority may require any one,
or a combination of fencing, distance, hours of operation, and baffling as
needed to minimize noise generated by such facilities.
   BB.   NIGHTCLUB
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION   The following specific standards shall be
used to evaluate an application for the approval of this use:
         (a)   The proposed methods of soundproofing the buildings must be
sufficient to reduce noise from the interior of the building. The noise level
at the property line shall not exceed forty-five (45) decibels.
         (b)   There must be sufficient number of employees to maintain the
safe and orderly operation of the establishment.
         (c)   Live entertainment and amplified music shall cease no later than
1:00 a.m.
   CC.   OUTLET SALES
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for the approval of this use:
         (a)   Outlet sales areas may not exceed ten (10) percent of the gross
floor area of the building on the parcel where such sales are to occur.
         (b)   Parking spaces shall be provided for outlet sales areas using
the same formula for determining the required number of spaces as is used for
retail sales. Parking spaces shall be conveniently located to the sales
entrance.
   DD.   PARK, ATHLETIC AND PARK, COMMUNITY
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of this use:
         (a)   The site plan shows there are no residential structures within
one hundred (100) feet of any outdoor playing field (including but not limited
to baseball fields, basketball courts, tennis courts, soccer fields, football
fields, and spectator areas for such fields).
         (b)   If there is no residential structure on the adjacent property,
the outside boundary of the playing field must be set back at least fifty (50)
feet from the property line. No structure associated with outdoor recreation
activities shall be located within the setback required for the district in
which the use occurs. Such structures include but are not limited to back
stops, basketball or football goals, soccer goals, pavement for tennis or
basketball courts, batting cages, bleachers, as well as picnic shelters,
tables, swings, barbecue grills and playground equipment.
         (c)   Athletic and community parks shall have a minimum lot area of
five (5) acres, unless a lesser area is approved by the permit issuing
authority upon good cause shown by the applicant to justify the reduction.
         (d)   The lot size is adequate for the improvements proposed or
required, and the lot provides room for adequate buffers and fencing. In
particular, the applicant must show that adjacent property is protected from
undue glare from outdoor lighting and trespass by patrons going to and from the
park.
         (e)   Security of park users and surrounding properties is addressed
by balancing buffers and visual access into the park from adjacent lots and
rights-of-way.
         (f)   Proposed restroom facilities shall be adequate to accommodate
the maximum number of participants expected.
         (g)   The type of illumination for playing fields shall be designed
and located to minimize the impact of glare on adjacent property and shall
comply with the applicable lighting requirements of this Ordinance. All outdoor
illumination associated with playing fields shall cease at 11:00 pm.
   EE.   PARK, CULTURAL AND PARK, NATURAL
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of this use:
         (a)   Cultural parks shall have a minimum lot area of two (2) acres,
unless a lesser area is approved by the permit issuing authority upon good
cause shown by the applicant to justify the reduction.
         (b)   The lot size is adequate for the improvements proposed or
required, and the lot provides room for adequate buffers and fencing. In
particular, the applicant must show that the adjacent property is protected
from undue glare from outdoor lighting and trespass by patrons going to and
from the park.
         (c)   Security of park users and surrounding properties is addressed
by balancing buffers and visual access into the park from adjacent lots and
rights-of-way.
         (d)   Proposed restroom facilities shall be adequate to accommodate
the maximum number of participants expected.
         (e)   All outdoor lighting shall be designed and located to minimize
the impact of glare on adjacent property and be extinguished when the park is
not in use.
         (f)   All applicable site plan performance standards included in
Section
3.11, Site Plan Review, have been met.
   FF.   PARK, NEIGHBORHOOD
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of this use:
         (a)   The lot size is adequate for the improvements proposed or
required and sufficient to serve the population living within a ¼ mile radius
         (b)   The site plan provides protection to neighboring uses in the
form of buffers and fencing.
         (c)   In particular, the applicant must demonstrate that the adjacent
property is protected from undue glare from outdoor lighting and trespass by
participants going to and from the park.
         (d)   Security of park users and surrounding properties is addressed
by balancing buffers and visual access into the park from adjacent lots and
rights-of-way.
         (e)   Parking spaces are not required because of proximity to intended
users; however, some parking may be appropriate to accommodate guests.
   GG.   PERSONAL VEHICLE SALES
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for the approval of this use:
         (a)   The proposed hours of operation shall consistent with the
predominant uses in the area.
         (b)   Applicants with lots having frontage on more than one street
shall be limited to one (1) driveway cut on the higher classified street.
Additional driveway cut(s), if any, shall be on streets of lower
classification. Driveways permits shall be approved by NCDOT for access to
state roads.
   HH.   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for the approval of this use:
         (a)   When this use is operated in conjunction with retail sales and
uses storage capacity is limited to no more than ten thousand (10,000) gallons
for sale to retail customers.
         (b)   When this use is operated only for sale to bulk customers or
storage capacity exceeds ten thousand (10,000) gallons, retail sales and rental
uses are allowed.
         (c)   The amounts of petroleum products to be stored shall not exceed
the capacity of the site to protect adjacent property from harm in an
emergency. The proposed methods of handling the material shall be in accordance
with accepted practices.
         (d)   The Fire Marshal has reviewed and accepted the emergency
response plan. The applicant shall have sufficient material to respond to an
emergency or the fire department has the existing capacity to respond.
         (e)   No existing structures on adjacent property shall be closer than
one hundred and fifty (150) feet to any proposed storage vessel. No vessel
shall be closer than one hundred (100) feet to a property line. Existing bulk
storage facilities shall meet the standards set forth in the Fire Prevention
Code as recommended by the American Insurance Association.
         (f)   The site shall be secured, by a chain link fence with barbed
wire or a wall with barbed wire, or other similar perimeter security barriers
as approved by the permit issuing authority. The minimum height shall be eight
(8) feet.
         (g)   The system of drainage and dikes on site shall prevent the
discharge of any stored products into streams on the property or on adjacent
property. The impoundment basin shall be of sufficient volume to retain the
volume of the largest storage vessel on the site. The dikes must be designed in
such a manner as not to impede normal maintenance in and around the vessels or
the response during an emergency.
         (h)   The site plan must demonstrate that there will be no adverse
environmental impacts on water quality.
         (i)   A fire hydrant served by a minimum six (6) inch line shall be
located within two hundred and fifty (250) feet of the main entrance to the
proposed facility.
         (j)   The storage facilities shall be screen from the public right-of-
way and from adjoining properties by a Type B buffer.
   II.   PUBLIC UTILITIES
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of these uses:
         (a)   The proposed landscaping shall provide a visual buffer equal to
a Type B buffer from adjacent property through new plantings or existing
vegetation.
         (b)   The proposed site meets the needs of the applicant and minimizes
potential adverse impacts on the adjacent property.
         (c)   All required state agency approvals have been obtained, and the
proposed operators have been or will be certified by the appropriate state
agency; no certificate of occupancy shall be issued until proof of such
certification has been submitted to the Town.
         (d)   Public convenience and necessity shall be served by this
facility if installed as proposed.
         (e)   All outside storage areas and treatment facilities are fenced
with a minimum eight (8) foot high cyclone fence topped with barbed wire, or
similar perimeter security satisfactory to the permit issuing authority
         (f)   The architectural elevations of the buildings show that the
buildings preserve the character of the surrounding area to the maximum extent
practicable.
         (g)   All structures except public water storage facilities are set
back at least one hundred (100) feet from the property line. Elevated public
water storage facilities shall observe a setback equal to the greater of the
height of the storage facility or the setback required in the district where
the facility is located.
         (h)   All electric power, telephone, gas distribution, and cable
television lines serving new development and/or new structures shall run
underground from the point of connection with the existing main lines to all
structures on the lot served by those lines. Such lines shall be placed
underground in accordance with the specifications and policies of the
respective utility companies.
         (i)   Whenever it can reasonably be anticipated that utility
facilities constructed in one development will be extended to serve other
adjacent or nearby properties, such utility facilities (e.g., water or sewer
lines) shall be located and constructed so that extensions can be made
conveniently and without undue burden, expense or unnecessary duplication of
service.
         (j)   All utility facilities shall be constructed in such a manner as
to minimize interference with pedestrian or vehicular traffic and to facilitate
maintenance without undue damage to improvements or facilities located within
the development.
   JJ.   RECREATIONAL FACILITY
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of uses in this category:
         (a)   Applicants shall indicate the maximum building capacity and the
expected peak usage times including capacities and peak usage for all outdoor
facilities, fields or courts included as elements of the facility.
         (b)   Shared parking with adjacent uses that have different peak usage
times is encouraged.
         (c)   Outdoor facilities, fields, and courts located within one
thousand (1000) feet of residential uses shall not be used after 10:00 PM
unless specifically authorized at the time of permit approval.
         (d)   The public use portion of outdoor facilities, fields, and courts
shall observe a fifty (50) foot setback from property lines when adjacent to
property in residential use.
         (e)   The setback requirement stated above is a presumptive setback,
and may be expanded or reduced based on the particular circumstances of each
application. In determining the appropriate setback for a particular situation,
the Town must consider the impacts of noise, lights, and loss of privacy on
neighboring properties. Mitigation measures may include, but are not limited
to: grade change, landscaping, fencing, operations modifications and details.
         (f)   In reviewing applications, the Town will balance the need for
security and the impact of the proposed use on the surrounding neighborhood.
   KK.   RESTAURANT (TYPES A, B, AND C)
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION   The following specific standards shall be
used to evaluate an application for approval of uses in this category:
         (a)   Outdoor eating areas shall be buffered, screened, landscaped, or
otherwise located to protect patrons and adjacent properties from adverse
impacts, and to provide a pleasant experience to the patrons. This standard may
not apply in the Central Business (CB) District.
         (b)   Outdoor play or recreation areas shall be located on a
pedestrian façade.
         (c)   Changeable message signs are prohibited.
         (d)   Drive-up windows and ground-mounted menu boards shall not be
located on the primary or pedestrian oriented façades.
         (e)   Stacking space for drive-up areas shall not inhibit traffic flow
on the site.
         (f)   Restaurants proposed in the Neighborhood Business (NB) district
shall provide information about their seating capacity, hours of operation,
provision of drive-up or delivery service, on-site food preparation, special
events offered, and service of alcoholic beverages to determine the use’s
compliance with the intent of the Neighborhood Business district.
         (g)   Applicants shall provide noise level documentation for any sound
system used outdoors on site. The permit issuing authority may require any one,
or a combination of fencing, distance, hours of operation, and baffling as
needed to minimize noise generated by such facilities
   LL.    RETAIL SALES AND RENTAL
      1.    STANDARDS OF EVALUATION   The following specific standards shall be
used in evaluating an application for approval of this use:
         (a)   Areas proposed for outside storage and display of retail items
shall be clearly delineated on the site plan.
         (b)   Areas proposed for outside display and storage of retail items
shall be located in a fenced or buffered area.
         (c)   Fenced areas must be enclosed on all sides by fencing or
buildings, may be open to the sky, and the fence must be of adequate height to
secure the area, but shall not exceed 8 feet in height.
         (d)   Outside displays may not encroach on pedestrian ways, fire
lanes, required parking spaces, travel lanes, or landscaped areas.
   MM.   ROOMING / BOARDING HOUSE
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used in evaluating an
application for approval of this use:
         (a)   Each unit within a rooming/boarding house shall have direct
access to a hall or exterior door.
         (b)   If a state, county or town license or permit is required to
operate such a facility, the standards necessary to qualify for such permit
must be met, and such permit issued before a final Certificate of Occupancy is
issued.
   NN.   SCHOOL: ELEMENTARY, MIDDLE, & SECONDARY
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION   The following specific standards shall be
used to evaluate an application for approval of uses in this category:
         (a)   Structures, driveways, and other significant physical features
within one hundred (100) feet of property line of this project are protected
from adverse impacts as required by this Ordinance.
      (b)   Schools shall be located a minimum of one thousand (1,000) feet
from established adult uses.
   OO.   SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of uses in this category:
         (a)   Fencing. The proposed Solar Energy Facility shall be enclosed by
a fence at a minimum of six (6) feet in height.
         (b)   Screening. The proposed Solar Energy Facility shall be screened
with plant material that will attain the height of the fence within a three (3)
year period after the facility is built. This distance, location, and screening
requirements shall be at the recommendation of the Planning Director and at
direction of the Town Council under the special use permit.
         (c)   Lighting. Lighting shall be such that it is not directed onto
any adjacent properties or right-of-ways.
         (d)   Parking. There must be an area designated outside the DOT right-
of-way to accommodate a minimum of three (3) maintenance vehicles.
         (e)   Removal. Solar Energy Facilities shall be removed at the owner’s
expense within 180 days when it is deemed that the area is no longer maintained
in an operable state of good repair.
         (f)   Safety Hazards. Solar Energy Facilities shall not create a
visual safety hazard for passing motorist.
         (g)   Setbacks. Solar Energy Facilities and structures shall conform
to the principal building setbacks of the underlying zoning district which they
are located.
         (h)   Structures shall not exceed twenty (20) feet in height as
measured from the grade at the base of the structure to its highest point.
   PP.   SUBDIVISION, CONSERVATION
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of uses in this category:
         (a)   The site plan shall identify and protect existing “irreplaceable
natures features” on the site. These areas shall be designated Open Space in
accordance with Section
6.13, Open Space.
         (b)   The development plan sets aside a minimum of 35% of the gross
parcel area in land that meets the standards for open space
         (c)   The development plan creates no more 100 dwelling units,
including accessory units in detached structures
         (d)   Individual lots have no required minimum area or width, provided
each lot meets the minimum street frontage requirement and the density limit
for the zoning district as calculated in Section
6.3, General Dimensional Standards.
         (e)   Individual lots observe a minimum front yard setback of 15’ and
side and rear setback of
         (f)   10’ each, or such other setbacks approved by the permit issuing
authority that meet fire and building code requirements.
         (g)   Any new public street conforms to the town design specifications
for that street type.
         (h)   At least 20 new lots, including any remainder of the original
parcel being subdivided, are being created within a five year period.
         (i)   The relevant development standards in Section 6 are met or
reasonably can be met.
         (j)   A map or plat suitable for recording in the Register of Deeds
shall be submitted. The map must be prepared according to applicable Surveying
and Register of Deeds Standards.
   QQ.   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION   The following specific standards shall be
used to evaluate an application for approval of uses in this category:
         (a)   The preliminary subdivision plan shows lots that conform to the
minimum lot size and width requirements shown in Section
6.3, General Dimensional Standards.
         (b)   Any new public street to be constructed as part of this proposal
conforms to the town design specifications for that street type.
         (c)   At least five (5) new lots, including any remainder, are being
created from the parent tract within any five year period for a Major
Subdivision.
          (d)   The relevant development standards in Section 6 are met or
reasonably can be met.
         (e)   A map or plat suitable for recording in the Register of Deeds
shall be submitted.
   RR.   SUBDIVISION, MINOR
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION   The following specific standards shall be
used to evaluate an application for approval of uses in this category, except
for statutory expedited minor subdivisions as provided in subsection (e) below:
         (a)   The preliminary subdivision plan shows lots that conform to the
minimum lot size and width requirements as shown in Section
6.3, General Dimensional Standards.
         (b)   Any new street to be constructed as part of this proposal
conforms to the town design specifications for that street type.
         (c)   No more than four (4) lots, including any remainder, shall be
created from the parent tract within any two year period. The creation of a
fifth (or more) lot within a five year period shall cause the subdivision to be
processed as a Major Subdivision.
         (d)   A map or plat suitable for recording in the Register of Deeds
shall be submitted.
         (e)   Only a final plat for recordation, to be approved by the
Planning Director, shall be required for the division of one existing parcel of
land under single ownership that is not exempt per G.S. 160D-802(a); (1) where
no part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided in the 10 years
prior to the proposed division; (2) the entire area of the tract or parcel to
be divided is greater than 5 acres; (3) after division, no more than three lots
result from the division and all resultant lots comply with all lot dimension
size requirements of the applicable zoning district and the use of the lots is
in conformity with the applicable zoning district; and (4) a permanent means of
ingress and egress is recorded for each.
   SS.   STORAGE AND WAREHOUSING, OUTDOOR
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of this use:
         (a)   Storage areas shall be located behind buildings or screened from
adjacent property and public right-of way with a solid screen at least six (6)
feet in height.
         (b)   Solid screens may be one or a combination of fences, walls,
vegetation, topographical change, or berms. Fences and walls must be opaque and
vegetation must be kept in healthy condition.
         (c)   No item defined by this Ordinance or in the Town Code as “solid
waste” may be stored on a site.
         (d)   No hazardous materials may be stored unless specifically
authorized by the State Fire Code and necessary for operations in the ordinary
course of business for the principle use on the site.
         (e)   All outside storage areas shall be clearly indicated on
submitted site plans and storage must be confined to designated areas.
   TT.   TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval:
         (a)   Adjacent to residential zoning districts, minimum setbacks from
the base of the tower to the property boundary shall be equal to the height of
the tower. The setback may be reduced to no less than one-half of the tower
height if easements for the remaining setback distance are granted by adjoining
property owners, provided that no residence may be located within a distance
equal to the height of the tower measured from the base of the tower.
         (b)   Adjacent to non-residential zoning districts, minimum setbacks
from the base of the tower to the property boundary shall be equal to fifty
(50) percent of the height of the tower. The setback may be reduced to no less
than twenty (20) percent of the tower height if an engineer certifies that the
proposed setbacks are sufficient to contain the tower in the event of collapse.
         (c)   A Type B buffer shall be provided between the base of the tower
(including all base station equipment) and adjoining property. Existing
vegetation may be removed only to the extent necessary to accommodate the
tower, equipment buildings, and support structures such as guy wires.
         (d)   No structures may be located within the required tower setback
area, except those structures which are accessory to the tower.
         (e)   The site plan shall reserve space for at least one (1) equipment
building in addition to that proposed for use by the applicant in order to
accommodate and encourage collocation opportunities.
         (f)   Security fencing shall be provided around the tower base or
around the perimeter of the site.
         (g)   The applicant shall provide a written explanation documenting
how or why the telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower
cannot be accommodated on an existing tower. Such written explanation shall, at
a minimum, address the following issues:
         (h)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
existing and approved towers, considering existing and planned use of those
towers. The applicant must address whether any existing tower serving the area
can be reinforced to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment at a
reasonable cost.
         (i)   The planned equipment would cause radio frequency interferences
with other existing or planned equipment for existing towers and the
interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
         (j)   Existing or approved towers do not have space on which the
equipment can be placed so it can function effectively and reasonably in parity
with similar existing or approved equipment.
         (k)   No tower or other suitable facility exists in an area where the
equipment to be placed on the tower will function in its intended manner.
         (l)   The proposed telecommunications tower shall be structurally
designed to support at least one (1) additional user, and the required Special
Use Permit shall include a statement that the owner of the tower will require
all users of the tower to permit other user(s) to attach communication
facilities which do not interfere with the primary purpose of the tower,
provided that such other users agree to negotiate commercially reasonable terms
for shared use of the facility. The color of the tower shall be of light tone,
except to the extent required by law, so as to minimize its visual impact.
         (m)   The tower shall not be artificially lighted unless required by
the FAA, FCC or other federal or state agency having jurisdiction.
         (n)   Although the height of the tower and antenna may exceed the
maximum height of the zoning district, neither will unreasonably interfere with
the view of/from any historic site, scenic road, or major view corridor. The
height, design, placement, or other characteristics of the proposed tower shall
be designed in a manner to minimize the intrusive visual impact on the
surrounding area.
         (o)   Towers and appurtenant fixtures with expired communication
licenses shall be removed within twelve (12) months of the license expiration,
or within 12 months of the cessation of active telecommunications use of the
tower for any reason. The Special Use Permit shall include a requirement that
the applicant record a removal agreement to ensure compliance with this
requirement. The approved permit will also list the Planning Department as a
recipient of all license renewal notices.
   UU.   TRANSMISSION LINE
      1.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of new high voltage electric transmission lines in the Town’s
zoning jurisdiction:
         (a)   The width of the right-of-way is sufficient to protect for
existing structures on adjacent property from tower collapse, effects of
electromagnetic fields, and transmission line failure.
         (b)   The methods of the proposed right-of-way maintenance protect
adjacent property owners and property from herbicide damage due to herbicides
and other maintenance methods and chemicals.
         (c)   The public convenience and necessity shall be served by this
facility if installed as proposed.
         (d)   The applicant has submitted an emergency response plan which
protects adjacent properties and the environment from accidental or natural
disaster.
   VV.   USE REQUIRING SPECIAL USE PERMITS BASED ON THE SIZE, INTENSITY, OR
LOCATION OF THE USE
      1.   INTENTThis section establishes submittal requirements and standards
of evaluation for the Town Council to use in reviewing Special Use Permits for
uses requiring such permit, but for which specific standards are not stated in
this section.
      2.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of uses in this category:
         (a)   The written description of the operation indicates that the use
is permitted either as of right or as a Special Use within the zoning district.
         (b)   Any use requiring a state air permit and/or local Significant
Industrial User Pretreatment certificate shall provide a copy of the current
permit for the operation with the application.
         (c)   Average daily traffic and anticipated characteristics of
vehicular traffic, particularly heavy truck traffic (three or more axles),
anticipated to be generated by the use shall be submitted with the application.
         (d)   Applicants shall provide noise level documentation for equipment
or vehicles used outdoors on site, if any. The permit issuing authority may
require any one, or a combination of fencing, distance, hours of operation, and
baffling as needed to minimize noise generated by such facilities.
         (e)   The distance to the nearest occupied dwelling unit and
residentially zoned parcel shall be submitted.
   WW.   YARD SALES
      1.   INTENTIt is the intent of this section to protect and promote the
public health, safety, aesthetics, and general welfare of the Town of Wallace
by regulating the number of yard sales permitted within the Town’s
jurisdiction.
      2.   STANDARDS OF EVALUATION
      The following specific standards shall be used to evaluate an application
for approval of uses in this category:
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for residents of residential districts to
conduct more than six (6) yard sales per year, neither of which shall exceed
two (2) days in length. No permitting is required for this use.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, property owner, or business
owner to conduct any yard sale in any non-residential district, including the
Highway Business (HB), Neighborhood Business (NB), Central Business (CB), or
Industrial (I) districts.
         (c)   Any signs are subject to the regulations contained in Section
6.19 of this Ordinance.
      3.   PENALTY
      Penalties as set forth in
Chapter 9, ENFORCEMENT, shall apply to violations of yard sale requirements.
Chapter 6 – Development Standards
   
6.1   Purpose and Intent
   
6.2   Design Standards Manual
   
6.3   General Dimensional Standards
   
6.3.1   Table: Dimensional Requirement for All Zoning Districts
   
6.3.2   Table: Side and Rear Setbacks for Lots Abutting a Different Zoning
District
   
6.4   Air Pollution
   
6.5   Buffers
   
6-1   Figure: Types Of Buffers
   
6-2   Figure: Required Buffer Placement
   
6.5.1   Table: Required Buffers
   
6.6   Creation of New Building Lots
   
6.7   Design Requirements for All New Non-Residential Buildings
   
6-3   Figure: Non-Residential Design Standards
   
6.8   RESERVED
   
6.9   Driveway Connections
   
6-4   Figure: Driveway Connections
   
6.10   Landscaping (Parking Lot)
   
6-5   Figure: Landscaping (Parking Lot)
   
6.11   Lighting
   
6-6   Figure: Exterior Lighting Requirements
   
6.12   Mobile Home Parks
   
6.12.1   Table: Mobile Home Park Recreation Area
   
6.13   Open Space
   
6-7   Figure: Open Space Illustrations
   
6.14   Parking, Loading, and Circulation
   
6.14.1   Table: Minimum Number of Parking Spaces Required
   
6-8   Figure: Parking Stall Measurements
   
6.14.2   Table: Off-Street Parking Geometric Requirements
   
6-9   Figure: Off-Street Parking Design Requirements
   
6.14.3   Table: Use Type and Off-Street Loading Spaces
   
6-10   Figure: Off-Street Loading Requirements
   
6.15   Posting Requirements for Structures
   
6.16   Recreation Sites
   
6.16.1   Table: Recreation Points and Attached Dwelling Units
   
6.16.2   Table: Recreation Points
   
6.17   Screening
   
6.18   Sidewalks and Walkways
   
6.19   Signage   
   
6.19.1   Table: Signs Allowed By District
   
6.20   Stormwater Ordinance
   
6.21   Streets
   
6.22   Tree Protection Standards
   
6-11   Figure: Tree Protection Zone
   
6.23   Wastewater Disposal
   
6.24   Water Supply
6.1   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   The general intent of this section is to provide standards for development
to help ensure the safe and convenient development of land on sites and in
locations adequate for the uses proposed. No Zoning Compliance Permit or
Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued for uses of land, structures and/or
buildings, or for a change in the use, unless the requirements of this Chapter
are met. The standards set forth in this section are to be used in conjunction
with the other sections of this Ordinance in the development of projects and
submittal of site plans.
6.2    DESIGN STANDARDS MANUAL
   The Town of Wallace’s Design Manual provides design standards additional to
the requirements of this Ordinance and tailored specific to overlay districts.
This Manual is intended to supplement, and not as a substitute for, this
Ordinance.
6.3   GENERAL DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
   The following section includes dimensional standards for both residential
and non-residential zoning districts. These general dimensional standards apply
to all properties unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance or by the
permit-issuing authority.
   There Are Two Tables In This Section:
   1.   Table
6.3.1: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL ZONING DISTRICTS includes a summary
table that specifies the area, maximum height, and yard setbacks for each of
the respective types of residential and non-residential zoning districts
6.3.1 TABLE: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL ZONING DISTRICTS
 R-6 R6-MH R-8 R-10 R-15 R-20 MH RA-2 0 CB HB NB I
6.3.1 TABLE: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL ZONING DISTRICTS
         R-6   R6-MH R-8   R-10   R-15   R-20   RA-2 0 CB   HB     NB     I
                                         MH
Minimum
Lot Area 6,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 20,000 None 10,000 10,000 45,000
(sf)
Minimum
Lot      60    60    80    75     100    100    100    0    75     75     200
Width
Minimum
Side     12    12    15    15     15     20     20     0*   15*    15*    50*
Yard
Width
Minimum
Rear     20    20    20    20     20     30     30     0*   20*    20*    50*
Yard
Width
Minimum
Front    25    25    30    30     30     40     40     0    40     35     40
Setback
Maximum
Building 35    35    35    35     35     45     45     50   40     35     65
Height
* Refer to Table 6.3.2 – If Abutting a Different Zoning District
 
   2.   Table
6.3.2: SIDE AND REAR SETBACK FOR LOTS ABUTTING A DIFFERENT ZONING DISTRICT
includes a summary table that specifies yard setbacks for lots when the
adjacent property is of a different zoning district.
 
6.3.2 Table: SIDE AND REAR SETBACKS FOR LOTS ABUTTING A DIFFERENT ZONING
DISTRICT
Adjacent to Proposed R-20 RA-20 R-15 R-10 R-8 R-6 R-6 MH
NB                   15   15    15   15   15  15  15
CB                   20   20    20   20   20  20  20
HB                   30   30    20   20   20  20  20
I                    75   75    75   75   75  75  75
 
   A.   Bona fide farm operations in the AR district are exempt from the side
yard and rear yard setback requirements provided (a) the bona fide farm is a
lot or parcel located outside the corporate limits of Wallace (i.e., is in the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction, and (b) the lot line with respect to
which the setback exemption is sought lies adjacent to other property zoned AR
or to property outside Wallace’s zoning jurisdiction.
6.4   AIR POLLUTION
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by regulating air pollution and contaminants in
order to provide clean air. Any permitted principal use, Special Use, or
accessory use that emits any “air contaminant” as defined in N.C. Gen. Stat. §
143-213, shall comply with applicable State of North Carolina standards
concerning air pollution, as set forth in Article 21B of Chapter 143 of the
North Carolina General Statutes.
   B.   STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
   No Zoning Compliance Permit shall be issued with respect to any development
emitting an "air contaminant" until the NC Department of Environment and
Natural Resources, Division of Air Quality, has certified to the Planning
Director that the appropriate State permits have been received by the applicant
(as provided in G.S. 143-215.108) or that the applicant will be eligible to
receive such permits and that the development is otherwise in compliance with
applicable air pollution control regulations. If a State permit is required,
but has not yet been approved at the time the Town is about to issue a Zoning
Compliance, the Town’s Zoning Compliance shall be issued subject to a condition
that no CO may be issued until the State permit has been issued.
6.5   BUFFERS
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by regulating the spacing of adjacent land uses.
Buffers are required where differences in adjacent zoning designations suggest
that spatial separation is necessary to offset potential adverse impacts of
adjacent uses. Screening requirements to mitigate the impacts of specific
activities like parking or solid waste storage are addressed in Section
6.16, SCREENING.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   Buffers will be required consistent with Figure
6-1, TYPES OF BUFFERS and Figure
6-2 , REQUIRED BUFFER PLACEMENT and Section
6.5(D), REQUIREMENTS. Buffers will generally be established at the earliest
review phase, but may be amended at the time of an individual parcel
development if the circumstances have changed.
   C.   BUFFER TYPES
      1.   Type A buffers shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide and shall provide
intermittent visual obstructions from the ground to a height of at least 15
feet. Plant material, sizes, and planting pattern options are included in the
Administrative Manual.
      2.   Type B buffers shall be a minimum of 40 feet wide and shall provide
a visual barrier from the ground to a height of 6 feet and intermittent visual
obstructions to a height of at least 20 feet. The 6 foot portion of the barrier
is not required to be 100% opaque year round, but shall provide significant
visual separation between the adjoining uses and shall deter pedestrian access.
Plant material, sizes, and planting pattern options are included in the
Administrative Manual.
      3.   Type C buffers shall be a minimum of 60 feet wide and shall provide
complete visual separation from the ground to a height of 10 feet upon plant
maturity, shall be opaque year round, and shall deter pedestrian access. Plant
material, sizes, and planting pattern options are included in the
Administrative Manual.
Figure 6-1: TYPES OF BUFFERS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-248.jpg]
 
   D.   REQUIREMENTS
      1.   Buffers shall be provided as set forth in Table
6.5.1, REQUIRED BUFFERS. The permit-issuing authority may require a greater or
lesser buffer type or include supplemental standards if during the review of
the application a different standard is clearly indicated.
      2.   When the parcel adjacent to the parcel being developed is vacant,
the permit-issuing authority may reduce the buffer by 50% if the current zoning
or future land use designation on the adjacent vacant parcel indicates that a
similar buffer would be required on the adjacent vacant parcel when it
develops.
      3.   When a parcel zoned for residential use is to be developed adjacent
to an Interstate or railroad right of way, a 100 foot undisturbed buffer shall
be provided along the adjacent property line, regardless of the requirement in
Table
6.5.1, REQUIRED BUFFERS. This buffer shall be planted to meet the standard of a
Type C buffer if the existing vegetation does not meet that standard.
      4.   When a non-residential parcel is adjacent to a street classified as
arterial or collector, no buffer shall be required along the street frontage,
regardless of the requirement in Table
6.5.1, REQUIRED BUFFERS, unless modified by the permit-issuing authority.
   E.   OPTIONS
      1.   The permit-issuing authority may consider buffers that include a
combination of existing plant material, newly planted material, constructed
walls or fences, berms, and grade changes in cases where the applicant can
demonstrate that the proposed alternative buffer will be at least as effective
as the type buffer required.
      2.   The Administrative Manual provides drawings and examples to guide
staff in determining the sufficiency of existing landscaping.
   F.   OWNERSHIP OF BUFFERS
      1.   No required buffer in a residential development shall be included
within any single family lot, or be wholly owned (in fee simple absolute) by
the owner of an individual residential building lot zoned for residential uses.
Buffers in residential developments shall be owned by a homeowner’s association
or other entity charged with its preservation and the preservation of existing
landscaping.
      2.   The required buffer for a non-residential, multi-family or mixed use
site may be owned by a property owner’s association or by the property owner.
   G.   DEVELOPMENT WITHIN REQUIRED BUFFER
      1.   The required buffer shall not contain any development, impervious
surfaces, or site features that do not function to meet the standards of this
section or that require removal of existing vegetation, unless otherwise
permitted by this Ordinance.
      2.   No grading, development, or land-disturbing activities shall occur
within the buffer or within the tree protection area unless approved by the
permit issuing authority.
      3.   Sidewalks, walkways, trails and fences may be placed in buffers
provided that damage to existing vegetation is minimized.
      4.   Utilities are not permitted in buffers unless no reasonable
alternative exists.
      5.   If utilities are placed in a buffer, they shall be located and
installed in a way that minimizes disturbance of the buffer area. Utility lines
may not run parallel to and within required buffers, but may cross required
buffers as near to perpendicular an angle as possible, and in any event at no
less than a 60° angle. If utilities, stormwater drainage channels or piping,
and other similar features are placed in a buffer any way other than
perpendicular or not less than at a 60 degree angle, the area making up the
utility easement or area shall be replaced with an equal amount of buffer area.
No canopy trees may be removed for utility installation unless no reasonable
alternative exists.
      6.   Stormwater BMPs and impoundments may be placed within a required
buffer only when the applicant demonstrates that no reasonably practicable
alternative exists, and provided that the performance standard of the buffer
can be maintained. Bioretention areas may be placed within buffers without
additional justification provided the performance standard of the buffer is
maintained.
   H.   MAINTENANCE OF BUFFERS
      1.   Where a buffer is owned by a property owners association, the
covenants for the development shall require that association to maintain the
buffers and shall include a buffer maintenance plan.
      2.   For parcels that contain a buffer as part of a permit requirement,
the property owner shall maintain the buffer. The site will be inspected at the
end of the second growing season following permit issuance for compliance and
during any subsequent development review to ensure continued compliance.
Figure 6-2: REQUIRED BUFFER PLACEMENT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-250.jpg]
 
Table 6.5.1: Required Buffers
Applicant Zoning
                 RA-20 R-20 MH R-15 R-10 R-8 R-6 R-6 MH NB CB HB I
Applicant Zoning
                 RA-20 R-20 MH R-15 R-10 R-8 R-6 R-6 MH NB CB HB I
RA-2 0                                                  A     A  C
R-20 MH                                                 A     A  C
R-15                                                    A     A  C
R-10                                                    A     A  C
R-8                                                     A     A  C
R-6                                                     A     A  C
R-6 MH                                                  A     A  C
NB               A     A       A    A    A   A   A
CB               A     A       A    A    A   A   A
HB               B     B       B    B    B   B   B               A
I                C     C       B    B    B   B   B      B  B  B
 
6.6   CREATION OF NEW BUILDING LOTS
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by regulating the creation of new building lots in
order to protect and preserve the appearance, character, and value of adjacent
properties.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   All new residential and non-residential lots must meet the following
requirements.
   C.   NEW LOT REQUIREMENTS
      1.   New lots shall generally have four sides and generally not have more
than 8 sides to facilitate the enforcement of setback requirements and ensure
that each lot is generally usable for its intended building proposed, unless
existing topographic or natural features such as a stream or ridgeline acts as
a boundary.
      2.   New building lots shall not have appendages less than twenty (20 )
feet in width and more than twenty (20) feet in length created to provide
street access or to enable the lot to meet minimum lot size or frontage
requirements.
      3.   Lots in residential zoning districts must have at least thirty (30)
feet of frontage on a public or private street the lot uses for access.
      4.   Unless otherwise approved by the permit issuing authority, all lots
shall meet the lot width requirement specified in Section
6.3, GENERAL DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS at the front setback line. The permit
issuing authority may waive this requirement during review of a Special Use
Permit for a development after consideration of lot depth, lot width, general
usability of the building envelop on the parcel, and compatibility of the
proposed lots with existing and proposed neighboring lots.
   D.   USABILITY OF LOTS
      1.   New lots created for building purposes must contain a buildable area
at least 10 feet wide and at least 10 feet deep after application of setbacks
requirements.
      2.   No new lot shall be created for building purposes that contains an
area wholly within the required setbacks of opposing lot sides.
   E.   DIVERSITY IN SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED HOME NEIGHBORHOODS
In an effort to prevent monotonous and sterile built environments in areas
containing single family detached dwellings, and to mimic the diverse character
of many residential neighborhoods in the planning jurisdiction, variability of
lot widths and lot sizes within new developments is encouraged.
      1.   Single family detached home developments containing 20 or more lots
must have at least 3 different lot widths on each straight street section (may
be multiple blocks) longer than 400 feet. Contiguous lot widths must vary by at
least 10 feet to meet this standard.
      2.   Single family detached home developments containing 20 or more lots
may provide an equal number of lots 10% smaller than the minimum lot size for
each lot proposed that is 30% or more larger than the minimum lot size.
      3.   Single family detached home developments requiring a Special Use
Permit may include lots up to 10’ narrower than the district minimum standard
and/or 10% smaller than the district minimum standard to meet the diversity
standard established above and to maximize lot diversity, provided, however,
that the average lot width and acreage lot area in the development must meet
the district minimum standards.
6.7   DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL NEW NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by regulating the appearance of non-residential
construction in order to protect and preserve the appearance, character, and
value of adjacent properties. Where existing conditions such as limited
visibility of the building or features make satisfying these requirements
unnecessary or non-compliance with the design requirements achieves another
town goal, the permit-issuing authority may modify the requirements based on
competent evidence provided by the applicant to establish that alternatives
provided by the applicant will satisfy the purpose and intent of the design
requirements, and will protect the use, enjoyment and value of adjoining
properties.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   All new non-residential buildings must meet the following general
principles.
   C.   ARTICULATION
      1.   The facade shall be articulated with design features or employ a
level of architectural detailing sufficient to ensure visual interest and
promote pedestrian scale
      2.   Design elements such as windows, columns, or bay spacing shall be
kept as consistent as possible along the front façade
      3.   Building mass shall be articulated as individual vertical bays
      4.   Architectural features such as recesses and projections, door and
window rhythm, columns, piers, varied rooflines, and brick patterns shall be
used to divide and create vertical orientation
      5.   Horizontal design elements such as large fascias or banding designs
are discouraged and shall be balanced with vertical elements
      6.   The proportion of structural elements such as posts and columns
shall be appropriately scaled to the weight they appear to be carrying.
   D.   AWNINGS
      1.   The use of fabric awnings is encouraged for facades with retails
display windows and other façade glass. Awnings constructed of material more
substantial than fabric, or integrated into the building structure, are
permitted only to protect customer access via a porte cochere.
   E.   BUILDING MASS
      1.   The majority of the building mass shall be placed close to the front
property line to help define the street edge
      2.   On corner lots the building mass shall be placed as near to the
intersection as possible to anchor the lot
   F.   DRIVE-THROUGH WINDOWS, CANOPIES, AND PORTE COCHERES
      1.   Drive-through windows, canopies, and porte cocheres shall be located
on the side or rear of the building.
      2.   Drive-through windows, canopies, and porte cocheres shall be
designed to be an integral part of the building architecture.
   G.   FAÇADE/ STREET EDGE
      1.   The front facade shall be oriented toward the street.
      2.   The exposure of the front façade shall be maximized by placing as
much of the building width as possible at the front of the lot.
      3.   The front façade shall be integrated with the overall building
architecture.
      4.   The tallest façade of the building shall be oriented toward the same
street that the primary entrance faces.
      5.   False facades and similar applied designs are prohibited.
      6.   The first floor shall be architecturally differentiated from upper
floors.
      7.   The use of porches, colonnades, canopies, or awnings on the front
façade is encouraged.
      8.   The “street-edge” shall be reinforced by aligning the building
façade with neighboring buildings which are close to the front setback line.
Landscaping can also be used to reinforce this line.
   H.   FENESTRATION
      1.   New non-residential buildings shall not have a blank wall oriented
to a public street.
      2.   Openings such as windows and doors shall account for a minimum 50%
on the pedestrian side of the ground floor and 30% of the pedestrian side on
the upper floors.
      3.   Street level glazing shall be visually transparent, although UV
coatings are permitted.
      4.   Reflective glass is prohibited on street level windows.
      5.   Windows shall have vertical orientation and have a minimum ratio of
1:2 except where storefront sheet glass or picture windows are employed.
      6.   Faux windows are prohibited.
      7.   Larger scale design features such as garage doors shall be placed at
the side or rear of the facility
      8.   The use of operable windows on upper floors of attached residential
and office uses is encouraged.
   I.   MATERIALS
      1.   Changes of building materials shall occur at a change of plane, such
as a recess, projection or an inside corner.
      2.   Structures shall not have material changes at their outside corners.
      3.   Primary building materials shall consist of wood, masonry, concrete,
glass, or stone.
      4.   Materials shall be kept consistent across the façade, unless
material changes are employed to enhance individual bays and occur at a change
of plane.
      5.   When multiple materials are used on a façade, one material should be
used as the dominant theme with the others acting only to compliment or
accentuate the design.
Figure 6-3: NON-RESIDENTIAL DESIGN STANDARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-252.jpg]
 
   J.   ORIENTATION/ENTRANCE LOCATION
      1.   All new primary buildings shall have entrances oriented toward, and
be accessible from the nearest public street.
      2.   Primary building entrances shall be clearly defined and articulated.
      3.   Primary building entrances shall be (a) placed at the front of the
building facing the front lot line and (b) clearly identifiable from the
street.
      4.   If it is not feasible to place the building entry directly on the
front façade, the entry shall be placed where it is readily visible and faces
the main road or internal street.
      5.   Pedestrian access to buildings shall be provided from the street and
from parking areas.
      6.   Entries from parking areas shall be secondary in articulation and
nature, relative to street entrances.
      7.   An entry shall be placed at least every 150 feet along the front
façade.
   K.    ROOF PITCH
      1.   Flat roofs shall be capped by an articulated parapet wall.
      2.   Sloped roof structures must maintain a pitch between 5:12 minimum
and 12:12 maximum on all primary roof areas (Not including dormers, entry
canopies, or similar elements)
      3.   Buildings with sloped roofs shall have roof overhangs between 6” and
18” deep.
      4.   The use of dormers and gables is encouraged on the front of
buildings with sloped roofs.
   L.   STORAGE AND OUTBUILDINGS
      1.   Storage buildings and outbuildings shall be located behind the
primary building.
      2.   Storage buildings and outbuildings shall be architecturally
compatible with the primary building.
   M.   TRANSPARENCY
      1.   Glass that is installed on the first floor of the front façade of
new buildings, within which the first floor occupants are intended to be
retail, restaurant or service business, will be transparent with low
reflectivity.
   N.   MOBILE OFFICES
      1.   No mobile home, travel trailer or other mobile style structure shall
be used as an office or in any manner for business or commercial purposes,
except when used for temporary purposes, such as construction offices and must
be removed within 72 hours after job completion.
6.8   RESERVED
6.9   DRIVEWAY CONNECTIONS
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by requiring that driveways shall be designed and
located so as to minimize the number of conflict points among vehicular
movements, to coordinate the location and the alignment of major driveway
connections (ingress to or egress from heavy traffic generators such as
shopping centers and supermarkets) and roadway intersections on opposite sides
of the intersected street, to discourage dangerous vehicular movements, to
minimize conflicts with pedestrian traffic, to avoid driveway connections at
locations where adequate, safe sight distances cannot be provided, and to
ensure driveway connections are designed to accommodate storm water runoff. The
use of cross access easements connecting independent, adjacent developments is
encouraged, so as to reduce the number of driveway curb cuts to the public
right-of-way.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   These requirements shall apply to all development types, except one and two-
family dwellings.
Figure 6-4: DRIVEWAY CONNECTIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-254.jpg]
 
   C.   DRIVEWAY REQUIREMENTS
      1.   No driveway shall be located within two hundred fifty (250) feet of
the intersection of a public street with an arterial or collector street unless
no other site access is legally practicable.
      2.   No drive shall be located closer than twenty-five (25) feet to the
right-of-way of any local street intersection. At intersections with traffic
signals, the Planning Director shall specify distances from the right-of-way to
allow for sufficient stacking of vehicles in the street prior to the driveway
location.
      3.   When access is available to a lot from streets of different
classifications (e.g., arterial, collector, sub-collector), the driveway will
be located so as to provide access to the lot from the street with the lower
classification.
      4.   In parking lots where large hourly volumes of entering traffic may
be expected, the developer shall provide a setback between pavement edge of the
public roadway and the edge of proposed internal drives to accommodate stacking
within the parking lot. This setback shall be determined by the Planning
Director based on standards required by NCDOT, the Institute of Traffic
Engineers, or other recognized standard.
      5.   On curb and gutter streets, the North Carolina Department of
Transportation standard concrete driveway ramp shall be used. The Planning
Director may allow street type driveway entrances for high volume traffic uses.
      6.   Driveway connections shall be designed to accommodate stormwater to
ensure that gravel does not wash into the public street. Connections which are
above the grade of the existing street shall be graded so that drainage is
directed into ditches designed to accommodate the drainage, or into the street
gutters. The driveway shall be at the same elevation as the existing street
across the width of the street right-of-way. If gravel or other materials wash
onto the public street, the property owner shall be responsible to remove the
material and establish safe conditions.
      7.   Driveways shall be a minimum of one hundred feet (100') apart when
access is to a collector or arterial street.
      8.   Driveways shall be clearly defined with the use of curbs and/or
landscaping.
      9.   Driveways on opposite sides of the street shall either be offset by
at least fifty feet (50') or aligned, unless such standards cannot be met for
safety reasons.
6.10   LANDSCAPING (PARKING LOT)
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by requiring the landscaping of parking areas in
order to reduce radiant heat from surfaces, reduce glare of automobile lights,
minimize stormwater and drainage problems, and protect and preserve the
appearance, character, and value of adjacent properties. Where existing
conditions such as topography, structures, or other existing features make
satisfying these requirements impractical, the permit-issuing authority may
modify the requirements based on competent evidence provided by the applicant
to establish that alternatives provided by the applicant will satisfy the
purpose and intent of the buffer and landscape requirements, and will protect
the use, enjoyment and value of adjoining properties.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   These requirements shall apply to all development types with the exception
of one and two family dwellings.
   C.   LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS
      1.   Parking lots shall contain at least 1 shade tree for every seven
parking spaces required for the site. These trees shall be located a sufficient
distance from existing overhead utility lines to ensure the health and growth
of the tree.
      2.   Trees shall be evenly distributed throughout the parking areas and
parking perimeter at the required ratio.
      3.   No more than 14 continuous parking spaces shall be allowed without a
minimum of 1 landscape island containing a shade tree.
      4.   All planting medians or islands in parking lots shall be at least
100 square feet measured from back of curb to back of curb (or pavement edge if
the island is not curbed for stormwater purposes). When an island contains one
or more shade trees, the island must have at least 300 square feet of unpaved
space per shade tree.
      5.   Linear planting strips between the lengths of parking isles are
encouraged rather than numerous small tree islands. If a linear strip is used,
15 shrubs (no taller than 3 feet at maturity) per 100 feet of planting strip
must be planted in addition to the required trees.
      6.   A minimum 10 foot wide continuous planted median shall be installed
in off-street parking areas for every 2 double loaded parking bays exceeding
122 feet in length. Alternative landscaping layouts and arrangements which
similarly visually break up large parking areas will be considered by the
permit issuing authority.
      7.   Parking facilities, unless located on or within a structure, shall
be separated from the exterior wall of a structure by a landscaped area at
least five (5) feet in width;
      8.   Ground level parking facilities and the ground level of multi-level
parking structures shall be screened from adjacent residential areas and
streets by means of opaque landscaping, fencing, or grade change of at least
three (3) feet in height above the grade of the edge of the parking area;
      9.   In meeting these standards, the retention of existing significant
vegetation shall be encouraged. The site plan submitted shall locate and
identify all existing and proposed trees and shrubs used for parking standards.
      10.   Landscaping and walkways shall be installed to indicate the
preferred travel pattern for pedestrians.
      11.   Landscaping shall be protected from damage by motor vehicles.
      12.   The permit issuing authority may modify requirements of this
section based on the specific needs of the location as long as they are
consistent with the regulations set forth in this section.
Figure 6-5: LANDSCAPING (PARKING LOT)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-256.jpg]
 
6.11   LIGHTING
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by establishing criteria and standards for
providing uniform lighting in outdoor public places where safety and security
are concerns, protecting drivers and pedestrians from disabling glare from non-
vehicular light sources that shine directly into their eyes and thereby impair
safe traverse, protecting neighbors from nuisance glare from poorly aimed or
inadequately shielded light sources, and providing lighting which is efficient
and compatible with surrounding uses and structures.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   Lighting plans shall demonstrate that sufficient light will be available to
provide security for property and people using public facilities and common
areas after dark. This includes, but is not limited to, roads, driveways,
walkways, bikeways, parking lots, and recreational areas. Lighting plans will
be reviewed as part of the review process for all permit applications.
Modifications to approved or existing lighting shall be submitted to the
Planning Director for review and compliance with applicable requirements.
   C.    LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS
   Lighting plans shall include a layout of proposed fixture locations
(including wall mounted lights, ground mounted lights, and illuminated signs),
foot candle data that demonstrate conforming intensities and uniformities; and
a description of the equipment (catalog cuts), glare control devices, lamps,
mounting heights and means, hours of operation, and maintenance methods
proposed. Illumination intensities (lighting contours) may be shown on an
independent plan or integrated with other required plans
   D.   MINIMUM LIGHT LEVELS
      1.   Parking areas, whether surface or in a structure, shall have a
minimum light intensity of 1.0 footcandles.
      2.   Interior sidewalks, those sidewalks that connect buildings to
parking areas, common areas, of facilities within a development that are likely
to be used at night, shall have a minimum light intensity of 0.5 footcandles.
      3.   Minimum lighting levels in this subsection are not required to be
met by nonresidential uses during non-business hours.
   E.   MAXIMUM LIGHT LEVELS
      1.   All outdoor lighting shall be designed and located such that the
maximum illumination measured in foot candles at the light source’s property
line shall not exceed two tenths (0.2) foot candle measured at ground level.
      2.   Light intensities shall not exceed fifteen (15) foot-candles at any
location on the site to limit glare and blinding caused by significant light
variations across a site. The permit issuing authority may consider an
applicant’s unique situations and use requirements during the development
review and may allow greater intensities within the site.
   F.   INSTALLATION
      1.   Lighting fixtures height shall not exceed the lesser of the maximum
permitted building height for the district, or the maximum height of the main
portion of the primary building on the site (excluding spires, towers, parapet
walls and the like) on the site. For sites where no building is proposed,
mounting height for fixtures shall not exceed fifteen (15) feet for non-cutoff
type fixtures or twenty-five (25) feet for cut-off type fixtures. This
provision shall not apply to outdoor athletic field and outdoor performance
area lighting provided the other applicable requirements of this section are
met.
      2.   Electrical feeds to lighting standards shall be run underground, not
overhead.
      3.   Lighting standards in parking areas shall be protected from vehicle
impact with protective barriers or by location. Standards should not be placed
so as to obstruct pedestrian movement along sidewalks or medians.
      4.   Directional lighting fixtures used for sign lighting shall be top
mounted so lighting is aimed down. Ground mounted signs with a height of five
(5) feet or less may be ground lit, provided that the lights are shielded so as
to illuminate the sign only, and the light shall not exceed 10 foot-candles at
the sign surface.
      5.   Fixtures shall be of the sharp cut-off type. No portion of the
fixture bulb may extend below the fixture housing. Non-cutoff type fixtures may
be used if approved by the permit issuing authority with good cause shown
during the permit review and such fixtures meet the other standards of this
section.
      6.   Unshielded wall fixtures shall not be used as security or general
lighting adjacent to residential uses or to a public right of way.
      7.   Landscape plantings shall be located and maintained so that they do
not block light from reaching the intended surfaces.
      8.   The placement of light fixtures should indicate the desired traffic
flow and aid pedestrian safety, especially in areas with potential conflict
between pedestrians and vehicles.
Figure 6-6: EXTERIOR LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-258.jpg]
 
   G.   CONTROL OF NUISANCE AND DISABLING GLARE
      1.   All outdoor lighting, shall be designed, installed and maintained in
a manner which does not present a disabling glare hazard to drivers or
pedestrians; and all reasonable means shall be taken to prevent projection of
nuisance glare onto neighboring properties or into the night sky.
      2.   Lighting for sports and athletic fields must include glare control
features and must be designed so that primary illumination is directed onto the
play area and ancillary areas such as bleachers, stands, and similar areas. All
lighting fixtures for sports fields must be equipped with a glare control
package including louvers, shields, or similar devices. The fixtures must be
aimed so that their beams are directed and fall within the primary playing or
performance area.
      3.   Non-security lighting shall be extinguished when the operation is
closed or not in use. In reviewing lighting plans, the permit issuing authority
may consider the impact of lighting on neighboring properties based on stated
hours of operation, topographical differences across sites, and other
considerations.
      4.   Glare control shall be accomplished primarily through the proper
selection and application of lighting equipment and shielding. Only after those
means have been exhausted shall vegetation, fences, or similar buffer methods
be considered for reducing glare.
   H.    MAINTENANCE
      1.   Lighting fixtures used for safety and security lighting shall be
maintained in proper working order so as to always meet the requirements of
this Ordinance.
6.12   MOBILE HOME PARKS
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by regulating the creation or alteration of new and
existing mobile home parks within the Town’s jurisdiction to protect and
preserve the appearance, character, and value of adjacent properties.
   B.   DESIGN STANDARDS
   All new or existing mobile home parks must meet the following requirements
on the park plan before a special use permit can be issued. Mobile homes within
each park must conform to the standards set forth in Section
5.2(K) DWELLING, MOBILE HOME.
           1.   Every mobile home park shall be located on a tract of land not
less than five (5) acres in size and shall contain at least fifteen (15) mobile
home spaces, as defined in this section.
      2.   Every mobile home space shall consist of a minimum of 5,000 square
feet. Each mobile home space shall be clearly established on the ground by
permanent corner monuments or markers.
          3.   No more than one mobile home may be set up on any mobile home
space.
      4.   The supports of all mobile homes parked within an authorized park
shall rest upon footings which meet the state regulations for mobile homes.
         (a)   Each mobile home space shall have at least one (1) raised porch
of at least fifteen (15) square feet. All and any additional porches must
comply with the North Carolina State Building Code.
         (b)   A paved walkway two feet wide (minimum) leading from the road or
off-street parking space to the patio shall be provided.
         (c)   Each walkway shall be graded and properly drained to prevent
ponding.
      5.   No mobile home shall be located less than forty (40) feet from a
public street right-of-way. No mobile home shall be located less than fifteen
(15) feet from a private drive or from an exterior park boundary, or less than
thirty (30) feet from another mobile home, a mobile home addition or any
structure.
      6.   A driveway and parking space sufficient to accommodate at least two
automobiles shall be constructed within each mobile home space and shall be
paved or covered with crushed stone or other suitable material.
      7.   The mobile home park shall be located so as not to be susceptible to
flooding and graded so as to prevent any water from ponding or accumulating on
the premises. Where storm drainway pipes are located in adjacent streets,
underground drainage facilities with connections to the storm drainage system
shall be provided for the mobile home park when needed so long as the capacity
of the existing system can handle the additional load.
      8.   Each mobile home space shall be graded to provide adequate storm
drainage away from the mobile home.
      9.   The mobile home park shall have hard-surfaced roads and streets.
Streets abutting all mobile home spaces must be lighted at night.
      10.   No mobile home space shall have direct vehicular access to a public
street.
      11.   A drainage area to provide proper drainage ditches and a three to
one back slope shall be provided where determined necessary by the Town
Council, Public Work Director, or Planning Director. Park owners shall provide
a drainage easement to the town for all drainage ditches.
      12.   Closed ends of dead-end streets shall be provided with an
adequately paved vehicular turning circle at least 60 feet in diameter or a
turning "Y" with an angle of at least 90 degrees.
      13.   Each mobile home space shall have adequate access, for both the
mobile home and autos, with a minimum access width of 20 feet unless more is
deemed necessary because of topographical conditions or street curvature.
      14.   When the mobile home park has more than one direct access to a
public street, each street access shall not be less than 300 feet apart or less
than 300 feet from a public street intersection unless topographical or site
conditions demand otherwise.
      15.   SIGNS FOR IDENTIFICATION
         (a)   Mobile home parks shall be limited to one or not more than two
signs with a total area of not more than one-half square foot for each mobile
home space, and in no case larger than 50 square feet total located on the park
property, but no closer than five feet to any other than front property line.
         (b)   Only indirect, non-flashing lighting may be used for
illumination.
         (c)   The sign must be constructed in such a manner as to prevent a
direct view of the light source from any public street right-of-way.
      16.   The mobile home park shall have a Type B Buffer as defined under
Section
6.5, BUFFERS.
      17.   The following utility standards shall apply. In every mobile home
park, all installations (other than those within the mobile home itself) of
plumbing and electrical wiring and all gas appliances shall comply with the
provisions of the building, plumbing, electrical, heating and gas regulations
of the state, town and county.
         (a)   Utilities. All utilities shall be installed underground.
         (b)   Mobile home space utilities. Each mobile home space shall be
equipped with plumbing and electrical connections.
         (c)   Water supply.
            i.   Each mobile home park shall obtain water from the town water
supply when available, and when unavailable, from a source approved by the
County Health Department.
            ii.   The supply shall be adequate for the park requirements.
            iii.   The drinking, cooking, laundry and general bathroom water
supply for each individual mobile home shall be obtained only from faucets or
other plumbing connections located within each mobile home.
         (d)   Sewage disposal.
            i.   Each mobile home park shall be provided with an adequate
sewage disposal system, either by connection to a public sewage system or
septic tank system approved by the County Health Department.
            ii.   All sewage wastes from each mobile home park, whether from
individual mobile homes or mobile home spaces, shall be piped into the mobile
home park sewage disposal system.
      18.   Adequate and suitable recreation areas and facilities to serve the
needs of the anticipated population shall be provided and shall consist of at
least the following.
         (a)   One or more play lots for preschool children, containing a
minimum size and total area in the ratio shown in the table below; provided,
there shall be at least one lot within 400 feet of every mobile home.
         (b)   One or more playgrounds for school-age children and adults,
containing a minimum size and total area in the ratio prescribed as follows.
 
Table 6.12.1: MOBILE HOME PARK RECREATION AREA
Facility   Per Mobile Home Per 100 Mobile Homes Minimum Size of Single Facility
Play lot   12 sq. ft.      1,200 sq. ft.        400 sq. ft.
Playground 440 sq. ft.     One acre             10,000 sq. ft.
 
      19.   The mobile home park may have a central structure containing a
retail sales counter or coin-operated machines for the park residents' use
only; provided, they are completely enclosed within a building and there is no
exterior advertising; and, provided that, the structures shall not front on a
public street.
      20.   All bathing and laundry facilities and toilets shall be in
conformity with regulations of the County Health Department and the Town's
Plumbing Code for the structures.
      21.   Each mobile home shall be anchored per the requirements of the NC
State Building Code.
   C.   SPECIAL USE PERMIT; TEMPORARY OPERATING PERMIT REQUIRED.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a mobile
home park within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless the person shall first
obtain from the Town Council a special use permit as described in Section
3.8, SPECIAL USE PERMIT. The maintenance or operation of a mobile home park may
be continued under a temporary operating permit, as defined in Section
10.2, DEFINITIONS, for a period of time and under the conditions as are
prescribed in Section
6.12(C)(4) below.
      2.   The special use permit shall be issued and subsequently renewed if
the Planning Board and Council find that the applicable provisions of this
chapter and all town ordinances are satisfactorily complied with and, at the
time of the initial special use request.
      3.   No special use permit shall be issued for any mobile home park not
in operation upon the effective date of this chapter until the park plan has
been approved by the Town Council as provided for in Section
6.12(D), CONSTRUCTION OR ALTERATION OF PARK.
      4.   A temporary operating permit shall be issued by the Council
permitting a nonconforming park to be maintained and operated for a period of
six months subject only to the provisions of this chapter made expressly
applicable to the owner, or owners, lessee or agent.
   D.   CONSTRUCTION OR ALTERATION OF PARK.
      1.   General Provisions
         (a)   No person shall construct or engage in the construction of any
mobile home park or make any addition or alteration to a mobile home park that
either alters the number of sites for mobile homes within the park or affects
the facilities required therein until he or she first secures a special use
permit authorizing the construction, addition or alteration.
         (b)   The construction, addition or alteration shall be done in
accordance with plans and specifications submitted with the application and
approved by the proper authorities.
         (c)   Procedures for the applicant securing this permit are described
in Section
3.8, SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
      2.   Before the Council shall review the special use request, a park
plan, described in Section
6.12(D)(8), Information Required for a Park Plan below, must be submitted for
review and approval by the Town Board.
         (a)   No plan is required to be prepared and approved for issuance of
a permit to make minor facility improvements in an existing mobile home park
where the number of mobile home sites within the park is not affected.
         (b)   When no plan is required, application for a building permit may
be made directly to the Building Inspector.
      3.   Five (5) copies of the park plan shall be submitted and, upon
approval by the Council, each copy shall be signed by the Mayor and Town Clerk,
denoting town approval. One copy shall be returned to the park owner or
developer, one copy shall be submitted to the Town Manager to be held for
public view, one copy shall be sent to each of the Department of Public Works
and the Inspections Department, and the fifth copy shall be retained by the
Council for its records.
      4.   The approved park plan becomes part of the conditions for the
special use and must be constructed and maintained accordingly in order to
retain the permit. The Building Inspector shall make an examination of the
construction at any reasonable time to determine whether the work is being done
according to approved plans and specifications. The owner shall make available
any records, test data or other information essential to the determination.
      5.   When all specified improvements have been made, the Building
Inspector shall issue a certificate of occupancy and the developer may begin
moving in homes and begin operations.
      6.   Adherence to the operating standards prescribed in Section
6.12(E), OPERATING STANDARDS is another condition required for the special use
permit to be renewed.
      7.   The special use permit granted to a mobile home park shall not
expire. Special Use Permits may be revoked if the Town Council determines that
all the conditions as required by the Special Use Permit when issued, have not
been met or observed. If the permit is revoked by the Town Council, operation
of the park must cease within six (6) months of the date of revocation of the
Special Use Permit.
      8.   INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR PARK PLAN
         (a)   The park plan shall be drawn on reproducible sheets to a scale
of not less than one inch equals 40 feet and shall show the following on one or
more sheets.
         (b)   The name of the mobile home park and the names and addresses of
the owner or owners and the designer of the park;
         (c)   Date, approximate north arrow and scale;
         (d)   The boundary line of the tract with accurate linear and angular
dimensions drawn to scale and the area of the park in square feet or acres;
         (e)   Contours with a vertical interval of one foot referred to sea
level datum and elevations of existing streets, roads, drives, walks, curbs,
catch basins and the like;
         (f)   A location map with a scale no less than one inch equals 1,000
feet showing the location of the mobile home park;
         (g)   The locations of existing and platted property lines, streets,
buildings, water courses, railroads, bridges, water mains, sewers, culverts,
drainpipes and any utility easements. The Town Council or Zoning Administrator
may require similar information to be shown on proposed park boundaries. The
names of adjoining subdivisions or the names of recorded owners of adjoining
parcels of unsubdivided land shall also be indicated;
         (h)   The names, proposed location and approximate dimensions of
proposed streets, alleys, driveways, entrances, exits, walkways, easements,
recreation areas, parks and open spaces, reservations, mobile home spaces,
mobile homes , parking areas and building lines within the park. In all cases
the proposed characteristics shall be shown in a manner that shall distinguish
them clearly from the existing characteristics of the land;
         (i)   When deemed necessary by the Town Engineer, profiles of all
proposed public or private streets or drives, showing natural and finished
grades drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 40 feet horizontal and
one inch equals four feet vertical;
         (j)   Plans of proposed utility layouts (sewer lines, septic tank
locations, septic tank drainfields and water and storm drainage) showing
feasible connections to existing and proposed utility systems to be prepared by
a civil engineer or registered land surveyor;
         (k)   Proposed storm drainage for each mobile home space and for the
entire mobile home park including all proposed grading and sewer installations
which may be deemed necessary to ensure proper drainage and the elimination of
ponding. Proper drainage requires a storm drainage capacity to the 100-year
storm level;
         (l)   Location and number of garbage receptacles;
         (m)   A detailed plan for all electrical installations prepared to
meet the National Electrical Code and state and local codes or ordinances;
         (n)   Where public water or a public sewer is not available, a written
statement from the County Health Department shall be submitted with the mobile
home park plan indicating that the mobile home park has adequate land area and
suitable soils and topography to accommodate the proposed methods of water
supply and sewage disposal; and
         (o)   A detailed drawing to a scale of not less than one inch equals
five feet shall be prepared of a typical mobile home space showing the location
of the mobile home stand, all utilities and the mobile home utility
connections, the patio, concrete footing, walks, parking spaces, driveways and
all other improvements.
   E.   OPERATING STANDARDS.
   The following operating standards shall be conditions to any special use
permit to operate a mobile home park and, as such, must be maintained in order
to qualify for continued operation of park under the Special Use Permit.
          1.   MOBILE HOME SALES IN MOBILE HOME PARKS
      It shall be unlawful to conduct on a commercial basis the sale of mobile
homes or travel trailers within a mobile home park.
      2.   RESIDENTIAL UNITS NOT TO BE TRAVEL TRAILERS
      No mobile home park shall permit a travel trailer, as herein defined, to
locate within its boundaries for periods greater than one week if used for any
dwelling purposes whatsoever.
      3.   REGISTRATION
         (a)   It shall be the duty of the operator of the mobile home park to
keep an accurate register containing a record of all mobile homes, owners and
occupants of the mobile home park. The register shall contain the following
information:
            i.   Names and addresses of the owners and/or tenants;
            ii.   The mobile home space in which the mobile home is parked;
            iii.   Date of entering the park; and
            iv.   Date of leaving the park;
         (b)   The operator shall keep the register available at all times for
inspection by law enforcement officials, public health officials and other
officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in
the register.
      4.   MOBILE HOME EQUIPMENT
      Each mobile home shall have and be fully operational, a flush toilet,
lavatory, bathtub or shower, cooking facilities and electric wiring and shall
be required to connect with the utilities provided at each mobile home space.
      5.   REFUSE DISPOSAL
         (a)   All garbage and refuse in every mobile home park shall be stored
in suitable watertight and fly-tight receptacles which shall be kept covered
with closely fitting covers. The size and type of all garbage receptacles shall
be in conformance with town standards.
         (b)   No person shall throw or leave garbage or refuse upon the
grounds of any mobile home park.
         (c)   It shall be the duty of the mobile home park operator to
personally make certain that all garbage and refuse are regularly disposed of
in a sanitary manner.
            i.   If the mobile home park is located within the corporate
limits, the town will pick up and dispose of the garbage and refuse.
            ii.   If the mobile home park is located outside of the corporate
limits, the mobile home park operator shall be responsible for the pickup and
disposal of the garbage in a manner satisfactory to the town and the County
Health Department.
      6.   HEALTH REGULATIONS
      All county health regulations shall apply to mobile home parks within the
jurisdiction of the town, except where the regulations are in conflict with the
provisions of this section, in which case the more restrictive provisions shall
apply.
      7.   TIEDOWNS
      The owner of the mobile home park shall be responsible to see that each
mobile home parked within the mobile home park is properly tied down.
      8.   FIRE PREVENTION AND DETECTION
      In addition to the fire prevention regulations, the following shall
apply.
         (a)   The operator of a mobile home park is responsible for informing
each park resident of the location of the nearest fire alarm box, if any; the
location of an accessible telephone and the telephone number to be used to
report fires; and procedures to be followed in case of a fire.
         (b)   The park owner shall install a fire extinguisher labeled as
suitable for class A, B and C fires and of a type approved by the Town Fire
Department in each building open to the public and in the park office. The park
staff shall be instructed in the proper use of any fire protection equipment
available in the park and their specific duties in the event of fire shall be
defined.
         (c)   The park owner or operator shall maintain the park area free of
rubbish, dry brush, leaves, weeds and any other materials which might
communicate fires between mobile homes and other buildings.
         (d)   Empty liquefied petroleum gas containers and other objects and
materials not approved by the Fire Department shall not be stored under mobile
homes.
   F.   NONCONFORMING PARKS.
      1.   All mobile home parks existing at the time of the adoption of this
chapter and not conforming to the requirements herein must apply for a
temporary operating permit as provided for in Section
6.12(C), SPECIAL USE PERMIT; TEMPORARY OPERATING PERMIT REQUIRED.
      2.   The park owner must submit a compliance plan to the Planning
Director not later than 60 days prior to the expiration date of the temporary
operating permit in order to apply for a special use permit. This plan shall be
reviewed by the Planning Board and Council and shall become a condition to the
special use, if granted. The park owner shall choose one of three alternatives
as follows.
         (a)   If no compliance plan is submitted, the park owner shall be
considered to have chosen not to comply with both the design and operating
standards as described in Section
6.12(B), DESIGN STANDARDS and Section
6.12(E), OPERATING STANDARDS or with the operating standards only and does not
seek a special use permit. In this case the owner has chosen the alternative of
ceasing operation upon the expiration date of his or her temporary operating
permit.
         (b)   If the compliance plan shows adherence to only the operating
standards as described in Section
6.12(E), OPERATING STANDARDS, the park owner is deemed to wish a special use
permit to operate under those standards. This permit may be issued by the Town
Council for a period of two years, but cannot be renewed more than twice, for a
total of six years. At the end of this period the park must close. The park
owner may change his or her mind and submit a plan for conformance to both
design and operating standards and apply for a permit as provided for in
Section
6.12(F)(2)(c) below. A permit must be granted before the special use permit
issued under this section has expired.
         (c)   If the park owner wishes to continue operation indefinitely, the
compliance plan must not only indicate observance of the operating standards,
but must indicate how the park plans to comply with the design standards as set
forth in Section
6.12(B), DESIGN STANDARDS with the following exceptions:
            i.   Requirements in Sections
6.12(B)(1),
6.12(B)(2),
6.12(B)(7) and
6.12(B)(14) are eliminated entirely;
            ii.   Requirements in Section
6.12(B)(4), the requirement of paved walkways is eliminated;
            iii.   Requirements in Section
6.12(B)(5), the dimensions may be reduced by 50%;
            iv.   Requirements in Section
6.12(B)(9), the requirement that the private roads be hard-surfaced is
eliminated;
            v.   Requirements in Section
6.12(B)(16), the Type B Buffer may be reduced to a ten (10) foot planting strip
adjacent to the park boundary extending along the entire perimeter of the
mobile home park. It shall be planted with evergreen or deciduous trees not
more than twenty (20) feet apart and adequately landscaped with grass and
shrubbery in such a manner as to be harmonious with the landscaping of the
adjacent properties and in keeping with the general character of the
surrounding neighborhood. The park owner may use existing vegetation and trees
that are located along the park perimeter to satisfy this requirement as long
as it meets or exceeds that required spacing and tree type as specified above.
A planting strip shall not be required in areas where it conflicts with
currently existing public utilities as determined by the Planning Director and
the Public Works Director. The planting strip must be planted and maintained
according to any current or future town policies;
            vi.   Requirements in Section
6.12(B)(17), the requirement of installing wiring underground is eliminated.
The park need not connect to city water and sewage systems, but if it does not
the park owner must obtain a letter or certificate from the County Health
Department stating that the water supply or sewage disposal system has the
approval of the Health Department to continue in operation;
            vii.   Requirements in Section
6.12(B)(18), the recreational space requirements may be reduced to one area of
5,000 square feet. This area need not be oriented toward children if the park
consists primarily of retired couples or individuals; and
            viii.   Requirements in Section
6.12(B)(19), the location of an already existing building shall not be
regulated.
         (d)   The compliance plan submitted under this third alternative must
include a map showing the same information required of a park plan Section
6.12(D)(8). It must show how this new plan differs from the present park and it
must include a yearly time table indicating completion of the plan within three
years.
      3.   In no case shall a mobile home, which has been removed for any
reason, be replaced unless and until a compliance plan for the non-conforming
park has been approved by the Council as provided for in Section
6.12(F)(2)(c) above.
      4.   If, at any future time, a nonconforming mobile home park wishes to
expand in total size or in number of mobile homes, the owner must obtain a new
special use permit with the requirement that the new section be brought into
complete compliance with all standards.
         (a)   The old nonconforming section may continue with a nonconforming
status, as herein provided.
6.13   OPEN SPACE
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by requiring the dedication of a portion of land
for the purpose of preserving open space and the protection of significant
natural features and/or cultural resources.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   Every applicant for a Special Use Permit or Master Plan for residential and/
or non-residential purposes involving the creation of multiple lots from a
parent parcel shall be required to dedicate a portion of the parcel for the
purpose of preserving open space, and to preserve significant natural features
and/or cultural resources.
   C.   DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS
      1.   The applicant shall provide land for open space within the proposed
development equal to 10% of the gross parcel (development tract) area unless
the development is a Conservation Subdivision, in which case the requirement is
35% of the gross parcel (development tract).
      2.   Open space shall be accessible to all lots in the development
through a combination of direct access to the street and sidewalks, walkways or
connecting paths.
Figure 6-7: OPEN SPACE ILLUSTRATIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-262.jpg]
 
   D.   PERMITTED USES WITHIN OPEN SPACE:
      1.   Buffers required in Section
6.5, BUFFERS
      2.   Undeveloped land without a designated purpose held by a property
owners association or non-profit conservation entity
   E.   PROHIBITED USES WITHIN OPEN SPACE:
      1.   Stormwater management ponds, swales, conveyances, and treatment
areas
      2.   Recreation space
      3.   Reserved rights of way
      4.   Utility, drainage, or access easements
      6.   Any land held in private ownership rather than commonly held by a
property owners association or non-profit conservation entity
   F.   ADDITIONAL PERMITTED USES WITHIN OPEN SPACE AREAS
      1.   Open space has no purpose that requires the construction of
structures or modification of the existing landscape or grade. An applicant may
propose fences, community gardens, and passive uses including walking trails,
available to the public or restricted to occupants of the development, at the
time of development review. The applicant shall construct any trails proposed,
which may count toward a recreational requirement in Section 6.16, Recreation
Sites.
      2.   Utility easements may cross common open space if necessary to
connect to the area network. To the maximum extent practicable, utility
easement intersections with open space shall be perpendicular to minimize land
disturbance. In no case shall a utility easement run coincident with an area of
common open space for a length of more than 50 feet without specific
authorization by the permit issuing authority and a plan for mitigating the
impact of the disturbance on the intent of the open space.
      3.   Design Requirements
      All residential developments shall provide walkways connecting residences
and open or common areas. This may be accomplished with sidewalks along street
frontages or walkways through recorded access or utility easements.
   G.   LAND CHARACTERISTICS
      1.   To prevent open space from becoming a nuisance, all open space
within a development shall be accessible from a public right of way.
      2.   Open space shall be arranged to have both contiguity and
connectivity within the development dedicating the open space and to any
surrounding dedicated open space. For the purposes of this paragraph,
contiguity shall mean that the parcel being offered as open space is of
sufficient area to be meaningful in achieving the intent of open space and
connectivity shall mean that the parcel being offered as open space shall be
located so that a person or wildlife can move between open space parcels
without traveling across private property or along a public road or sidewalk.
6.14   PARKING, LOADING, AND CIRCULATION
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the general purpose and intent of this section to provide for off-
street parking and loading areas that are safe, convenient and of adequate size
for the particular use or uses proposed. No Zoning Compliance Permit or
Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued for uses of land, structures, and
buildings, either initially, or for a change in use, or expansion of an
existing use, unless the off-street parking and loading requirements of this
section are met.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   The requirements of this section apply to all developments, regardless of
zoning designation, with the exception of one and two family detached houses.
   C.   OFF-STREET PARKING PROVISIONS
      1.   GENERAL
      Each of the following uses shall provide off-street parking spaces in
accordance with the table below; except for properties located in CB District
as detailed in Section
6.14(C)(2), MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED IN THE CB DISTRICT. The
term "per employee" shall mean per employee at the time the maximum number of
employees are present.
      2.   MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED IN THE CB DISTRICT
      Due to the presence of on-street and off-street public parking and the
overlapping and walkable nature of areas zoned Central Business, the
requirement of parking applies by square feet of building within the entire
Central Business district rather than use by use. For every 500 square feet of
gross floor area within the CB district, one parking space shall be provided.
      3.   MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED OUTSIDE THE CB DISTRICT
      The following Table establishes the formulas to be used to calculate the
number of parking spaces required for a particular use. If no specific parking
standard is established in this Table for a particular use, the permit issuing
authority shall apply the most analogous standard. Some uses identified in this
Table are not identified the Table of Permitted Uses as specific uses.
Nevertheless, parking standards for the most similar use shall apply.
      4.   PARKING PROVISIONS FOR USES NOT SPECIFICALLY LISTED
      Any use not listed specifically in Table
6.14.1, MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED shall meet the off-street
parking and loading requirements determined by the permit-issuing authority. In
making the determination, the permit-issuing authority shall use the standards
as set forth in Table
6.14.1, MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED for those uses which they
find most similar to the proposed use.
   D.   JOINT PARKING FACILITIES
      1.   The required parking for multiple, separate and complementary uses
located in any zoning districts may be combined in one lot, subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   The off-street parking spaces allotted to each use shall be
shown on the application for a Zoning Compliance Permit;
         (b)   The distance between the primary entrance of the structure
housing the use to be served and the farthest allotted parking space for that
use shall not exceed one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) feet.
         (c)    Spaces assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use
at the same time or any other time, except that upon the presentation of
competent evidence demonstrating the adequacy of shared parking facilities, up
to one-half of the parking spaces required for uses such as, but not limited
to, churches, theatres, and assembly halls, the peak attendance at which is
expected to be outside typical business hours (Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to
5 p.m.) may be assigned to another use which will experience peak usage during
the day. The Planning Director shall make the determination relative to peak
usages.
         (d)   Cross easements shall be executed and recorded at the Duplin
County Register of Deeds to insure the continued availability of the parking
facility to the use it serves.
   E.   OFF-SITE PARKING
   The permit issuing authority may allow off-site parking to account for up to
50% of the required parking for any single use if sufficient operational
specificity and rationale are provided during the permit review including some
of the following:
      1.   Private shuttle or transit or valet is available between the remote
parking site and the use(s) it is intended to serve.
      2.   Private shuttle or transit service is provided for customers of the
business, bringing them to and taking them away from the site at their request
or scheduled intervals.
      3.   Shared parking with another facility utilizing spaces not needed to
meet the second facility’s requirements under this Ordinance.
      4.   Leasing of off-site spaces not allocated to another use under this
Ordinance.
   F.   COMPACT PARKING SPACES
   In parking lots with more than twenty-five (25) parking spaces, compact car
spaces may constitute up to twenty-five (25) percent of the total number of
spaces provided. Compact spaces shall be clearly and permanently designated on
the site plan and in parking areas.
Table 6.14.1: MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
USE TYPE REQUIREMENTS
Table 6.14.1: MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
USE TYPE                                REQUIREMENTS
Adult Uses                              1 per 200 square feet gross floor area
Amusement Arcades                       1 per game table, video game, amusement
                                        device
Athletic Field                          10 spaces
Banks & Financial Institutions          1 space per 300 square feet gross floor
                                        area
Bed & Breakfast                         1 per guest room plus 2 spaces for
                                        owner's portion
Billiard or Pool Hall                   2 per lane or table
Botanical Garden/Arboretum              2 spaces per acre
Bus Passenger Shelter                   none
Cemetery                                none
Child Day Care                          1 per 375 square feet gross floor area
Church, Place of Worship                1 per 8 seats
Club/Lodge                              1 per four members
Community Center                        1 per 6 seats or 1 per 30 square feet
                                        gross floor area if no permanent seats
Dwelling: Attached                      2 spaces per dwelling unit, plus 1
                                        visitor space per 5 dwelling units
Extended Care Facility                  0.3 per room
Extraction of Earth Products            1 per employee plus 1 per facility
                                        vehicle
Family Care Home                        0.3 per room
Family Child Care Home                  1 per 375 square feet gross floor area
Flex Space                              1 space per 300 square feet gross floor
                                        area
Funeral Home                            1 per 4 seats
Galleries/Museums                       1 per 1,000 square feet gross floor
                                        area
Government Facilities & Offices         1 per 300 square feet gross floor area
Greenhouses/Nursery                     1 per 375 square feet gross floor area
Group Care Facility                     0.3 per room
Health/Fitness Center/Club/Dance Studio 1 per 250 square feet gross floor area
Hospital/Medical Facilities             1 per 400 square feet gross floor area
                                        0.8 per room plus 1 per 800 square feet
Hotel & Motel                           of public meeting area and restaurant
                                        space
Junkyard, Vehicles                      1 per employee
Kennels, Boarding                       1 per 300 square feet gross floor area
Libraries                               1 per 300 square feet gross floor area
Mail Order Houses                       1 space per employee plus 3 visitor
                                        spaces
Manufacturing/Assembly Complex          1 space per employee plus 3 visitor
                                        spaces
Meeting Facility                        1 per 6 seats or 1 per 30 square feet
                                        gross floor area if no permanent seats
Mobile Home Park                        2 spaces per dwelling unit, plus 1
                                        visitor space per 5 dwelling units
Motor Vehicle Repair/Maintenance        1 per 375 square feet gross floor area
Service Stations
Motor Vehicle Sales/Rental              1 per 375 square feet gross floor area
Nightclubs, Bars                        1 per 2 seats
Offices & Personal Services             1 per 250 square feet gross floor area
Outlet Sales                            1 per 300 square feet gross floor area
Parking as Principle Use                None
Parks                                   4 spaces per developed acre plus
                                        recreation facility requirements
Performance Facility                    1 per 6 seats or 1 per 30 square feet
                                        gross floor area if no permanent seats
Personal Vehicle Sales                  1 per 375 square feet gross floor area
Petroleum Products Storage              1 per employee
Public Safety Services                  1 per 250 square feet gross floor area
Restaurants                             1 per 75 square feet gross floor area
Retail Sales & Rentals                  1 per 300 square feet gross floor area
Rooming/Boarding House                  1 per guest room plus 2 spaces for
                                        owner's portion
Schools: Elementary, Middle,            2.5 per classroom
Kindergarten
Schools: Secondary, Art, Music, Higher  1 per 4 students
Education
Schools: Vocational                     1 per 200 square feet
Skating Rink                            5 per 1,000 square feet gross floor
                                        area
Storage & Warehousing: Inside           1 per 600 square feet gross floor area
Storage & Warehousing: Outside          1 per 600 square feet gross floor area
                                        1 space per employee plus 2 customer
Storage & Warehousing: Self             spaces plus 1 space per 20 units for
                                        units with interior access only
Swimming Pool                           1 space per 100 square feet of pool
                                        area
Telecommunication Towers                1 per service employee
Tennis/Squash/Racquetball               2 spaces per court
Transit Passenger Terminal              1 per employee plus spaces required to
                                        satisfy peak parking needs
Transmission Lines                      none
Utilities                               1 per employee
Veterinarian Offices/Animal Hospital    1 per 300 square feet gross floor area
Water & Sanitary Sewer Pumping Stations none
Wholesale Sales                         1 per 375 square feet gross floor area
 
   G.   OFF-STREET PARKING SETBACK AND LOCATION
      1.   Parking spaces are considered structures for the purpose of
determining setback requirements as described in Section
6.3, GENERAL DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
      2.   All parking required by this ordinance shall be located on the
parcel where the use that required the parking is located with the following
exceptions:
         (a)   Uses that are specifically approved to use on street parking to
meet the ordinance requirements or uses occupying buildings in the CB district
that existed on the date of this ordinance and have not been enlarged.
         (b)   Uses that have approved joint parking arrangements
         (c)   Uses that have approved off-site parking arrangements
      3.   Access to Off-Street Parking
         (a)   Adequate vehicle accommodation area shall be provided for each
parking space in accordance with the standards of the American Society of
Highway and Traffic Officials;
         (b)   Common driveways with necessary cross-access easements to
parking facilities on adjacent properties shall be required where practicable,
giving consideration to the nature of the site and the traffic patterns on
adjacent streets;
         (c)   Access drives or driveways to off-street parking spaces or lots
shall conform to the design standards of the North Carolina Department of
Transportation or this Ordinance, whichever is stricter;
   H.   OFF-STREET PARKING GEOMETRIC REQUIREMENTS
   As shown in Figure
6-8, PARKING STALL MEASUREMENTS, the following are the minimum geometric
requirements for different types of off-street parking spaces:
      1.   Each 90° parking space shall at a minimum be 9 feet wide and 18 feet
in depth
      2.   Each 60° angled parking space shall at a minimum be 9 feet wide and
18 feet in depth
      3.   Each parallel parking space shall at a minimum be 9 feet wide and 23
feet in depth
      4.   Each compact parking space shall at a minimum be 8 feet 6 inches
wide and 16 feet in depth
Figure 6-8: PARKING STALL MEASUREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-264.jpg]
 
 
Table 6.14.2 OFF-STREET PARKING GEOMETRIC REQUIREMENTS
Parking Angle Stall Width Stall Depth Aisle Width
90            9'          18'         23'-27'
60            9'          18'         21'
0 (parallel)  9'          22'         12'
Dimensions given are for standard parking spaces.A minimum of 180 sq. ft. is
required for each parking space. The dimensions listed above are the minimum
allowed under each category.Aisle widths are for two-way traffic with the
same type of parking on both sides of the aisle. One-way aisles are allowed
a decrease of 25% of the required width.The permit-issuing authority may
adjust these requirements to accommodate compact parking, parking of
different angles, or expected traffic volumes.
 
   I.   OFF-STREET PARKING DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
      1.   Parking shall be placed at the side or rear of the lot and screened
from view consistent with landscaping requirements and screening requirements
in this section.
      2.   Visual impact of parking areas shall be reduced by locating the
parking areas away from right-of-ways
      3.   Surface parking shall not be located at street corners
      4.   Parking areas shall be broken up into groups of no more than 14
contiguous spaces separated by landscaped areas
      5.   Adjacent parking lots shall be connected by cross access easements
to provide shared parking areas whenever possible.
      6.   Off street parking shall not be located along any street frontage
that also has on-street parking.
      7.   All off-street parking spaces, vehicle accommodation areas, and
access areas shall be surfaced with an all-weather paving material, such as
asphalt, and maintained in a safe, sanitary, and neat condition. The use of
innovative and pervious surfaces for the use of parking is encouraged. Parking
is not permitted on landscaped areas.
      8.   Off-street parking spaces shall be designed to prevent interference
of parked vehicles with travel lanes, walkways, public property, or other
private property by means of walls, curbs, wheel stops, or other appropriate
means;
      9.   All parking areas shall be properly maintained by the owner of the
property;
      10.   If an applicant proposes to construct parking spaces in excess of
the number required by this ordinance, a pervious paving material must be used
to create the excess parking spaces.
      11.   Landscaping requirements as per Section
6.10, LANDSCAPING (PARKING LOT).
Figure 6-9: OFF-STREET PARKING DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-266.jpg]
 
   J.   OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
      1.   Industrial and commercial structures shall provide space for off-
street loading of vehicles, unless the applicant for such use can demonstrate
that such space is not required for the use.
      2.   The requirements for off-street loading are in addition to the
requirements for off-street parking. Space designated for compliance with off-
street parking requirements shall not be used to comply with the requirements
for off-street loading space and vice versa.
      3.   An off-street loading space, for the purposes of this section, shall
have a minimum width of twelve (12) feet, a minimum length of sixty (60) feet
and a vertical clearance of sixteen (16) feet above the finished grade of the
space.
      4.   Each off-street loading space shall be located and arranged so that
a semi-trailer truck can use it safely.
 
Table 6.14.3 USE TYPE AND OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES
Use Type                      Minimum Loading Requirements
                              One (1) space for each five thousand (5,000)
Retail Business               square feet of floor space or major fraction
                              thereof; no more than three (3) spaces are
                              required
Wholesale and Industrial Uses One (1)
 
   K.   DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
      1.   Delivery areas, loading docks, and service areas shall be located
behind the primary building.
      2.   Delivery areas, loading docks, and service areas shall be screened
from view so as not to be visible from the street.
 Figure 6-10: OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-270.jpg]
 
6.15   POSTING REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURES
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the general purpose and intent of this section to protect and promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare by requiring the posting of the
correct and current 911-address on each structure or residence.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   All new and existing residential and non-residential structures must meet
the requirements of this section.
   C.   TIME REQUIREMENTS
   Within 30 days of assignment or notification of change of a structure
number, the owner of said structure shall post the assigned structures current
and correct 911-address in compliance with the requirements herein.
   D.   POSTING LOCATIONS
   The official 911-address number must be displayed on the front of a building
or at the entrance to a building, which is most clearly visible from the street
or road during both day and night.
   If a building is more that seventy-five (75) feet from any road, the address
number shall be displayed at the end of the driveway or easement nearest the
road, which provides access to the building.
   E.   NUMBER SPECIFICATIONS
      1.    RESIDENTIAL NUMBERS
      Numeral indicating the address number of a single-family dwelling shall
be at least four (4) inches in height and shall be posted and maintained so as
to be legible from the road from both directions of travel. Numerals for
buildings with multiple dwelling units shall be at least six (6) inches in
height and shall able placed on the front of the building facing the road or on
the end of the building nearest the road. All apartment buildings will have
each apartment door numbered with a minimum of two (2) inch numbers. A number
larger than the minimum size may be required where the minimum size does not
provide adequate identification.
      2.   NON-RESIDENTIAL NUMBERS
      Numerals indicating the address number of non-residential buildings shall
be at least six (6) inches in height and shall able placed on the front of the
building facing the road or on the end of the building nearest the road. A
number larger than the minimum size may be required where the minimum size does
not provide adequate identification
      3.   The Planning Director shall have the right to authorize and approve
alternate methods of displaying address number, which meet the intent of this
article when strict adherence of these standards cannot reasonably be met.
      4.   All structure number shall be constructed of a durable material. The
color shall contrast with the color scheme of the structure and, if mounted on
glass, shall contrast with the background and be clearly visible.
   F.   MAINTENANCE OF STRUCTURE NUMBERS
   Following the posting of the assigned number as required herein, the owner
shall maintain the structure number at all times in compliance with the
requirements of this Section. The owner shall remove any different number that
might be mistaken for, or confused with, the number assigned in conformance
with this ordinance.
6.16    RECREATION SITES
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by requiring the dedication of a portion of land
for the purpose of providing recreation space and/or equipment in accord with
the Town of Wallace Parks and Recreation Master Plan.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   Every development proposal containing 5 or more residential units, whether
attached or detached, shall include dedication of a portion of the land for
public recreation to serve the leisure needs of the residents of the
development. If a development is proposed in a location recommended for
recreation improvements in the adopted Parks and Recreation Master Plan or
adopted small area plan, the development plan shall indicate the extent to
which the proposal fulfills the intent of the adopted plan.
   C.   CALCULATION OF REQUIRED AREA
   The applicant shall provide land for recreation, provide improvements for
recreation, provide fees in lieu of land and improvements, or provide a
combination of the above according to the following:
      1.   At least one thirty fifth (1/35) of an acre (.029 acres) shall be
dedicated for each dwelling unit shown in the plan, or
      2.   Detached dwelling units shall be assigned 12 recreation points per
dwelling. Points for each attached dwelling unit based on the number of
bedrooms per units shown in the plan shall be required for recreational
improvements according to Table
6.16.1, RECREATION POINTS AND ATTACHED DWELLING UNITS; or
 
Table 6.16.1: RECREATION POINTS AND ATTACHED DWELLING UNITS
Dwelling Units         Minimum Points Required
One bedroom unit       6.0
Two bedroom unit       9.5
Three or more bedrooms 12
 
      3.   Fees in lieu of dedication of recreational area and improvements may
be paid according to Section
6.16(I), PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF DEDICATION, for each dwelling unit shown in the
subdivision plan; or
      4.   A combination of the three above methods may be used to satisfy the
recreational dedication requirements, provided, however, that the final
approval of the applicant’s plan shall at all times remain with the permit
issuing authority.
      In the computation of recreational requirements: four hundred (420)
points shall be deemed to equal one (1) acre; and, when calculating a
combination of the above, the recreational space cannot be utilized more than
once (for example, a swimming pool which equals 356 points cannot use its 768
square feet of land in the acreage calculation). In all cases, the Parks and
Recreation Board shall review and make recommendations to the Planning Board
and Town Council on the applicant’s proposed provision or dedication of
recreational space; and, the Town Council shall make the final decision.
   E.   CHARACTERISTICS OF REQUIRED AREA
      1.   SITE SUITABILITY FOR ACTIVE RECREATION AREAS
         (a)   Land provided or dedicated for active recreational purposes
shall be of a character, slope and location suitable for use as play areas,
tennis courts, multipurpose courts, picnic areas, ball fields and other similar
recreation uses.
         (b)   Active recreation areas shall be located on land that is
relatively flat (0 to 7 1/2% slopes), free of wet lands and/or flood plains,
free of easements for public utility transmission lines, and otherwise capable
of accommodating active recreation uses.
      2.   SITE SUITABILITY FOR PASSIVE RECREATION AREAS
      Land provided or dedicated for passive recreation and open space purposes
shall be of a character, slope and location suitable for use for walking,
jogging, reading and similar quiet activities, and the preservation of natural
features and cultural resources such as steep slopes, rock outcrops, native
plant life and wildlife cover, nature woodlands and water resources.
      3.   LOCATION
      Land dedicated for recreation purposes shall be located so as to serve
the needs of the immediate residents of the subdivision. Recreation areas shall
be centrally located so as to provide relatively easy accessibility to all
residents of the subdivision; provided, however, recreation areas may be
approved in other locations where land more suited for recreation purposes due
to shape, level slopes and/ or dry soil conditions is present.
      4.   UNITY
      Land dedicated for recreation purposes shall be a single lot except where
it is determined that two (2) or more lots are suited to the needs of a
particular subdivision. The Planning Board may recommend, and the Town Council
may require, the dedication of a path connecting two or more recreation areas,
in addition to the land required in Section
6.16(C), CALCULATION OF REQUIRED AREA.
   F.   SITE IMPROVEMENTS
   Private recreation facilities either required or provided at the option of
the applicant, shall meet the standards for site improvements contained herein.
When choosing improvements for a recreational area, the anticipated
characteristics and needs of the residents/businesses shall be considered in
conjunction with the size of the development, any physical constraints posed by
the site, and the availability of other improvements within the same general
area as the subdivision. As an example, the existence of a multi-purpose court
in an adjacent, existing subdivision and the availability of the facility for
use by residents of the proposed subdivision may indicate to the applicant that
another facility, such as a tennis court, would be more appropriate. Recreation
facilities which are suitable for various age groups include, but are not
limited to those shown on the following pages. Trash receptacles shall be
provided for all recreational areas regardless of the number and type of other
improvements located thereon.
   In addition to land provided or dedicated for active recreation purposes,
sufficient area shall be provided to meet off-street parking requirements for
the proposed improvements as shown in Table
6.14.1, MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   G.   POINTS SYSTEM
   Active recreation areas shall be easily visible from and have direct access
to public street(s) and shall be designated as such on preliminary and final
plats.
   Active recreation areas and facilities shall be provided to such extent that
the sum total of recreation points assigned to each recreational area and
facility (under subsection b) equals or exceeds the number of recreation points
required in that development in accordance with the remaining provisions of
this section.
   For purposes of this subsection, a recreation point is a unit of measurement
that allows various types of recreational areas and facilities to be compared
to one another. The principal criterion upon which recreation points are
assigned to various facilities is the cost associated with the development of
such facilities. The following table establishes the recreation points
assignable to the facilities listed. Points for facilities not included on the
table below shall be determined by the permit issuing authority.
Table 6.16.2: RECREATION POINTS
Facility Points Per SF Typical Points Typical Square Ft
Table 6.16.2: RECREATION POINTS
Facility              Points Per SF Typical Points Typical Square Ft
Baseball Field        .010          675            67500
Basketball Court      .058          139            2400
Clubhouse             .508          610            1200
Fitness Station       .022          9              400
Football/Soccer Field .011          396            36000
Gazebo                .326          102            314
Hiking/Biking Trail   .016          64             4000
Picnic Shelter        .148          37             250
Play Equipment        .216          275            1275
Sandbox               .097          6              64
Swimming Pool         .463          356            768
Swimming Pool Patio   .020          56             2820
Tennis Court (1)      .034          245            7200
Tennis Court (2)      .028          403            14400
Tennis Court (4)      .025          720            28800
Volleyball Court      .014          25             1800
 
   The minimum total recreation points required of any attached dwelling
development shall equal the sum of the number of recreation points assigned to
each dwelling unit. Play equipment suitable for children under twelve shall
comprise at least five (5) percent of the total points required. Active
recreational facilities and areas should be located throughout the development
so that they can be reached safely and easily by their anticipated users. Such
facilities and areas must be on land that is suitable for the use intended,
have a minimum of twelve hundred (1200) square feet per area, and be
sufficiently buffered to minimize the impacts on adjacent residences.
   H.   METHOD OF PROVISION OR DEDICATION
   Land dedicated for public recreation area shall be designated on both the
preliminary and final plat(s) of the development and must be dedicated to an
appropriate unit of local government. Determination of the appropriate unit of
local government shall be made by the Town Council, upon recommendation from
the Parks and Recreation Board and the Planning Board. Acceptance of the
dedication may be one in trust if deemed appropriate by the Town Council. Land
provided for private recreation purposes must be conveyed to a property owners’
association subject to covenants and easements to be approved by the Planning
Board and Town Council and which provide for the continued maintenance and
control of the recreation area in a manner which assures its continuing use for
its intended purpose. The formal declaration of covenants and restrictions
shall be recorded in the Register of Deeds Office.
   I.   PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF DEDICATION
   Any applicant required to dedicate or provide recreation area pursuant to
this Ordinance may, with the approval of the Town Council, make a payment in
lieu of dedication or make a combination of land dedication and payment. Before
approving a payment in lieu of dedication, the Town Council shall find that no
recreation sites have been designated on the Master Parks and Recreation Plan
for the property in question.
   The amount of a payment in lieu of dedication shall equal the number of
acres required to be dedicated multiplied by the fair market value of the land
to be dedicated. Fair market value shall be determined by dividing the tax
appraisal of the property at last re-evaluation by the current year assessment
ratio.
   Upon approval by the Town Council, payment in lieu of dedication shall be
made at the time of final plat approval or within one year of approval of the
construction drawings, whichever occurs first. All monies received by the Town
of Wallace pursuant to this section shall be used only for the acquisition and/
or development within the same park district as shown in the Master Parks and
Recreation Plan of land for a public park facility . The Town Council has the
authority to sell land dedicated pursuant to these provisions, provided that
the proceeds of any such sale shall be used solely for the acquisition and/or
development of other recreation or park sites within the same park district.
   Developments within the extraterritorial jurisdiction and those with less
than twenty (20) dwellings will be encouraged to pursue payment in lieu of
dedication if they wish provide public ownership of any required recreational
facilities due to the town’s inability to maintain facilities outside the city
limits or in small installations.
6.17   SCREENING
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the general intent of this section to provide for screening of
utilities and mechanical units that may have adverse impacts on residential and
pedestrian areas. Non-residential developments require service areas to
accommodate utilities, waste handling, air handling, and supplementary power.
This section of the Ordinance provides guidance on reducing any adverse impacts
while still maintaining convenience and walkability. Buffers between different
zoning districts are addressed in Section
6.5, BUFFERS.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   Where non-residential development is adjacent to residentially zoned or used
property or adjacent to areas that encourage pedestrian activity or access, the
applicant shall address the potential adverse impacts of service areas to the
residential and pedestrian uses.
   The permit issuing authority shall consider the potential impacts including,
but not limited to, the following on adjacent residents and pedestrian areas:
      1.   Dumpsters and recycling collection areas
      2.   Air handling equipment
      3.   Supplementary power
      4.   Electric Utilities and Transformers
      5.   Phone, Cable and other utility services
      6.   Hot boxes & sprinkler connections
      7.   Grease traps
      8.   Service courts
      9.   Lighting
      10.   Satellite Dishes/ Solar Panels
   C.    REQUIREMENTS
   The screening requirement will be based on the type of impact to be
mitigated.
      1.   NOISE
      Solid waste areas, air handling equipment, supplementary power, parking
and service courts can have noise impacts at the time of use or the sound
generated by the machinery itself. Applicants shall provide noise level
documentation for equipment located adjacent to the residential or pedestrian
use. The permit issuing authority may require any one, or a combination of
fencing, distance, and baffling as needed to minimize noise generated by such
facilities. Areas that are serviced between 9 p.m. and 7 a.m. shall be located
at least 50 feet from a structure in residential use.
      2.   VISUAL
         (a)   Solid waste areas, utility meters, hot boxes and sprinkler
connections, and service courts shall be screened from residences, pedestrian
areas, and adjacent streets through landscaping, fences, walls, or grade
changes of sufficient height to mitigate the visual impact of the utility being
screened when viewed from the adjacent parcel, pedestrian area or street.
         (b)    Solid waste areas shall be screened by a fence or wall tall
enough to screen the solid waste from view. The solid waste storage area shall
be enclosed and secured by a gate.
         (c)    Air handling units, condensers, satellite dishes and other
equipment that is placed on the roof shall be screened from view by building
elements in order to shield from sight at grade as well as from nearby public
rights-of-way
      3.   LIGHT
      Parking areas, service courts, delivery areas or others that include
overhead and security lighting shall satisfy the lighting of this Ordinance.
Further, local streets and residential properties shall be protected from
headlight trespass through the installation of sufficiently tall landscaping or
screening.
6.18   SIDEWALKS AND WALKWAYS
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the general intent of this section to provide for public health,
safety, and welfare by promoting connectivity and multi-modal travel methods to
improve quality of life and air quality by requiring the installation of
sidewalks and walkways.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   This section describes the types of new development required to construct
public sidewalks or walkways as a component of their development. For this
section the term “new development” applies to a Special Use Permit, or a Master
Plan including subdivisions of land, and site plans for any parcel one (1) acre
or greater, or the construction of a new principle structure on a parcel, or
significant renovation of an existing structure or vehicle accommodation areas
that disturbs 50% or more of the parcel area.
   C.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      1.   DEVELOPMENT SITES
      If a parcel fronts on a street segment designated as a high priority or
Duplin County priority sidewalk segment in the sidewalk recommendation map of
the Community Connectivity Plan, any new development on that parcel shall
construct a public sidewalk along the designated frontage. The permit issuing
authority may modify this requirement upon presentation by the applicant for
development approval of competent evidence demonstrating that strict compliance
with this standard is not economically feasible or reasonably practicable due
to topography, stream buffer requirements, or other similar reasons. The permit
issuing authority may, as a condition of any waiver or modification of this
sidewalk requirement require a partial payment equal to no more than the cost
of the sidewalk segment for which the waiver or modification are granted. All
payments received shall be deposited into the Town’s sidewalk construction
capital fund.
      If a parcel fronts a street segment designated as a low priority sidewalk
segment in the sidewalk recommendation map of the Community Connectivity Plan,
any new development on that parcel shall either (1) construct the sidewalk
along the designated frontage or (2) at the applicant’s option, make a payment
to the Town in lieu of constructing a sidewalk, or (3) a combination of (1) and
(2). The permit issuing authority shall establish the amount of the payment,
which shall not exceed the estimated cost of the construction of the sidewalk
or section thereof. All payments received shall be deposited into the Town’s
sidewalk construction capital fund.
      2.   NEW PUBLIC STREETS
         (a)   Sidewalks will be provided along both sides of all proposed and
existing public streets within development.
         (b)   Sidewalks will be provided along any existing public road
directly accessed by the proposed development as follows:
            i.   The sidewalk will extend the length of the property adjacent
to the roadway on the same side as the proposed development.
            ii.   The developer will provide any necessary additional right-of-
way needed for the sidewalk to either the Town or NCDOT, as appropriate.
      3.   DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
         (a)   Sidewalks built adjacent to an NCDOT road facility shall be
built to meet NCDOT sidewalk standards.
         (b)    Sidewalks shall be at least five (5) feet wide and constructed
of concrete at least five (5) inches thick, or such other material as may be
approved by the permit issuing authority.
         (c)    Sidewalks shall connect via a direct link to the primary
building entry.
         (d)    For non-residential lots with existing sidewalks or for
sidewalks constructed as part of a new development, shade trees shall be
located in the parcel front yard so as to shade the walkway without damaging
it. The shade trees shall be installed 10’ behind the sidewalk and be spaced no
greater than 40’ on center. This requirement shall not be applied to non-
residential buildings built within 10’ of the ROW or with a front courtyard or
other side features that provide similar shading.
         (e)    For non-residential buildings built within 10’ of the right-of-
way shade trees shall be installed between the curb and sidewalk in accordance
with town planting and right-of-way standards.
         (f)    Sidewalks and walkways shall be constructed to meet ADA
requirements
         (g)    When a retaining wall of 30 inches or more in height or a steep
grade exceeding a 1:1 ratio is located within five feet of a sidewalk or other
constructed system designed and placed as to direct public pedestrian traffic,
a barrier shall be constructed and maintained between the sidewalk and the
grade change.
         (h)    When the horizontal slope of a sidewalk exceeds the minimum
grade allowed by ADA, it shall be treated as a ramp with railing requirements.
   D.   MAINTENANCE
   All sidewalks shall be adequately maintained and kept in a safe and neat
manner.
6.19   SIGNAGE
   A.   INTENT
   It is the general intent of this section to help protect and preserve the
historic and aesthetic character of Wallace while balancing with those
interests the need of businesses, government and the traveling public to safely
and accurately identify and read information on permitted signs. Toward that
end, the Town adopts these regulations regarding the number, area, location and
other characteristics of signs.
   B.   SIGNS SUBJECT TO CONTROL
   All signs visible from vehicular rights-of-way, both new and existing, shall
be erected, maintained, and operated in accordance with this Ordinance and
other relevant controls unless specifically exempted. The definition of “sign”
also includes those messages inside a building specifically oriented to persons
outside the building. The provisions of this section do not apply to window
displays of merchandise but do apply to signs mounted in windows.
   C.   ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT REQUIRED
   Before any sign shall be erected, replaced, converted, changed, structurally
altered, or otherwise modified, a Zoning Compliance Permit must be obtained
except those specifically exempted from such a requirement.
   In the case of a multi-tenant development, the Zoning Compliance Permit
shall be issued in the name of the owner of the multi-tenant development or his
agent rather than in the name of any individual tenant thereof, and it shall be
the sole responsibility of such owner or agent to allocate among the tenants
the permissible maximum sign surface area established by this Ordinance. Upon
application by the owner of a multi-tenant development, the Planning Director
may issue a master sign permit that allocates permissible maximum sign surface
area among the various buildings, businesses or tenancies in the development
according to a formula established and furnished by the owner, and thereafter
sign permits shall be issued to individual tenants only in accordance with the
allocation formula on record with the Planning Director. No sign permit shall
be issued for any sign which conflicts with the allocation formula on record,
and no new freestanding sign may be erected except in accordance with the then
existing sign regulations established by this Ordinance, and with the
allocation formula on record.
   D.   SIGNS ALLOWED BY DISTRICT
   Signs are allowed by district as set forth in Table 6.19(1), SIGNS ALLOWED
BY DISTRICT below.
Table    RESIDENTIAL                    NON-        SPECIAL
6.19.1:                                 RESIDENTIAL
SIGNS
ALLOWED  R-6 R-  R-8 R-10 R-15 RA- R-   CB HB I NB  BDO HDO MRSU MFSU RSU SDSU
BY           6MH               20  20MH
DISTRICT
Table 6.19.1:    RESIDENTIAL              NON-       SPECIAL
SIGNS ALLOWED BY                          RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT         R- R-  R- R- R- RA- R-   CB HB I NB BDO HDO MRSU MFSU RSU SDSU
                 6  6MH 8  10 15 20  20MH
Building Signs                                
 Wall Sign      I  I   I  I  I  I   I    P  P  P P  --  P   C    C    C   C
 Projecting     I  I   I  I  I  I   I    P  P  P P  --  P   C    C    C   C
  Sign
  Awning,
 Gallery,       I  I   I  I  I  I   I    P  P  P P  --  P   C    C    C   C
  Marquee Sign
 Window Sign    -- --  -- -- -- --  --   P  P  P P  --  P   C    C    C   C
Ground Signs                                  
 Low Profile    I  I   I  I  I  I   I    P  P  P P  --  --  C    C    C   C
 Medium Profile -- --  -- -- -- --  --   P  P  P P  --  --  C    C    C   C
 High Profile   -- --  -- -- -- --  --   -- P  P -- --  --  C    C    C   C
  Tract
 Identification P  P   P  P  P  P   P    -- P  P P  --  --  C    C    C   C
  Sign
  A-Frame
 (Sandwich      -- --  -- -- -- --  --   P  P  P P  --  P   C    C    C   C
  Board)
Advertising                                   
Signs
  Off-Premise                                   -
 Signs/         -- --  -- -- -- --  --   -- -- - -- P   --  --   --   --  --
  Billboards
P: Permitted I: Institutional Only (Section Z) C: Conditional Based on SUP --:
Not Permitted
E. WALL SIGNS             Permit Required: YES COA: YES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-284.jpg]
A. Description
An on-premises sign attached flat to or mounted away from but parallel to
the building wall, typically extended no more than 12 inches from the
building wall. A sign permit is required for a wall sign.
B. Sign Area Allocation
Permanent wall signs shall be permitted for each separate business
establishment provided the total allowable sign area for all signs shall not
exceed two (2) square foot for each lineal foot of building wall facing a
public street.
C. Height
1.  No portion of a wall sign may extend above the roof line of a building
    without a parapet wall.
    No portion of a wall sign may extend two feet above the roof line of a
2.  building with a parapet wall, provided no portion of the sign extends
    above the parapet.
3.  No wall sign may extend above the lower eave line of a building with a
    pitched roof.
4.  Wall signs shall in no case project higher than the eave of the building
    or thirty (30) feet, whichever is lower.
D. Frontage Standards
D1 Size per sign  200 sf   D3 Projection (max)   10”
   (max)
D2 Height (max)   6’     D4 Signs per business 4
E. Miscellaneous
    An increase in the size of a wall sign may be permitted based upon the
    front setback of the building - a ten percent (10%) increase in the size
    of the sign for 100 - 199 foot setback; twenty percent (20%) increase in
    the size of the sign for 200 - 299 foot setback; thirty percent (30%)
    increase in the size of the sign for 300 or more foot setback. The
    location and number of wall signs is at the option of the owner or
1.  tenant; however, no more than four (4) signs are to be located on any
    zoning lot.  The “front” façade shall be the one oriented toward the
    public right of way and the “rear” façade shall be the opposite façade.
    The sign area allowed on the “front” façade shall be calculated as
    detailed as detailed above. The sign area allowed on the “rear” and
    “side” façades shall be 75% of the area of the sign on the front façade.
    Street number numerals shall not count in this requirement.
    In the Historic Overlay District, the maximum wall sign surface area
    shall be 3% of the building façade area or 45 square feet. This limit
    shall apply to all wall mounted signs, including exterior, interior,
2.  awning, and hanging types. “Facade” shall include all planes facing the
    same direction regardless of structural offsets. “Building” shall be
    determined by property boundaries unless information is provided about
    interior firewalls dividing a structure into multiple components.
    When a building contains a sign band, such a building may only use a
3.  flush mounted wall sign and it must be located and centered within the
    sign band area. Hanging signs shall not be used on a façade with a sign
    band.
    The Historic District Commission may modify the provisions of the sign
4.  area for an individual building, if necessary, to keep with the historic
    design of the building.
 
F. AWNING, GALLERY, MARQUEE SIGNS               Permit Required: NO COA: YES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-286.jpg]
A. Description
An on-premise sign attached flat to (or extending vertically upward or
downward) from an awning, gallery or marquee. A sign permit is not required.
B. Location
B1 Clear height (min)                    8’
C. Size
C1 Area (max)                            20 sf   C3 Height of letters (max) 18”
C2 Height above or below awning, gallery 12”
   or marquee (max)
D. Miscellaneous
Signs shall not extend outside the overall length or width of an awning,
gallery or marquee, or extend above the height of the building wall that the
awning, gallery or marquee is attached.
G. PROJECTING / HANGING SIGNS   Permit Required: YES COA: YES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-302.jpg]
A. Description
An on-premises sign attached directly to a supporting building wall, and
intersecting the building wall at a right angle. A projecting sign typically
extends more than 12 inches from the building wall, and may be two or three-
dimensional. A sign permit is required for a projecting sign.
B. Size
A projecting sign may not exceed 40 square feet in area. A projecting sign
which is not internally illuminated and is suspended to allow the sign to swing
due to wind action is not allowed to exceed 16 square feet in area. The
calculation for allowable sign area shall be for a single side of a hanging
sign.
C. Height
   Signs per business               Projection from wall
C1 (max per street       1       C3 (max)                 5’
   frontage)
C2 Clear height (min)    9’    C4 Distance from curb    18”
                                    (min)
D. Frontage Standards
   Ground story: Sign               Upper story: Sign area per sign face
D1 area per sign face    40 sf   D1 (max)                                 72 sf
   (max)
D2 Ground story: Height  8’    D4 Upper story: Height (max)             12’
   (max)
E. Miscellaneous
    Projecting signs erected at the intersection of building corners when the
1.  building corner adjoins the intersection of two streets may intersect at a
    45 degree angle to the corner of the building, in which case only one
    projecting sign is allowed.
2.  No projecting sign is allowed to extend above the roof line or the parapet
    wall.
3.  Buildings with two or more stories may not have a projecting sign located
    higher than the second story or 24 feet, whichever is less.
    The Historic District Commission may modify the provisions of the sign area
4.  for an individual building within the Historic Overlay District, if
    necessary, to keep with the historic design of the building.
H. WINDOW SIGNS                         Permit Required: NO COA: YES
A.  Description
A window sign is an on-premise sign attached flat but parallel to the
inside of a window or is within twelve (12) inches of the inside of the
window. A sign permit is not required.B.SizeB1Area per business (max
combination of all windows covered by window signs)30%B2Window signs may
only cover 5% of window area between 4 and 7 feet above the adjacent
sidewalk
I. LOW PROFILE GROUND SIGNS             Permit Required: YES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/IMAGES/0-0-0-288.jpg]
A. Description
A freestanding sign no more than 3½ feet in height on a supporting
structure, post, mast, or pole and not attached, supported or suspended to
or from any building or structure. The calculation for allowable sign area
shall be for a single side of the freestanding sign. A sign permit is
required for a ground sign.
B. Size
B1 Area (max)                     70 sf   B3 Size of copy (min)  4”
B2 Height (max)                   5’    B4 Lines of copy (max) 5
C. Location
C1 Signs per site                 1       C3 Setback             10’
C2 Street frontage required (min) n/a
D. Miscellaneous
1.  All ground sign braces or uprights shall be self-supporting structures
    permanently attached to concrete foundations in or upon the ground.
J. MEDIUM PROFILE GROUND SIGNS           Permit Required: YES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/IMAGES/0-0-0-290.jpg]
A. Description
A freestanding sign no more than 70 square feet in area erected on a
supporting structure, mast, post, or pole not more than 15 feet in height;
or a freestanding sign no more than 100 feet in area erected on a
supporting structure, mast, post, or pole not more than 10 feet in height.
A ground sign is not attached, supported or suspended to or from any
building or structure. The calculation for allowable sign area shall be
for a single side of the freestanding sign. A sign permit issued is
required for a ground sign.
B. Size
B1 Option 1: Area (max)           70 sf   B3 Option 2: Area (max)   100 sf
B2 Option 1: Height (max)         15’   B4 Option 2: Height (max) 10’
B5 Size of copy (min)             4”    B6 Lines of copy (max)    6
C. Location
C1 Number of Signs per site (max) 1       C3 Setback                10’
C2 Street frontage required (min) 100’
D. Miscellaneous
1.  All ground sign braces or uprights shall be self-supporting structures
    permanently attached to concrete foundations in or upon the ground.
K. HIGH PROFILE GROUND SIGNS              Permit Required: YES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-292.jpg]
A. Description
A freestanding sign no more than 100 sq ft in area erected on a supporting
structure, mast, post, or pole not more than 25 feet in height not attached,
supported or suspended to or from any building or structure. The calculation
for allowable sign area shall be for a single side of the freestanding sign.
A sign permit is required for a ground sign.
B. Size
B1 Area (max)                     100 sf   B3 Size of copy (min)        4”
B2 Height (max)                   25’    B4 Lines of copy (max)       6
C. Location
C1 Number of Signs per site (max) 1        C3 Street frontage required  200’
                                              (min)
C2 Additional signs for double    SUP      C4 Setback                   10’
   frontage lots
D. Miscellaneous
1.  All ground sign braces or uprights shall be self-supporting structures
    permanently attached to concrete foundations in or upon the ground.
L. TRACT IDENTIFICATION SIGNS                  Permit Required: YES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-294.jpg]
A. Description
A freestanding ground sign identifying entry to a residential, commercial
or mixed development or a nonresidential establishment in a residential
district. A sign permit is required for a tract identification sign.
B. Size
B1 Copy Area (max)                      16 sf   B4 Sign area (max)   160 sf
B2 Copy Height (max)                    3.5’  B5 Sign height (max) 6’
C. Location
C1 Number of Signs per street frontage  1       C3 Setback           10’
   (max)
C2 Site with more than 400 ft street    1 add
   frontage
D. Miscellaneous
    Identifying signs may be placed on a subdivision wall or fence provided
1.  that no part of the wall or fence exceeds six feet in height, or, may
    be placed on a retaining wall greater than six feet in height provided
    that no part of the sign exceeds a height of five feet.
M. A-FRAME SIGNS (SANDWICH BOARD)      Permit Required: NO COA: YES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-296.jpg]
A. Description
A small, unlit, freestanding, on-site, portable ground sign that is
displayed during business hours and removed when the business is closed.  A-
Frame (sandwich board) signs may be displayed by businesses to advertise
information beyond identifying the name and location of the business. A sign
permit is not required.  Approval by the Historic District Commission is
required if the business is located within the Historic Overlay District
(HDO) through a Certificate of Appropriateness.
B. Size
B1 Sign area (max)               9 sf   B4 Sign height (max)              4’
C. Location
C1 Distance from main pedestrian 10’  C3 Number per establishment (max) 1
   entrance (max)
C2 Clear pedestrian space        5’
D. Miscellaneous
1.  Sidewalk signs must not interfere with pedestrian travel or encroach
    upon the required accessible path.
2.  Sidewalk signs may only be displayed during business hours and must be
    removed when the business is closed.
3.  Signs must be made of wood or metal.
 
   N.   COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA
   For the purpose of determining the number of signs permitted, a sign shall
be considered to be a single display device containing elements organized,
related, and composed to form a unit. Without limiting the generality of the
above, a multi-sided sign shall be regarded as one sign.
      1.   The surface area of a sign shall be computed by including the entire
area within a single, continuous, rectilinear perimeter of not more than eight
(8) straight lines, or a circle or an ellipse, enclosing the extreme limits of
the writing, representation, emblem or other display, together with any
material or color forming an integral part of the background of the display or
used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it
is placed, but not including any supporting framework or bracing that is
clearly incidental to the display itself.
      2.   If the sign consists of more than one (1) section or module, all of
the area, including that between sections or modules, shall be included in the
computation of the sign area.
      3.   Freestanding signs are typically two-sided therefore the surface
area shall be computed by calculating each of the two sides independently to
determine the maximum square footage allowed.
      4.   Generally, parcels and businesses are permitted to have both
freestanding and wall mounted signs to the extent to which signs can be erected
and maintained to be in full compliance with this ordinance. The area of these
signs is calculated independently.
   O.   PERMANENT SIGNS NOT SUBJECT TO PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
   The following permanent signs are allowed and are not subject to the permit
requirements of this Ordinance, but are subject to all other applicable
provisions of this Ordinance, including Historic District requirements for
Certificates of Appropriateness as described in Section
3.11, CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS of this Ordinance when located in the
Historic District.
      1.   Non-illuminated signs not exceeding two (2) per lot and six (6)
square feet each in area, bearing only property identification numbers and
names, post office box numbers, and names of occupants of the premises.
      2.   Signs two (2) square feet in area posted on private property
relating to private parking, warning the public against trespass or danger from
animals.
      3.   Flags or insignia of any governmental or non-profit organization
when not displayed in connection with commercial activity or promotion. One (1)
flag (each) of the United States and of the State of North Carolina no larger
than 100 square feet may be displayed in connection with a commercial activity
without being subject to the permit requirements of this section.
      4.   Legal notices, identification and informational signs installed by
governmental agencies authorized by the Town of Wallace.
      5.   Local traffic directional signs erected in the travel right of way
by or on behalf of a governmental entity provided such signs are consistent
with the Manual of Uniform Transportation Control Devices or Town’s official
wayfinding plan.
      6.   Memorial signs or tablets, and names and construction dates of
buildings when cut into any masonry surface or when placed as a cast iron (or
similar) plaque affixed to the building structure.
      7.   Signs not exceeding four (4) square feet and bearing no advertising
matter directing and guiding traffic on multi-family or non-residential
property.
      8.   In addition to the signs allowed in Section
6.19(L), TRACT IDENTIFICATION SIGNS, above, the owner, property manager, home
owners association or residents association of a residential or multi-family
development may install a community event bulletin board at each entrance to
the development. A community event bulletin board shall not be located in the
public right of way, nor shall it be located in such a way as to interfere with
lines of sight for vehicular traffic on, entering or exiting the public right
of way. Each sign shall meet the following criteria: one unlighted, single-
sided sign per entrance, 3’ X 4’ maximum dimensions, and 6’ maximum
installation height. The sign face (i.e., the single side of the sign on which
information may be posted) shall be oriented toward traffic exiting the
development, so that the sign face is not visible from the public right of way
outside the subdivision or multi-family development it serves. Postings on the
bulletin board shall be maintained in a neat and orderly condition and
monitored by the home owner’s association or property manager.
   P.   TEMPORARY SIGNS NOT SUBJECT TO PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
   No temporary sign may be affixed, attached, or painted upon any utility
pole, or upon any tree, rock, or other natural object. All temporary signs
referring to commercial operations must include the name of the business entity
sponsoring the sign and must be professionally printed. The following temporary
signs are not subject to the permit requirements of this Ordinance but are
otherwise subject to the requirements of this Ordinance except as specifically
indicated herein:
      1.   Temporary real estate signs on lots of less than one (1) acre, a
single sign on each street front. The sign shall not exceed four (4) square
feet in area and may contain the message that the property is for sale, lease,
or rent and the name, address, and phone number of the property owner or agent.
For lots of one (1) acre or more acres in area, a sign not exceeding thirty-two
(32) square feet in area may be displayed. Such signs must be located on the
property but are not subject to the setback requirements.
      2.   Temporary real estate signs advertising an existing single family
dwelling for sale or rent may use up to two (2) off site “pointer” signs not to
exceed four (4) square feet in area and only displaying “for sale,” “for rent,”
and either “by owner,” or the logo of the agent. This type of sign is exempted
from the provision requiring the business entity name.
      3.   Construction site identification signs identifying the project, the
architect, engineer, contractor, funding sources and/or other individuals or
firms involved with the construction, the intended use or name of the building,
and the expected completion date. Not more than one (1) sign may be erected per
site. The sign may not exceed four (4) square feet in area for single family or
duplex construction, or thirty-two (32) square feet for multi-family or non-
residential construction. The sign may not be erected prior to issuance of a
Building Permit, and shall be removed within seven (7) days after of issuance
of a Certificate of Occupancy for construction projects for which a Certificate
of Occupancy will be issued or otherwise within seven (7) days of completion of
the work. This section also applies to signs identifying renovation and/or
maintenance work on an existing, developed site.
      4.   Yard or garage sale signs announcing yard or garage sales, provided
they do not exceed two (2) signs and four (4) square feet in area per display
surface, and are displayed not more than two (2) days prior to the event and
are removed within twenty-four (24) hours of the event.
      5.   Temporary signs or banners announcing grand openings of new
businesses only, which may be displayed for no more than thirty (30)
consecutive days. There shall be no more than two (2) signs or banners for each
business, such signs or banners shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in
area, and shall be affixed to the structure the business is located within or
at the driveway access for the building.
      6.   Temporary political signs advertising candidates or issues, provided
such signs do not exceed nine (9) square feet in area per display surface, are
mounted on stakes, do not exceed three (3) feet in total height, are not
erected more than forty-five (45) days before the date designated as election
day, and are removed within seven (7) days after the election (in cases of run-
off election, the political signs of the run-off candidates may remain until
seven (7) days after the run-off election). Political signs may be located
within the public right-of-way and setbacks provided that they do not intrude
on the sight preservation triangle.
      7.   Banners or flags that are decorative or seasonal in nature or that
are displayed in connection with the observance of holidays not to exceed three
(3) per lot located in any zoning district. Banners or flags advertising
special sale events of for-profit organizations are not covered by this
section.
      8.   Advertising Flags are permitted within the Highway Business (HB)
district or the Central Business (CB) district. No site shall contain more than
three (3) Advertising Flags. Each Advertising Flag erected to a tether, pole,
mast, building, or any structure shall be deemed to be a separate distinct
sign. The maximum height of an Advertising Flag shall not exceed fifteen (15)
feet. Advertising Flags are not permitting in the Historic Overlay District
(HDO). Advertising Flags must be kept and remain in a good state of repair and
shall be removed within seventy-two (72) hours upon damage or disrepair.
      9.   Directional or “pointer” signs for events. Any event may have up to
off-site two (2) signs, not exceeding two (2) square feet each. Events do not
have to meet the definition of “public event” in this ordinance to use this
sign. The signs may be displayed for no more than one (1) twenty-four (24) hour
period only that coincides with the event. Town of Wallace sponsored events are
exempt from these regulations.
   Q.   TEMPORARY SIGNS SUBJECT TO PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
   The following temporary signs are subject to the permit requirements of this
Ordinance and are subject to Historic District requirements for Certificates of
Appropriateness as described in Section
3.11, CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS when located in the Historic District.
      1.   Announcements of public events as defined by this ordinance taking
place within the Town or its extraterritorial jurisdiction may be permitted
subject to the following standards. If an event that otherwise meets the
definition occurs monthly or more frequently, the event does not qualify for
the signage allowed in this section. Town of Wallace sponsored events are
exempt from these regulations.
         (a)   The event is sponsored by a non-profit, unit of state or local
government, or formal association of merchants. For the purposes of this
section, the entity that wishes to qualify may be requested to provide
documentation of their status as an association, or organization by the
Planning Director.
         (b)   Signs may be erected no more than fourteen (14) days prior to
the event and shall be removed no later than forty-eight (48) hours after the
event has concluded. For any event lasting more than two (2) days, signs may
not be displayed for more than seventeen (17) days.
         (c)   No event shall display more than one hundred (100) square feet
of off-site signage.
         (d)   No event shall display more than twelve (12) signs, as detailed
below. The Planning Director will issue a Zoning Compliance Permit detailing
the approved sign number, size, and locations.
            i.   Two (2) signs may be located on the lot hosting the event for
the same display period. These signs may be banners if they are securely
fastened and adequately vented to not pose a threat to traffic. A combination
of these signs shall be no larger than sixty-four (64) square feet.
            ii.   One (1) sign may be a banner posted as per Section 3.18(Q)(2)
detailed below. No event is required to have a banner. If an event decides to
not use a banner, the total number of signs permitted is reduced to eleven
(11).
            iii.   Nine (9) off-site signs, displayed in different locations,
may be located in the public right of way, but not in a driveway or
intersection sight triangle. These signs must be of rigid construction (not
banners) and a single side may not exceed eight (8) square feet. The sign
locations must be included in the permit application materials.
      2.   Banners advertising public events, as defined by this ordinance, may
only be installed at the Town of Wallace sponsored and approved locations. The
Planning Director shall issue a Zoning Compliance Permit for each banner on a
first come, first served basis. The Planning Director will resolve any
overlapping requests for banner displays. Banners that are part of a public
event sign package authorized in Section
6.19(Q)(1) shall be displayed for a time period matching the other event
signage. Otherwise the display period shall not exceed 14 days. Banners shall
conform to written standards and safety guidelines as established by the
Planning Director.
   R.   PROHIBITED SIGNS & PROHIBITED CHARACTERISTICS
      1.   Temporary signs, both new and existing, other than those expressly
allowed in this Ordinance, are prohibited.
      2.   Devices consisting of flags other than those exempted by Section
6.19(P)(7) or Section
6.19(P)(8), banners, streamers, pennants, windblown propellers, balloons,
strung light bulbs, flashing lights, rotating lights, strobe lights,
fluorescent lights, rotating or other moving or apparently moving
installations, are prohibited.
      3.   Freestanding signs shall be securely fastened to the ground or to
some other substantial supportive structure to minimize the danger that either
the sign or the supportive structure may be moved by the wind or other forces
of nature and cause injury to persons or property.
      4.   Any sign(s) placed on any curb, sidewalk, post pole, utility pole,
hydrant, bridge, tree, or other surface located on, over, or across any public
street, right-of-way, property or thoroughfare, unless authorized by the Town
Council or by another section of this ordinance, are prohibited.
      5.   Any sign which pertains to a business, profession, commodity, or
service which is vacant, unoccupied, or discontinued for a portion of 120 days
or more; any part of a sign which is unused for a period of 120 days or more;
or any sign which pertains to an event or purpose which no longer applies shall
be deemed abandoned. An abandoned sign is prohibited and shall be removed by
the owner of the sign or the owner or tenant of the property.
      6.   Mobile-style marquee signs are prohibited in all districts.
      7.   All non-exempt signs shall comply with the construction requirements
of the North Carolina State Building Code. Trailer mounted signs do not meet
these requirements.
      8.   Any sign unlawfully erected or maintained.
   S.   TRAFFIC SAFETY PRECAUTIONS
   Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Ordinance, the following
practices in relation to signs are prohibited in order to preserve the safety
of pedestrian and vehicular movement:
      1.   No part of any permanent sign may intrude into the sight
preservation triangle.
      2.   Any sign which the Planning Director determines obstructs the view
of any pedestrian, bicyclist, or motorists using any street, private driveway,
approach to any street intersection, or which interferes with the effectiveness
of or obscures any traffic sign, device, or signal.
      3.   No privately owned sign shall use words such as "stop", "slow",
“caution", "danger", or similar admonitions in a format or manner which could
be confused with traffic directional signs erected by government agencies.
      4.   No sign shall be erected which, by its location, color, nature, or
message, might be confused with or obstruct the view of traffic signals or
signs or might be confused with the warning lights of an emergency or public
safety vehicle.
   T.   RESTRICTIONS ON ILLUMINATION
   Unless otherwise prohibited by this chapter, signs may be illuminated only
in accordance with this section. All illuminated signs allowed by this
Ordinance must also comply with duly adopted regulations regarding light
emissions as described in Section
6.11, LIGHTING. Notwithstanding the foregoing, internally illuminated signs are
prohibited in the Historic District.
      1.   Directional lighting fixtures used for sign lighting shall be top
mounted so lighting is aimed down. Ground mounted signs with a height of eight
(8) feet or less may be ground lit, provided that the lights are shielded so as
to illuminate the sign only, and the light shall not exceed ten (10) foot
candles at the sign surface.
      2.   No illuminated signs are allowed in any residential zoning district,
except signs at the entrance to a residential subdivision, neighborhood or
multi-family development allowed by Section
6.19(L), TRACT IDENTIFICATION SIGNS above may be illuminated.
      3.   Freestanding signs and window signs may not be illuminated when the
business is closed. Those signs advertising multiple businesses may not be
illuminated when all the businesses advertised are closed.
      4.   Lighting directed toward a sign shall be shielded so that it
illuminates on the face of the sign and does not shine directly into a public
right-of-way or residential premises.
      5.   Subject to Section
6.19(T)(7) illuminated tubing or strings of lights that outline property lines,
sales areas, roof lines, doors, windows, or similar areas are prohibited.
      6.   Subject to Section
6.19(T)(7) no sign may contain or be illuminated by flashing or intermittent
lights or lights of changing degrees of intensity, except signs indicating the
time, date, or weather conditions.
      7.   Sections
6.19(T)(5) and
6.19(T)(6) do not apply to temporary signs erected in connection with
observance of holidays.
      8.   Within the Historic District, neon signs shall not be permitted. For
purposes of this subsection, the term “neon sign” includes all signs in which
illuminated tubing constitutes or forms all or part of the message of the sign,
as well as signs in which the message area of the sign is outlined, underlined,
or otherwise highlighted by illuminated tubing.
   U.   ELECTRONIC SIGNS & ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARDS
      1.   Electronic Time, Date, Temperature Sign
      An electronic time, date and temperature sign may be applied to a
freestanding or attached sign of any permitted nonresidential use. An
electronic time, date, and temperature sign shall not be included in the
calculation of sign area permitted.
      2.   Electronic Message Board Sign
      Electronic Message Board Signs shall be allowed in all nonresidential
zoning districts. A development may have either attached or freestanding
Electronic Message Board signage, but not both, unless otherwise provided for
in this ordinance. The following conditions shall apply to Electronic Message
Board Signs:
         (a)   Calculation of Area. An Electronic Message Board Sign which is
included within a larger sign shall be included in the calculation of the total
permitted sign area.
         (b)   Changes Per Day.
            i.   Signs shall have a maximum change rate of every five (5)
seconds;
            ii.   Signs may use various form of transitions between messages,
however, signs may not scroll or flash.
         (c)   All Electronic Message Board Signs in place prior to the
adoption of this ordinance must comply with Subsection (b), Changes per Day.
         (d)   Attached Signs. Attached Electronic Message Board Signs shall
have a maximum area of thirty-six (36) square feet, unless otherwise provided
for in this ordinance.
         (e)   Area Bonus. Signs six (6) feet in height and lower containing
electronic messages shall be allowed a ten (10) percent increase in maximum
sign area.
   V.   BILLBOARDS/OFF-PREMISE SIGNS
   No Billboards or off-premise signs are allowed except as provided under the
standards set forth in Section
4.6(B), BILLBOARD OVERLAY DISTRICT (BDO) and standards set forth in Section
5.2(C), BILLBOARDS.
   W.   NONCONFORMING SIGNS
      1.   Nonconforming signs, because of their location, design, height and
other features, detract from the quality of life and sense of place Wallace
seeks to achieve and maintain. Therefore, it is the intent of this Ordinance
that all nonconforming signs will eventually be brought into conformity with
its provisions, and that nonconforming signs will ultimately be phased out of
existence.
      2.   No person may engage in any activity that causes an increase in the
extent of nonconformity of a nonconforming sign. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, no nonconforming sign may be enlarged or altered,
nor may any illumination be added to any nonconforming sign.
      3.   A nonconforming sign structure may not be moved, replaced, or
otherwise changed except to bring the sign into complete conformity with this
Ordinance. The message contained on the sign may be changed provided that no
change is made to the sign structure, and the sign area and dimensions are not
changed.
      4.   If a nonconforming sign is damaged to an extent equal to or greater
than 50% of the sign replacement cost (new) or destroyed, it may not thereafter
be repaired, reconstructed, or replaced except in conformity with all the
provisions of this Ordinance, and the remnants of the former sign structure
shall be cleared from the land.
      5.   If the owner or occupant of premises with of a nonconforming sign
discontinues operations for a period of 90 consecutive days, then the owner
shall remove the nonconforming sign and the sign structure shall be cleared
from the land.
   X.    REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMING SIGNS
      1.   Any non-exempt temporary sign on private property must be removed
within thirty (30) days of the receipt by the property owner of the written
notice from the Planning Director detailing the nonconformity.
      2.   Any temporary sign, either exempt or nonconforming, located within
the public right-of-way may be removed by town staff if such sign is determined
to be in violation of this Ordinance. Persons or businesses who repeat
violations of this provision twice within any thirty (30) day period may be
subject to escalating fines as described in Section 8, Enforcement.
   Y.    SIGNAGE FOR MULTI-TENANT DEVELOPMENTS
      1.   Upon application for a multi-tenant development, the owner shall
submit a sign allocation plan that indicates how square footage will be shared
among tenants. Different tenants may be advertised on a single sign attached to
the same main sign structure. No tenant listing can be in print smaller than 6
inches tall. The total allocation of sign area shall be divided (but not
necessarily equally) between tenants and shall not exceed 150 square feet of
total sign area and shall not exceed a height of thirty (30) feet. All other
regulations for a high profile sign (Section
6.19(K): HIGH PROFILE SIGNS) are to be followed.
      2.   Outparcels within a multi-tenant development (lots owned by entities
other than the multi-tenant development) may install freestanding signs along
the public road or private access drive to which they have driveway access. For
the purposes of determining sign specifications, a private access drive shall
be treated as a public road for determining setback, height, and size of sign.
A freestanding sign may only be installed oriented toward a street or access
drive that the outparcel has driveway access to.
   Z.   INTERNAL WAYFINDING
   Multi-tenant developments with 2 or more access points or 3 or more
buildings shall develop and install an internal wayfinding sign program with
components for both drivers and pedestrians. Such signage may also be developed
and installed for non-residential developments with 2 or more access point or 3
or more buildings. A unified sign plan must be submitted and approved before
the signs are installed, showing that the signs comply with location, lighting,
construction, and height limitations of this section. Individual wayfinding
signs do not count toward development or tenant signage and will be permitted
on a single Zoning Compliance Permit. Internal wayfinding signage must be at
least 50 feet from the right of way of the street providing site access and
must be oriented toward on-site traffic flow.
   AA.   INSTITUTIONAL SIGNS
   Signs erected by schools, churches, hospitals, governmental buildings, and
other institutions are permitted in all districts, but the size, type and other
regulations are limited according to Table
6.19.1, SIGNS ALLOWED BY DISTRICT above. A sign permit is required for all
types of intuitional signs.
6.20   STORMWATER ORDINANCE
   A.   GENERAL POLICY:
   It shall be the policy of the Town of Wallace to require that all new
developed land, which results in greater than 30 percent impervious area or
greater than 15,000 square feet of impervious area, and redeveloped land which
results in additional impervious area resulting in greater than 30 percent
within its jurisdiction have sufficient stormwater management controls in place
so as to ensure the adequate protection of life and property. To this end, as a
minimum, new developed land, with greater than 30 percent or 15,000 square feet
of impervious area and redeveloped land which results in additional impervious
area resulting in greater than 30 percent within the jurisdiction of the Town
shall provide stormwater controls capable of managing after-development runoff
from a ten-year storm, so that the on-site effects of development are the same
or better than the predevelopment state. The requirements of this ordinance
shall be construed consistently with the requirements of the State of North
Carolina for controlling stormwater quantity and quality. Where the
requirements of this chapter are in conflict with the rules and regulations of
the State of North Carolina, the more stringent or higher requirements shall
govern.
   B.   PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this section is to protect and promote the public health,
safety and general welfare, and to safeguard the natural and manmade resources
of the town by regulating stormwater runoff. This purpose is accomplished by
imposing conditions and requirements upon existing and proposed development
activities, and by establishing procedures by which these requirements and
conditions are to be administered and enforced.
   C.   OBJECTIVES:
   The objectives of this article are to:
      1.   Establish the town’s stormwater management program;
      2.   Identify areas prone to flooding;
      3.   Prevent the creation of new flood prone areas;
      4.   Reduce the discharge of pollutants to the maximum extend practicable
by controlling stormwater discharge rates and encouraging the use of best
management practices, structural and/or nonstructural stormwater quantity and
quality control measures and other provisions;
      5.   Reduce erosion associated with stormwater runoff;
      6.   Provide the inspection and proper maintenance of structural and
nonstructural stormwater facilities;
      7.   Prohibit non-stormwater discharges and require the removal of
illicit discharges;
      8.   Prevent improper disposal of materials that degrade water quality;
      9.   Permit sampling and monitoring for pollutants such as those
associated with illicit discharges, improper disposal, industrial and
construction activities, and the application of pesticides and fertilizers.
      10.   Provide for the enforcement of the town’s stormwater management
program.
   D.   POLICIES
      1.   TOWN’S ROLE
      The town has a role in the management of stormwater through
authorization, planning, construction, operation and maintenance of facilities
to reduce the adverse effects of stormwater runoff and to satisfy state and
federal statutes and regulations.
      2.   PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBILITY
         (a)   It shall be the responsibility of individual property owners of
developed or undeveloped land within the town jurisdictional limits, to
maintain stormwater conveyance facilities, such as waterways, streams, creeks,
ditches, swales, channels, canals, conduits and culverts, and stormwater
control facilities, such as ponds and lakes within their property. Where
conditions of existing stormwater facilities are determined to be deficient,
either intentional or due to a natural occurrence, and creates a public
nuisance, and the property owner fails to correct the deficiencies after being
notified by the town, the town may arrange for the deficiencies to be corrected
and recover all costs thereto from the property owner. However, the recovery of
costs from property owners is subject to appeal as described in Section
3.10, APPEAL.
         (b)   In the event a property owner wishes to install pipe in an open
ditch or drainage swale it is the responsibility of the property owner to
obtain written approval from the town. The property owner shall provide a
sketch or drawing showing the location, length, and size of the proposed pipe
installation. The minimum pipe size shall be fifteen (15) inches unless
approved by town. The town reserves the right to require the property owner to
obtain a professional engineer to properly size the proposed pipe.
         (c)   The property owner shall record, with the Duplin County Register
of Deeds, an easement over all storm water transportation and retention/
detention facilities, sufficient to provide maintenance of the facilities. A
copy of the recorded easement shall be provided to the town.
      3.   NEW DEVELOPMENT
      It is the policy of the town that all developable land within the town
jurisdictional limits, to be developed, which results in more than 30 percent
or greater than 15,000 square feet of impervious area shall have sufficient
stormwater management controls to provide adequate protection of life, property
and natural resources. To this end, as a minimum, all land disturbing activity
subject to this article, shall provide sufficient management of post-
development runoff from the ten-year (10) frequency storm such that the
discharge rates of post-development stormwater runoff do not exceed the pre-
development rates from the ten-year(10) frequency storm. Residential lots of
record as of the effective date of this ordinance are exempt from the
requirements of this ordinance.
      4.   REDEVELOPMENT
      It is the policy of the town that all nonresidential lots of record, as
of the effective date of this ordinance, within the town jurisdictional limits
to be redeveloped are not required to provide stormwater management controls
for the site, if the impervious area is not increased. If the impervious area
is increased and results in greater than 30 percent impervious area, stormwater
management controls shall be provided in order to better provide protection of
life, property and natural resources. To this end, as a minimum any
redevelopment activity which requires stormwater management controls, subject
to this article, shall provide sufficient management of post-redevelopment
runoff from the ten-year (10) frequency storm such that the discharge rate of
post-redevelopment stormwater runoff does not exceed the predevelopment rates
from the ten-year (10) frequency storm. Redevelopment of residential lots of
record, as of the effective date of this ordinance, are exempt from the
requirements of this ordinance.
      5.   LIMITATIONS OF ARTICLE
      This article does not imply that properties within the jurisdictional
area shall always be free from flooding or flood damage, surface water
stagnation or non-point source pollution or that all flood control and water
treatment projects to control the quantity and quality of runoff can be cost-
effectively constructed. Nothing in this article shall create additional duties
on the part of the town or hold the town liable for any damages incurred in a
flood or from adverse water quality due to stormwater runoff. Nothing in this
article shall waive the town’s immunity or defenses under state law or reduce
the need or necessity for flood insurance.
      6.   CONSISTENCY WITH TOWN, STATE, FEDERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
      The requirements of this article shall be enacted, administered and
enforced consistently with the requirements of the town, the state and the
federal government for controlling stormwater quality and quantity. If the
requirements of this article are found to conflict with other rules and
regulations of the town, the state or the federal government, the more
stringent or higher requirements shall govern.
   E.    DEVELOPMENT
      1.   CONFORMANCE WITH ARTICLE
      Stormwater runoff measures for new development shall be designed,
constructed and maintained by the owner of the property in accordance with the
provisions of this article.
      2.   APPLICABILITY
         (a)   Any new development activity that will result in more than
thirty (30) percent or greater than 15,000 square feet of impervious surface
area on any site, including subdivisions, other than a single-family residence
in any development not regulated by the town subdivision ordinance, is required
to obtain a written permit-to-construct from the town. Residential lots of
record as of the effective date of this ordinance are exempt from the
requirements of this ordinance.
         (b)   Any redevelopment activity that will not result in additional
impervious surface area is not required to obtain a written permit-to-construct
from the town. If the redevelopment activity results in additional impervious
area and the total impervious area is greater than 30 percent, a written
permit-to construct is required from the town. The relocation of impervious
surfaces will be allowed within the project. Residential lots of record as of
the effective date of this ordinance are exempt from the requirements of this
ordinance.
         (c)   No land disturbing activity may begin on a site meeting the
requirements of subsections (a) and (b) of this section until the provisions of
this article have been satisfied and the town has issued an authorization-to-
construct for the land disturbing activity.
         (d)   Whenever a site is redeveloped as set forth in subsection (b) of
this section, stormwater management shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions the redevelopment sections of this article for the entire site. When
a building site is redeveloped, or completely replaced, then the new impervious
area and remaining existing impervious area shall be the total impervious area
after redevelopment.
         (e)   All projects subject to the provisions of this article shall
require the issuance of a permit-to-construct by the town following approval of
construction plans for subdivisions and before receiving building permits for
non-subdivision projects.
         (f)   The construction of single-family residences on single-family
lots of record on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article
is derived shall be exempt from this article.
      3.   DUTY AND RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER
      It shall be the duty and responsibility of all property owners, in order
to abate and prevent nuisances resulting from improper drainage, to provide at
their own expense a proper and adequate drainage system of their respective
premises in accordance with the provisions of this article.
      4.   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT-TO-CONSTRUCT
      A person desiring to develop or redevelop land subject to the provisions
of this article shall request a permit-to-construct by submitting a completed
application form, application fee, supporting documents and certifications to
the town. Upon finding that the request is consistent with the provisions of
the ordinance from which this article is derived, the town will issue a permit-
to-construct.
         (a)   Application form. The application form for a permit-to construct
may be obtained from the town.
         (b)   Application fees. Application fees shall be based on a fee
schedule approved by the town council.
         (c)   Supporting documents. Supporting documents shall be submitted
with this application. The supporting documents shall consist of the following:
            i.   Narrative statement which describes the proposed development;
            ii.   Copy of deed(s);
            iii.   Two sets of plans which show the existing site conditions
and the proposed site improvements;
            iv.   Calculations
            v.   Operation and maintenance plan.
         (d)   Design professional’s certification. The design professional
preparing the plans, specifications and other supporting documents subject to
the provisions of this article shall be responsible for preparing the plans,
specifications and other supporting documents in accordance with the
requirements of this article and sound engineering design. The design
professional shall certify on the plans and the application that the proposed
improvements shown on the plans have been designed in accordance with the
ordinance from which this article is derived.
         (e)   Owner certification. The owners of the property to be developed
or redeveloped shall certify on the plan and the application the following:
            i.   Ownership of the property;
            ii.   Acceptance of responsibility to comply with the requirements
of the town stormwater management ordinance;
            iii.   Project will be constructed in accordance with the plan and
the requirements of the applicable ordinances and rules of the town, the state
and the federal government; and
            iv.   Proposed stormwater management facilities will be
constructed, operated, and maintained in accordance with the plan and the
requirements of the applicable ordinances and rules of the town, the state and
the federal government; and
            v.   Ownership and responsibility to operate and maintain proposed
stormwater management facilities shall not be transferred from the owner
without a written notification to the town within 30 days after the date of the
transaction. The owner shall record a notice of issuance of the permit-to-
construct in a format acceptable to the town.
      5.   TOWN REVIEW
      The application and supporting documents shall be reviewed by the town.
Upon satisfactory review of the application form and supporting documents
whereby the town finds that the application and supporting documents are
consistent with the requirements of the ordinance from which this article is
derived, the town will issue a permit-to-construct. If no action is taken by
the town within ninety (90) calendar days, after the submission of a complete
application, the project will be deemed to have been approved and the town will
immediately issue a permit-to-construct.
      6.   LIMITATION OF TOWN REVIEW
      The review of the application and supporting documents by the town shall
determine if the request submittal is complete and in accordance with the
requirements of the ordinance from which this article is derived. Nothing in
the review shall create additional duties on the part of the town that are the
responsibilities of the owner and the design professional.
      7.   CONSTRUCTION PERMIT CONDITIONS
      A permit-to-construct shall include the following conditions:
         (a)   All other required local, state and federal permits will be
obtained before starting work.
         (b)   All construction will be in accordance with the permit-
toconstruct.
         (c)   Modifications may be requested, but may not be constructed
without the issuance of a revised permit-to-construct.
         (d)   The owner shall arrange for adequate construction observation by
a design professional who shall, upon project completion, certify to the
completion of the work in accordance with the permit-to-construct.
         (e)   The town may visit the project and observe the progress of the
work. However, nothing in the visit and observation of the project shall create
additional duties on the part of the town that are the responsibilities of the
owner and the design professional.
      8.   CONSTRUCTION COMPLETION CERTIFICATIONS
      Upon completion of the construction required by the permit-to-construct,
the owner shall deliver to the town the design professional’s certification.
The design professional shall adequately observe the progress of the
construction work required by the permit-to-construct. Upon the satisfactory
completion of the work the design professional shall prepare a certification to
the owner that the work required by the permit-to-construct has been completed.
      9.   FINAL PLAT AND/OR CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
      The town shall not allow final plats to be recorded and certificates of
occupancies to be issued for any projects until the town has accepted the
construction completion certification, or until a surety in the form and amount
acceptable to the town and provided in accordance with G.S. 160D-804.1 has been
posted by the owner. A surety will not be accepted by the town until the town
receives a certification by the design professional which indicates sufficient
improvements have been completed which will adequately protect the proposed
improvements. Certificates of occupancies cannot be issued until temporary and/
or permanent drainage facilities have been installed and have been certified as
being sufficient to protect the proposed improvements by the design
professional. The surety is not to exceed 125 percent of the cost of the
temporary and/or permanent facilities covered within this article and approved
within the permit-to-construct.
      10.   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
      The owner shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
stormwater facilities. If repairs are needed to the stormwater facilities, the
owners of record, as ascertained from the county tax record or other public
documents that the town staff may choose to examine, shall be responsible for
making the repairs.
      11.   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP AUTHORIZATION FOR STORMWATER FACILITIES
FALLING WITHIN COMMON AREAS OF A DEVELOPMENT
      Ownership of stormwater facilities falling within the common areas of a
development shall not be transferred without the written authorization of the
town. The application form to transfer ownership may be obtained from the town
attorney. The application fee for requesting authorization to change ownership
shall be based on a fee schedule approved by the town board. The supporting
documents shall include the following:
         (a)   Existing deeds and easements;
         (b)   Proposed deeds and easements;
         (c)   Existing permit-to-construct, application and supporting
documents;
         (d)   Any previous completion certifications;
         (e)   A certification from a design professional that the project has
been inspected within the last 30 days and was found to be in compliance with
the requirements of the permit-to-construct;
         (f)   A certificate by the proposed owners that ownership of the
stormwater facilities will be accepted by the proposed owner, if ownership
transfer is authorized by the town. The proposed owner certification shall also
state that the proposed owners will continue to operate and maintain the
facilities in accordance with the conditions, obligations and duties of the
permit-to-construct and the ordinance from which this article is derived.
      12.   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OF STORMWATER FACILITIES NOT FALLING WITHIN
COMMON AREAS OF A DEVELOPMENT
      Ownership of stormwater facilities, including but not limited to: grassed
swales, ditches and water-carrying devices, that fall within the deeded areas
of an individual parcel or home site shall be transferred with the passing of a
general warranty deed without the written authorization of the town. The deed
restrictions are to state that the owner will continue to operate and maintain
the facilities in accordance with the conditions, obligations and duties of the
permit-to-construct and the ordinance from which this article is derived.
Acceptance of the general warranty deed shall be a certification that the
proposed owners will continue to operate and maintain the facilities in
accordance with the conditions, obligations and duties of the permit-to-
construct and the ordinance from which this article is derived.
      13.   CREATION OF NON-COMPLIANCE PARCELS
      If the subdivision of a parcel of land creates a sub parcel which would
be out of compliance, with the requirements of this Ordinance, the owner shall
construct the required stormwater facilities for the sub parcel, as required by
this Ordinance.
   F.   ASSESSMENTS FOR REGIONAL PROJECTS
      1.   OWNERS MAY REQUEST ASSESSMENTS BE A LIEN
      Property owners of single-family homes, townhouses and condominium
properties can request that the town council approve a resolution that allows
stormwater improvement costs to be assessed against the property as a lien.
      2.   TOWN COUNCIL TO DETERMINE IMPROVEMENTS
      The town council shall determine which stormwater improvements shall be
provided and the type of solution, either piping or non-piping, for the
improvement. The council shall determine the amount of construction cost to be
borne by the petitioners and the amount, if any, to be borne by the town.
      3.   RATE FOR ASSESSMENT FORMULA
      Unless partially or completely funded by the town, the assessment formula
for stormwater improvements shall be set at a rate that recovers 100 percent of
the construction cost, including engineering, labor and materials.
      4.   INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS
      The assessments shall be payable in equal installments. Such installments
shall bear interest at a rate to be fixed in the assessment resolution not to
exceed the annual rate allowed by law. Such interest shall begin from the date
of confirmation of the assessment roll. Any such assessment may be paid in full
in cash without the addition of interest within 30 days from the date of
publication of the notice of the confirmation of the assessment roll. The first
of the installments with interest thereon shall become due and payable 30 days
after the publication of the notice herein above required to be published, and
one subsequent installment with interest thereon shall be due and payable on
the same day of the month until the assessments have been paid in full.
      5.   FUNDING OF PROJECTS BY TOWN
      Property owners of single-family homes, townhouses and condominium
properties existing at the effective date of this ordinance may also request
that town council adopt a resolution providing that certain stormwater
improvement projects be funded entirely by the town. Projects will be qualified
relative to availability of budgeted funds and the town shall determine the
type of stormwater improvement solution to be applied. Project eligibility for
100 percent funding shall be determined, based on criteria which includes, but
is not limited to, the:
         (a)   Degree that drainage is contributing to a public safety and/or
health hazard;
         (b)   Relative amount of public stormwater runoff being conveyed by
drainage system;
         (c)   Anticipated negative environmental impacts (required
mitigation);
         (d)   Consistency with an approved stormwater plan.
      6.   PROJECTS ON UNDERSIZED PARCELS
      In the event a parcel, recorded prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, would be deemed unusable as a result of the requirements of this
ordinance, the owner may request authorization to make a cash payment to the
town in accordance with the fee schedule, as approved by the Town Council, in
place of the installation of the required storm water facilities.
   G.   RIGHT OF ENTRY
      1.   TOWN
      The Town shall have right-of-entry on or upon the property of any person
subject to this article and any construction permit issued under this article.
The Town shall be provided ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection monitoring, sampling, inventory, records examination and
copying, and the performance of any other duties necessary to determine
compliance with this article.
      2.   ENTRY WHEN SECURITY MEASURES ARE IN FORCE
      Where a person has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the person shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Town will be permitted to enter without delay
for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      3.   RIGHT TO SET UP SAMPLING OR METERING DEVICES
      The Town shall have the right to set up on the person’s property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the person’s
operations as it applies to this article.
      4.   REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS
      Any temporary or permanent obstruction which prohibits safe and easy
access to the areas to be inspected and/or monitored shall be removed promptly
by the person at the written or verbal request of the Town. The costs of
clearing such access shall be borne by the property owner.
      5.   INSPECTION TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE
      The Town may inspect the facilities of any user to ensure compliance with
this article. Such inspection shall be made with the consent of the owner,
manager or signatory official. The Town may seek issuance of an administrative
search warrant if such consent is refused.
   H.   ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS
   Any of the following violations of this Section and/or Section 9.2,
VIOLATIONS shall be subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided
by this ordinance and by state law.
      1.   CIVIL PENALTIES.
         (a)   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. The procedures for notice of, removal of,
and penalty for illicit connections shall be as follows:
            i.   Any person who is found responsible for an illicit connection
shall receive a notice of violation when the connection is discovered. The
person shall have thirty (30) days to remove the connection. If the connection
has not been removed at the end of that time, the town may enter the property
and take measures necessary to remove the connection and perform whatever
cleanup or abatement is necessary. If the person fails to remove the connection
in the time prescribed, the town may petition the superior court of justice for
the issuance of an injunction to compel removal and payment. Immediate removal
of the illicit connection shall be required if the town determines that the
connection poses an imminent threat to public health.
            ii.   If any person who previously has been found to have an
illicit connection reconnects to the municipal separate storm sewer, he shall
be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000.00. The penalty shall increase
by twenty-five (25) percent of the previous penalty amount for every subsequent
illicit connection made by the same person. The town shall consider the
following criteria in determining the amount of the penalty:
               a.   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources,
the public health, or the public or private property resulting from the
violation;
               b.   The duration and gravity of the violation;
               c.   The effect on groundwater or surface water quality or on
air quality;
               d.   The cost of rectifying the damage;
               e.   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
               f.   Whether the violation was committed willfully or
intentionally;
               g.   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the stormwater quality management program; and
               h.   The costs of enforcement to the town.
         (b)   IMPROPER DISPOSAL. The provisions for improper disposal of
process wastewater, bulk sale substances, household products and yard waste are
as follows:
            i.   PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any person who is found to have improperly
disposed of process wastewater to the municipal separate storm sewer shall be
assessed a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000.00. The town shall consider the
following criteria in determining the amount of the penalty:
               a.   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources,
the public health, or the public or private property resulting from the
violation;
               b.   The duration and gravity of the violation;
               c.   The effect on groundwater or surface water quality or on
air quality;
               d.   The cost of rectifying the damage;
               e.   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
               f.   Whether the violation was committed willfully or
intentionally;
               g.   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the stormwater quality management program; and
               h.   The costs of enforcement to the town.
            ii.   HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS. Any person who is found to have
improperly disposed of any substance that was purchased over-the-counter for
household, in quantities considered normal for household purposes, which, upon
discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system or drainage network,
would have an adverse impact on water quality or cause the town to be in
noncompliance with any applicable environmental permit shall be assessed a
civil penalty not to exceed $500.00. The town shall consider the following
criteria in determining the amount of the civil penalty:
               a.   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources
the public health, or the public or private property resulting from the
violation;
               b.   The duration and gravity of the violation;
               c.   The effect on groundwater or surface water quality or on
air quality;
               d.   The cost of rectifying the damage;
               e.   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
               f.   Whether the violation was committed willfully or
intentionally;
               g.   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the stormwater quality management program; and
               h.   The costs of enforcement to the town.
            iii.   YARD WASTE. Any person who is found to have improperly
disposed of leaves, grass clippings or other yard wastes shall be assessed a
civil penalty not to exceed $500.00. The town shall consider the following
criteria in determining the amount of the penalty:
               a.   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources,
the public health, or the public or private property resulting from the
violation;
               b.   The duration and gravity of the violation;
               c.   The effect on groundwater or surface water quality or on
air quality;
               d.   The cost of rectifying the damage;
               e.   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
               f.   Whether the violation was committed willfully or
intentionally;
               g.   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the stormwater quality management program; and
               h.   The costs of enforcement to the town.
            iv.   REPEAT VIOLATION. If a person is found to be responsible for
more than one instance of improper disposal, the penalty shall increase by
twenty-five (25) percent of the previous penalty amount for each subsequent
improper disposal. The penalties shall be additional to the cost of clean-up
and abatement.
            v.   FAILURE TO REPORT. The penalty assessed for any of the
violations listed in this section shall be increased by twenty-five (25)
percent of the amount assessed for any spill not properly reported by the
violator once he has knowledge of the violation.
            vi.   SUBSEQUENT PENALTIES. In the event there are subsequent
penalties assessed by the state against the town for any person’s improper
disposal or illegal dumping, or illicit connection into the municipal separate
storm sewer system, such person shall be assessed by the equivalent amount of
civil penalty.
      2.   PUBLIC NUISANCES.
         (a)   NUISANCES. The following conditions shall constitute a
detriment, danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the inhabitants of the town and shall be public nuisances wherever such
conditions may exist. The creation, maintenance or failure to abate any
nuisance is hereby declared unlawful.
            i.   Any condition which constitutes a breeding ground or harbor
for rats, mosquitoes, harmful insects or other pests.
            ii.   Any open place of concentration of combustible items such as
mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes, garbage, trash, refuse,
brush, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible materials or objects of a
like nature.
            iii.   An open place of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste, or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind.
            iv.   Any furniture, appliances, or metal products or any kind or
nature openly kept which have jagged edges of metal or glass, or areas of
confinement.
            v.   Any condition which blocks, hinders or obstructs in any way
the natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches or
drains to the extent that the premises and upstream is not free from standing
water.
         (b)   NOTICE TO ABATE; EMERGENCY ABATEMENT BY TOWN. If any person
shall violate the provisions of this article, it shall be the duty of the town
to give notice to the owner or to any person in possession of the subject
property, directing that all unlawful conditions existing upon the property be
abated within ten (10) days from the date of such notice or within ten (10)
days from the date of a final decision if appealed. If the town determines that
the unlawful condition poses an imminent danger or peril to the public, then an
authorized representative of the town may, without notice, proceed to abate the
unlawful condition. The cost thereof shall be charged against the property as a
lien collectible in the same manner as ad valorem taxes.
         (c)   Abatement by town where owner fails to abate. Upon the failure
of the owner or person in possession of any premises to abate within ten days
any unlawful condition existing on the premises, it shall be the duty of an
authorized representative of the town to cause the removal and abatement of
such unlawful condition.
      3.   REMEDIES.
      Any or all of the procedures set forth in Section
9.5, REMEDIES AND PENALTIES, as well as, the following procedures may be used
to enforce the provisions of this article:
         (a)   NOTIFICATION OF STATE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
               i.   INDUSTRIAL AND RELATED FACILITIES. When the town discovers
an apparent violation of an industrial or related facility’s NPDES stormwater
discharge permit, the town shall notify immediately the appropriate state
officials.
               ii.   CONSTRUCTION SITES. If the town discovers an apparent
violation of the NPDES stormwater discharge permit required by the state for
sites with land disturbing activity greater than five acres, he shall report
immediately the violation to the appropriate state officials.
               iii.   ABATEMENT. When the discharge from a facility interferes
significantly with the municipal separate storm sewer, and the facility fails
to take appropriate actions upon notification by the town, the town may take
immediate and appropriate measures to control the problem whether or not the
facility is violating its NPDES permit and recover the cost from the facility.
      4.   APPEAL HEARING
      Refer to Section
3.10, APPEAL
   I.   ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND IMPROPER DISPOSAL
      1.   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
         (a)   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Details concerning illicit connections
shall be as follows:
            i.   It shall be unlawful to use any stream or watercourse to carry
off water from any kitchen sink, lavatory, toilet, floor drain, shower, washing
machine, bathtub or privy, or to carry off any fluid of an offensive or
dangerous nature. No water or refuse from any industrial, commercial or
institutional process, including uncontaminated water used for heating or
cooling, shall be discharged in any stream or watercourse by any person until
such person has obtained the appropriate local, state and federal permits.
            ii.    Plans for all public and private streets and utilities shall
be submitted to the town for review. Construction of streets and utilities
shall not start until a permit-to-construct has been issued. Work performed
pursuant to a permit-to-construct shall be inspected and certified as complete
to the town by the design professional.
            iii.   It shall be unlawful to willfully or negligently injure,
deface, mutilate, destroy, tamper or interfere with the town sewer system.
         (b)   LITTER AND REFUSE CONTROL. It shall be unlawful to throw, place
or deposit any refuse in any street, public place, on any private property, or
in any conveyance within the town, except in garbage receptacles. It shall be
unlawful for any person to throw any garbage, refuse, grass, shrubbery, tree
clippings, bottles, cans or containers of any kind upon the street rights-of
way or any stormwater conveyance, or upon the private premises of another
person without the permission of the owner or person in control of the
premises, or upon any public property.
         (c)   ORGANIC WASTE. Details concerning organic waste shall be as
follows:
            i.   It shall be the duty of the property owner to keep piled
leaves out of the gutter, inlet, catch-basin or side ditch.
            ii.   It shall be unlawful to place stumps or any organic materials
(organic topsoil not included) on any property, public or private, except in
those specific public areas designated for such use by the town or on private
property with the approval of the owner of the property.
            iii.   It shall be unlawful to place grass clippings, leaves, tree
and shrub clippings, or any other yard wastes in any street, storm drain,
stream, stormwater conveyance, or any other location where concentrated
stormwater flows will wash such wastes into the storm sewers.
            iv.   While maintaining adequate erosion control measures and
compliance with federal and state wetland regulations, every owner and every
person in possession of any premises across or through which any stream or open
ditch runs, or on which any body of water is impounded shall keep the banks,
bottoms and edges free and clear of all vegetation which might grow in, on or
overhang into the water in such stream, ditch or other body of water and which
thereby results in impeding the flow, creating stagnation, and/or impacting the
water body’s performance for water quantity or quality control.
            v.   Every owner and every person in possession of any premises
across or through which runs any stream or open ditch, or on which any body of
water is impounded shall not apply fertilizer in excessive amounts in or around
these areas so as to cause vegetative growth at a rate or in a manner that will
cause or result in impeding the flow, creating stagnation and/or impacting the
water body’s performance for water quantity or quality control or at a rate
that could be considered an illicit discharge or create problems of a similar
nature off the site.
            vi.   In the event of a declaration of a state of emergency by the
town council, Section (A) c. “Organic waste” will be temporarily suspended.
      2.   HAZARDOUS SPILL RESPONSE
         (a)   PURPOSE; AUTHORITY. The town shall have the authority to
summarily abate, control and contain hazardous materials, which are emitted
into the environment in such a manner as to endanger the health or safety of
the general public or the environment. The town shall have the authority with
or without the owner’s consent to enter public or private property to respond
to such hazardous materials emergencies. The town shall determine the type,
amount and quantity of equipment and personnel required to adequately abate,
control and contain all hazardous materials which are emitted into the
environment.
         (b)   RESPONSIBILITY; FEES, CHARGES. The property owner and/or the
person exercising control over the hazardous materials that create the
hazardous material emergency shall be held financially liable for the response,
control, containment, equipment and materials costs incurred by the town fire
department during the emergency. Fire department cost shall be calculated using
current Office of emergency Management schedule for hazardous material response
The property owner and/or person exercising control over such hazardous
material may provide personnel to assist abatement, removal and remedial
measures, provided such personnel have been adequately equipped and trained
pursuant to the requirements of state and federal laws. The town shall not be
liable for the use of outside personnel. Assistance shall consist of any or all
of the following:
            i.   Informing fire department personnel of all matters pertaining
to the incident;
            ii.   Supplying emergency response plan information for the site;
or
            iii.   Supplying emergency response equipment, personnel and
materials. The property owner and/or the person exercising control over the
hazardous materials shall be responsible for the costs of abatement, control
and containment of hazardous material responses or fire incidents involving
hazardous material. Failure of the property owner and/or the person exercising
control over the hazardous materials to pay the county for the charges shall
give the town a right to levy a lien upon the land or the premises where the
hazardous material emergency arose and the levy shall be collected in the same
manner as unpaid taxes pursuant to the authority of state law.
         (c)    Fire incidents involving hazardous materials. In fire incidents
that involve hazardous materials or an exposure to hazardous materials, no fee
will be assessed for resources normally associated with firefighting
operations.
   J.   INDUSTRIAL AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
      1.   REVIEW OF STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLANS.
      The town may review the stormwater pollution prevention plans required
under a facility’s NPDES stormwater, discharge permit when outfall monitoring
or the illicit discharge/improper disposal program locates a suspected
violator.
6.21    STREETS
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by requiring the uniform construction of streets.
Street rights-of-way are designed and developed to serve several functions: (i)
to carry motor vehicle traffic, and in some cases, allow on-street parking;
(ii) to provide a safe and convenient passageway for pedestrian traffic; and
(iii) to serve as an important link in the town’s drainage system.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   New streets will generally be dedicated to the town or NC Department of
Transportation. Private streets are generally only permitted in minor
subdivisions or within attached dwelling developments and are also regulated by
this section.
   C.   DESIGN STANDARDS – PUBLIC STREETS
      1.   New public streets in the city limits must meet the Town of
Wallace's Standard Specifications for Street Construction and Acceptance
Procedures in the Checklist and Approval Requirements for Utility Projects.
      2.   Public streets in developments in the Town’s extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction must be approved and accepted by the NC Department of
Transportation.
      3.   Minimum right of way widths by public street type:
         (a)   Arterial Streets shall provide 100 feet of public right of way
         (b)   Collector Streets shall provide 70 feet of public right of way
         (c)   Local Streets shall provide 60 feet of public right of way
         (d)   Cul de sacs shall provide 50 feet of public right of way
      4.   Additional street right-of-way may be required in cases where
underground public utilities, sidewalks, and drainage facilities cannot all be
located within the minimum stated above.
      5.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at an angle less
than sixty (60) degrees.
      6.   The proposed street layout shall be coordinated with the existing
street system of the surrounding area. Where possible, proposed streets shall
be the extension of existing streets. Modification of the existing grid pattern
may be allowed to accommodate site topography.
      7.   To maximize connectivity for public safety and avoid the requirement
for additional right of way width improvement and dedication, block lengths
will generally not exceed 400 feet and there will be two points of access for
any street containing 30 or more dwellings not equipped with individual
sprinkler systems.
      8.   All permanent dead-end streets (as opposed to temporary dead-end
streets or stubouts) shall be developed as cul-de-sacs in accordance with the
standards set forth in the Fire Code. To avoid the requirement of additional
right of way width improvement and dedication, dead-end streets may not exceed
400 feet in length.
      9.   Cul-de-sacs shall not be used to avoid connection with an existing
street or to avoid the extension of an important street.
      10.   Whenever possible, proposed intersections along one side of a
street shall coincide with existing or proposed intersection on the opposite
side of such street. In any event, where a centerline offset (jog) occurs at an
intersection, the distance between centerlines of the intersecting streets
shall be not less than 150 feet.
      11.   Except when no other alternative is practicable or legally
possible, no two streets may intersect with any other street on the same side
at a distance of less than 400 feet measured from centerline to centerline of
the intersecting street. When the intersected street is an arterial, the
distance between intersecting streets shall be at least 1000 feet.
      12.   The permit issuing authority may require the applicant to extend a
right of way, build the street, and/or provide a temporary cul-de-sac in order
to stub out streets that should be connected to existing or proposed streets
outside the subdivision.
   D.   DESIGN STANDARDS - PRIVATE ROADS
      1.   Any private road within an attached dwelling or multi-family
development must meet the design standards for town public streets.
      2.   Any private road within a minor residential subdivision must have a
minimum right of way width of twenty feet which includes the travel way and
associated drainage facilities. Any underground utilities may be located within
the road right of way or a separate utility right of way.
      3.   A private road within a minor residential subdivision may be
required to provide a right of way of fifty (50) feet if the land and lots are
arranged to allow the potential conversion of the road to a public road. If the
lot arrangement, surrounding development pattern, zoning, and existing town
plans indicate conversion is unlikely, the permit issuing authority may allow a
private road to reduce the right of way width to no less than 18 feet.
      4.   Lots for single family detached dwellings may be created with access
to a private road provided that:
         (a)   No more than four (4) lots may have their sole access to the
private road;
         (b)   A new private road shall not be an extension of any existing
public or private road; and
         (c)   A new private road shall not be aligned with an existing public
road in such a way as may interfere with any planned extension of the public
road.
      5.   The intent of this subsection is primarily to allow the creation of
not more than four (4) lots with frontage on a private road for single-family
development. Therefore, the Town may not approve any project served by a
private road authorized by this subsection in which one (1) or more of the lots
thereby created is intended for:
         (a)   Two-family or multi-family residential use, or
         (b)   Any other residential use or nonresidential use that would tend
to generate more traffic than that customarily generated by four (4) single-
family residences.
      6.   To ensure that the intent of this subsection is not subverted, the
Town may, among other possible options, require that the approved plans show
the types and locations of buildings on each lot or that the lots in a
residential development served by a private road be smaller than the
permissible size of lots on which two-family or multifamily developments could
be located, or that restrictive covenants limiting the use of the subdivided
property in accordance with this section be recorded before final plat
approval.
      7.   No final plat that shows lots served by private roads may be
recorded unless the final plat contains the following notation: “Further
subdivision of any lot shown on this plat as served by a private road may be
prohibited by the Town of Wallace Unified Development Ordinance.”
      8.   The recorded plat of any development that includes a private road
shall clearly state that such road is a private road and must be accompanied by
a private road maintenance agreement that is also recorded.
   E.   STREET NAMES AND SIGNS – PUBLIC AND PRIVATE STREETS
      1.   Names of streets which duplicate or can be confused with the names
of existing streets within Duplin County, shall not be approved. New street
names shall be reviewed and approved by Duplin County E-911 Addressing so as to
avoid duplication and/or unnecessary confusion caused by similar street names.
      2.   Extensions of existing and named streets shall bear the name of such
existing streets.
      3.   House numbering will be assigned by the Duplin County E-911
Addressing department in accordance with its policies. All structures must
display current and correct 911-address as per Section
6.15.
      4.   Approved street name signs shall be erected by the applicant at the
intersection of streets as specified in the Manual of Uniform Traffic Devices.
6.22    TREE PROTECTION STANDARDS
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by requiring the preservation, maintenance, and
protection of the tree coverage area. Preservation of the tree coverage area
helps to reduce carbon emissions and decrease the urban “heat-island” effect.
   B.   APPLICABILITY
   Every application for a Master Plan, site plan, grading plan, or Special Use
Permit or any modification to any of the listed permit types shall provide a
tree inventory and protection plan. This plan shall also be included in the
grading plan of the construction drawings for any of the review types listed.
Applicants submitting a grading plan as part of a Zoning Compliance Permit
application where no building or structure is proposed shall also submit
provide a tree inventory and protection plan.
   C.   REQUIREMENTS
      1.   Grading and tree protection plans shall indicate the limits of the
area to be disturbed. This limit shall be marked in the field with tree
protection fencing and signs and shall be verified by Planning Staff before
grading work begins.
      2.   Tree inventories shall identify all canopy trees on site including
the diameter (dbh) and species. Plans shall clearly indicate the trees to be
removed and those to remain.
      3.   For sites exceeding 20 acres, the applicant may provide 100’ X 100’
sample survey areas for each separate undisturbed portion of the site
containing an acre or more.
      4.   When an application only approves the installation of infrastructure
for a site and the creation of lots for single family residential development,
survey data is required within the disturbed areas of the site.
      5.   Applications shall clearly state, in table form:
         (a)   the number of canopy trees to be removed
         (b)   an estimate of the number of canopy trees being retained
         (c)   the number of trees 24” or greater dbh to be removed
         (d)   the percentage of tree cover area before development
         (e)   the percentage of tree cover area after development.
      6.   For each 24” or greater tree proposed for removal, the applicant
shall indicate all design alternatives considered to allow the retention of the
tree.
      7.   A tree protection plan will show the tree coverage area before
development and shall indicate which method was used to calculate the tree
coverage area.
   D.   STANDARDS
      1.   Applications shall clearly state the number of canopy trees to be
removed, along with an estimate of the number being retained on site.
      2.   Applications shall also include a calculation of percentage of the
site covered by tree coverage area before and after development.
         (a)   For sites with existing, pre-development tree coverage area that
covers 25% or less of the site, it is expected that the developed condition of
the site shall not reduce this percentage.
         (b)   For sites with existing, pre-development tree coverage area that
covers more than 25% but less than 50% of the site, maintenance of the tree
coverage area is required.
         (c)   For sites with existing pre-development tree coverage area that
covers more than 50% of the site, some reduction of that percentage may be
approved by the permit issuing authority.
   E.   PRIORITY TREE RETENTION AREAS
   Priority areas for retention of existing tress and vegetation shall include
the following (listed in priority order from highest priority to lowest
priority):
      (a)   Areas containing canopy trees 24” dbh or greater and their critical
root zones
      (b)   Areas containing groups or stands of mature trees that provide
important design, buffering, forest preservation, or wildlife functions.
      (c)   Riparian buffers, wetlands, or wetland protection areas
      (d)   Areas with a natural grade of 15% or more
      (e)   Areas needed for required landscaping
      (f)   Wildlife habitat or other sensitive natural areas.
Figure 6-11: TREE PROTECTION ZONE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-310.jpg]
 
   E.   PRIORITY TREE RETENTION AREAS
   Priority areas for retention of existing tress and vegetation shall include
the following (listed in priority order from highest priority to lowest
priority):
         (a)   Areas containing canopy trees 24” dbh or greater and their
critical root zones
         (b)   Areas containing groups or stands of mature trees that provide
important design, buffering, forest preservation, or wildlife functions.
         (c)   Riparian buffers, wetlands, or wetland protection areas
         (d)   Areas with a natural grade of 15% or more
         (e)   Areas needed for required landscaping
         (f)   Wildlife habitat or other sensitive natural areas.
   F.   REVEGETATION
      1.   If canopy trees are removed from an area not designated for removal
on the approved grading plan, the applicant shall replant trees on an inch per
inch basis based on caliper or trunk diameter the size of the removed canopy
tree(s) elsewhere on the site, OR preserve an additional area on the site with
comparable tree composition that is the same size as the area damaged. For
example, if 6 canopy trees are improperly removed from a site, each with a 10”
diameter truck, 60” of new trees must be planted on site OR 60” worth of new
canopy trees must be preserved on site.
      2.   Planted trees will be of a similar species, if available, and shall
be a minimum of 2” caliper at time of planting.
      3.   If a site does not contain sufficient space to create healthy
habitat for the needed replanting, the applicant may make a payment to the Town
(to be used for planting by the Tree Board) in an amount equal to the cost of
acquiring and planting the required trees OR may make the plantings elsewhere
but within the development in which the site is located, if applicable.
6.23   WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
   Plans for a proposed public or community sewage system shall be approved by
the Public Works Director, Health Department, or Director of the Division of
Environmental Management, whichever is appropriate.
   On-site septic tanks shall be approved by the Duplin County Health
Department and/or comply with other agencies and jurisdictions.
6.24    WATER SUPPLY
   Plans for a proposed public or community water system shall be approved by
the Public Works Director, Health Department, or Director of the Division of
Environmental Management, whichever is appropriate.
Chapter 7 – Nonconformities
Table of Contents
   
7.1   General Applicability
   
7.2   Nonconforming Uses
   
7.3   Nonconforming Characteristics of Use
   
7.4   Nonconforming Structures
   
7.5   Nonconforming Lots of Record
7.1   GENERAL APPLICABILITY
   A.   NONCONFORMITIES GENERALLY
   Uses of land which do not conform to the requirements of this Ordinance may
not be enlarged, expanded, nor altered, except in conformance with this
Ordinance.
   Nonconformities shall not be used as grounds for adding other prohibited
uses or structures, nor for the enlarging by means of extension or expansion,
except as specifically provided by this Ordinance.
   B.   COMPLETION OF NONCONFORMING PROJECTS
      1.   For purposes of this section, a nonconforming project shall include
any structure, development, or undertaking that is incomplete at the effective
date of this Ordinance, or amendment thereto, and would be inconsistent with
any regulation applicable to the district in which it is located if completed
as proposed or planned.
      2.   A nonconforming project for which a completed application has been
submitted to and accepted by the Planning Director prior to the effective date
of this Ordinance shall be reviewed in accordance with the standards applicable
on the date the complete application was accepted.
      3.   Any nonconforming project for which a permit was issued under the
previous Zoning Ordinance may be completed in accordance with the terms of such
permit, so long as it remains unexpired and unrevoked.
      4.   If a permit has been issued for a nonconforming project and such
permit remains unexpired and unrevoked, an applicant may seek modification of
such permit from the permit issuing authority that granted the original permit,
and such permit issuing authority may approve the requested modification if it
determines that the proposed changes will result in a project that is not more
nonconforming in terms of the present Ordinance than the project approved under
the previous Ordinance.
   C.   CLASSIFICATION OF NONCONFORMITIES
   Nonconformities are classified as:
      1.   Uses of major structures and premises (Section
7.2),
      2.   Characteristics of uses (Section
7.3) which were lawful but would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted by the
enactment of this Ordinance or a subsequent amendment thereto,
      3.   Structures (Section
7.4) and/or
      4.   Lots (Section
7.5).
7.2   NONCONFORMING USES
   A.   INTENT CONCERNING NONCONFORMING USES: SPECIFICALLY DECLARED TO BE
INCOMPATIBLE WITH PERMITTED USES
   It is the intent of this Ordinance that nonconforming uses of land shall be
considered to be incompatible with the permitted uses within the district(s) in
which they are located. Such nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged or
extended in any respect.
   Once a nonconforming use has ceased to operate or has been discontinued for
a period of 120 consecutive days, it may not be resumed and shall only be
replaced with a conforming use.
   B.   CHANGE OF USE
      1.   GENERAL
      A nonconforming use shall not be changed to any other nonconforming use,
except as provided in Section
7.2(B)(2), EXCEPTIONS.
      2.   EXCEPTIONS
      Nonconforming residential, office, or personal services uses within an
industrial or commercial base zoning district may be continued or replaced by
another nonconforming residential, office, or personal service use, upon the
issuance of a Zoning Compliance Permit based on the standards in Section
7.2(B)(3).
      Nonconforming non-residential uses within a residential zoning district
may be replaced by another nonconforming non-residential use, upon the issuance
of a Zoning Compliance Permit based on the standards in Section
7.2(B)(3).
      3.   The Planning Director may issue a Zoning Compliance Permit for a
replacement use described in Section
7.2(B)(2), EXCEPTIONS, if the applicant substantiates that:
         (a)   The proposed use is a permitted use in some zoning district with
either Zoning Compliance Permit or site plan approval;
         (b)   All the applicable requirements of this Ordinance must be met to
the extent reasonably possible. Compliance with a requirement of this Ordinance
is not reasonably possible if compliance cannot be achieved without adding
additional land to the lot where the nonconforming situation is maintained or
moving a substantial structure that is on a permanent foundation. Mere
financial hardship caused by the cost of meeting such requirements as paved
parking or increased landscaping does not constitute grounds for finding that
compliance is not reasonably possible. And in no case may an applicant be given
permission pursuant to this subsection to construct a building or add to an
existing building if additional nonconformities would thereby be created; and,
         (c)   The proposed replacement use will have the same or less adverse
impact on those most affected by it than the existing or previous nonconforming
use, and will be equal or more compatible with the surrounding neighborhood
than the existing or previous nonconforming use applied for. The applicant
shall provide the following information for both the existing and proposed use
to demonstrate to the Planning Director the existence of an equal or less
adverse impact on the surrounding areas:
            i.   Hours of operation;
            ii.   Traffic generation by vehicle type;
            iii.   Number of employees;
            iv.   External changes to structure;
            v.   Noxious exposure;
            vi.   Customer traffic, including time of day and number of trips;
and
            vii.   Nature of use type.
         (d)   The cost of any reconstruction or renovation associated with the
use change does not exceed one-third (1/3) of the existing structure’s
replacement cost (new) prior to the reconstruction or renovation. In cases
where the reconstruction or renovation cost exceeds one-third (1/3) of the
structure’s replacement cost (new), then the use and structure must conform to
the requirements of the district where located.
         (e)   In the case of a non-residential use in a residential zoning
district, the structure is not reasonably suitable for a use allowed by right
in the zoning district due to unique or unusual construction or
characteristics.
7.3   NONCONFORMING CHARACTERISTICS OF USE
   A.   Conforming uses with nonconforming characteristics may continue to
operate but shall not be expanded, altered, changed, or relocated in such a
manner as to increase the degree of nonconformity.
   B.   Nonconforming characteristics which can reasonably be corrected shall
be addressed during the review of a new site plan or special use permit. For
example, compliance may not be reasonably possible when compliance cannot be
achieved without adding additional land to the lot, moving a substantial
structure that is on a permanent foundation, or other significant site work.
The permit-issuing authority may consider the cost of eliminating nonconforming
characteristics in relation to the total project cost and the benefit to the
community when determining what improvements are reasonable.
   C.   MULTIPLE DETACHED DWELLINGS ON A SINGLE PARCEL
   The Town recognizes that some historic development patterns are inconsistent
with modern requirements, and that some of the existing development patterns
are part of the historic character of the Town. The Town finds that when such
historic patterns persist into the present in a way that is consistent with the
nearby surrounding development, it may advance the Town’s interest in
preserving its historic character to allow the inconsistent pattern to remain,
but to regulate the inconsistent land use in a manner as consistent with the
modern requirements as possible to prevent unintended consequences.
   Therefore, where two (2) or more detached single family residential
structures exist on a single lot in the R-6, R-6MH, R-8, or R-10 District as of
the original adoption date of this ordinance, the Planning Director may approve
a plat to place each residential structure on an independent lot provided the
plat shows:
      1.   That all lots have 30 feet of road frontage and access to a public
road;
      2.   That all lots have no more than one single family residential
structure on the lot;
      3.   That all lots provide for minimum side yard setbacks of at least 2
feet and a rear yard setback of at least 2 feet;
      4.   The plat shall evenly divide the space between the existing
structures; and
      5.   No more than 10 lots may be created from a single parcel pursuant to
this section.
7.4   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
   A.   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE, OTHER THAN SIGNS
   A structure (other than a sign) which is nonconforming, due to non-
compliance with one or more requirements in Section
6.3, DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS, of this Ordinance and which is used for a use
permitted in the district in which located, may remain, provided:
      1.   That any structural change to the structure shall not increase the
degree of nonconformity. Structural changes which decrease or do not affect the
degree of nonconformity shall be permitted.
      2.   That a nonconforming commercial or industrial structure or portion
thereof which is damaged by causes other than the intentional or reckless acts
of the property owner or authorized agent to such an extent that the cost to
repair does not exceed fifty (50) percent of the structure’s taxable value, may
be reconstructed. If such a structure is damaged by the intentional or reckless
act of the property owner or authorized agent, or is otherwise damaged to such
an extent that the cost to repair exceeds fifty (50%) percent of the
structure’s current tax value, or is destroyed, then the structure may not be
reconstructed except in accordance with all requirements established by this
Ordinance for the zoning district in which it is situated.
      3.   That a nonconforming residential structure, or a portion thereof
which is partially or totally destroyed, may be reconstructed or replaced. The
total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming use may not be increased,
except that a larger, single-family residential structure may be constructed in
place of a smaller one, a larger mobile home intended for residential use may
replace a smaller one, and a mobile home may be replaced by a framed structure.
The reconstructed residential structure may not be more nonconforming with
respect to dimensional restrictions such as, yard requirements, height
limitations, or density requirements, and such dimensional nonconformities must
be eliminated if that can reasonably be accomplished without unduly burdening
the reconstruction process or limiting the right to continue the nonconforming
use of such structure. A building permit must be obtained within one (1) year
from the time of damage or destruction.
      4.   Nonconforming provisions related to signs are provided in Section
6.19, SIGNAGE.
   B.   ADDITIONS TO NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
   The Planning Director may issue a Zoning Compliance Permit to authorize an
existing nonconforming structure to encroach upon a setback required in Section
6.3, DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS, provided:
      1.   The proposed encroachment results from an addition to or extension
of an existing structure that already is nonconforming with respect to the
requirements of Section
6.3, DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS; and
      2.   The proposed addition or extension will not encroach upon any
required front, rear, or side yard to a greater extent than the existing
structure on that lot.
   C.   NONCONFORMING USES OF MAJOR STRUCTURES AND PREMISES IN COMBINATION
   Nonconforming use of structures may be continued provided:
      1.   Such uses may not be enlarged, extended, altered, or replaced,
except for to change to a use permitted in the district in which located,
except as provided in Section
7.4(C)(2) below.
      2.   A nonconforming use may be extended through portions of a building
manifestly arranged or intended for such use, but not otherwise, and shall not
extend to occupy land outside such building or any additional building not used
for such nonconforming use at the time that nonconforming status was
established.
      3.   If a nonconforming use ceases for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days, subsequent use shall conform to the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   D.   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES UNSAFE FOR REASONS OTHER THAN LACK OF
MAINTENANCE
   Nonconforming structures or portions thereof, which the Planning Director
has declared unsafe, but not because of lack of maintenance, may be repaired
and restored to the extent required to make them safe unless this would violate
those provisions of Section
7.4(A), NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OTHER THAN SIGNS.
7.5   NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD
   A.   USE OF SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS FOR ONE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLINGS
   A one-family detached dwelling and customary accessory structure may be
erected, occupied, and used on a single nonconforming lot of record, subject to
Section
7.5(B), COMBINATION OF CONTIGUOUS NONCONFORMING LOTS IN SINGLE OWNERSHIP AND
WITH CONTINUOUS FRONTAGE, EXCEPTION, and in accord with requirements applying
in the district.
   B.   COMBINATION OF CONTIGUOUS NONCONFORMING LOTS IN SINGLE OWNERSHIP AND
WITH CONTINUOUS FRONTAGE; EXCEPTION
   It is the intent of this subsection to require undeveloped nonconforming
lots (those having separate, individual deeds) held in single ownership to be
combined with other nonconforming lots to create less nonconforming lots under
the circumstances below, but not to require such combination when it would be
out of character with the way the neighborhood has previously been developed.
      1.   Where two (2) or more undeveloped nonconforming lots in single
ownership adjoin and have continuous road frontage, such lots shall be combined
to create less nonconforming lots with respect to minimum lot size, road
frontage, and setback requirements.
      2.   Combination of nonconforming, continuous frontage lots in single
ownership shall not be required when all of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   One (1) or more of the lots contains a principal structure built
before the original adoption date of this ordinance,
         (b)   The existing structure does not cross the property line between
two nonconforming lots,
         (c)   Any vacant lot(s) are not less than fifty (50) feet wide,
         (d)   The lots will be used for one family detached dwellings and
customary accessory structures,
         (e)   A majority of the developed residential lots within five hundred
feet (500) feet of such lots are also nonconforming with regard to minimum lot
size or frontage, and
         (f)   Adequate water and sewer facilities exist or will be install to
accommodate the small lot size.
      3.   Combination is also not required when the nonconforming lot was
created by public taking action or as a result of a court order.
   C.   LOTS NOT MEETING MINIMUM LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS
   In any district in which single family dwellings are permitted, any lot of
record existing at the time of the adoption of these regulations which has
dimensions which are less than require by these regulations may be used as
building site for a single family dwelling providing the lot area and width are
not less than eighty (80) percent of the requirements in the district. If the
lot is smaller or narrower, a variance may be requested from the Board of
Adjustment.
   D.   YARD REQUIREMENTS MODIFIED
   Lots created prior to the adoption of this ordinance, where a lot width or
depth is less than that required in the zoning district to which it is located,
a structure will be allowed to be built or placed upon the lot as long as it
can meet the current required setbacks. Otherwise, a yard modification may be
permitted with a variance granted by the Board of Adjustment.
Chapter 8 – Maintenance Standards
Table of Contents
   
8.1   Purpose
   
8.2   Minimum Housing Code
   
8.3   Non-Residential Maintenance Standards
   
8.4   Prevention of Demolition by Neglect
8.1   PURPOSE
   It is the general purpose and intent of this chapter to preserve and promote
the public health, safety and general welfare of the people of the Town and
environs. This includes, among others, physical, aesthetic and monetary values.
It is recognized that there may now be, or, may in the future be, residential
and nonresidential buildings, structures, yards or vacant areas and
combinations thereof which are so dilapidated, unsafe, dangerous, unhygienic,
overcrowded, inadequately maintained or lacking in basic equipment or
facilities, light, ventilation and heating so as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety, and general welfare of the people. The establishment and
enforcement of minimum housing and property maintenance standards is necessary
to preserve and promote the private and public interest.
8.2   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
   A.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   Pursuant to the G.S. 160D-1201, it is hereby declared that there exists in
the Town of Wallace dwellings that are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation; defects increasing the hazard of fire, accidents or other
calamities; lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities; and other
conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary; and there exist
abandoned structures which constitute health and safety hazards due to the
attraction of insects, conditions creating fire hazards, dangerous conditions
constituting a threat to children, and frequent use by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities; such that these dwellings and
abandoned structures are detrimental to the health, safety and morals, and
otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the town of Wallace.
   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
Town of Wallace as authorized by Chapter 160D of the General Statutes, it is
the purpose of this ordinance to establish minimum standards of fitness for the
initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, and
for all abandoned structures, as expressly authorized by G.S. 160D-1205.
   B.   DEFINITIONS
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this ordinance:
      1.   BASEMENT - A portion of the dwelling which is located partly
underground, having direct access to light and air from windows located above
the level of the adjoining ground.
      2.   CELLAR - a portion of the dwelling which is located partly or wholly
underground having inadequate access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
      3.   DETERIORATED - a dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this ordinance except at a cost not more than 50% of
its value, as determined by the finding of the Planning Director.
      4.   DILAPIDATED - a dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this ordinance except at a cost more than 50% of its
value, as determined by the finding of the Planning Director.
      5.   DWELLING - any building, structure, or part thereof which is wholly
or partly used or intended to be used for living, sleeping or habitation by
human occupants, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto
or usually enjoyed therewith. Temporary housing, as hereinafter defined shall
not be regarded as a dwelling. The term shall include with its meaning the
terms rooming house and rooming unit, as hereinafter defined.
      6.   DWELLING UNIT - any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling
and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended
to be used for living, sleeping cooking and eating.
      7.   EXTERMINATION - the control and elimination of insects, rodents or
mother pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as
their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or trapping; or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the Planning
Director.
      8.   GARBAGE - the organic waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      9.   Gender words having a masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter genders.
      10.   HABITABLE ROOM - a room enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathroom,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers, or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      11.   INFESTATION - the presence, within or around a dwelling, of any
insects, rodents or other pests in such number to constitute a menace to
health, safety or welfare to the occupants or the public.
      12.   MULTIPLE DWELLING - any dwelling containing more than two dwelling
units.
      13.   OCCUPANT - any person over one year of age, living, sleeping,
cooking or eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit,
or rooming unit.
      14.   OPERATOR - any person that has charge, care or control of a
building, or part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming are let.
      15.   OWNER - any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others;
         (a)   Shall have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit,
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Shall be a mortgagee of record of any dwelling, dwelling unit or
rooming unit; or
         (c)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling
unit or rooming unit; or as executor, executrix, administrator, administration,
trustee or guardian of the estate of the actual owner. Any such person thus
representing the owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this
ordinance, and the rules and regulations pursuant thereto, to the same extent
as if he were owner.
      16.   PARTIES OR PARTIES IN INTEREST - all parties whom have interest of
record in a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and any persons who are in
possession thereof.
      17.   PERSON - any individual, corporation, firm, partnership,
association, organization or any other legal entity.
      18.   PLUMBING - includes all of the following supplied facilities and
equipment: gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage
disposal units, sewage disposal pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dish
washers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower bathes, installed clothes washing
machine, catch basins, drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all water, sewer and gas lines.
      19.   PUBLIC AUTHORITY - any official who is in charge of any department
or branch of government of the Town of Wallace, Duplin County or the State of
North Carolina relating to health, fire or building regulations or other
activities concerning dwellings in the Town of Wallace and its jurisdiction.
      20.   ROOMING HOUSE - any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling
containing one or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or
operator to three or more persons not husband and wife, son and daughter,
mother or father, sister or brother of the owner or operator.
      21.   ROOMING UNIT - any room or group of rooms forming a single
habitable unit used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not
cooking or eating purposes.
      22.   RUBBISH - non-organic waste material. The term shall include paper,
rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass and dust.
      23.   SUPPLIED - paid for, furnished, or provided for, or under the
control of, the owner or operator.
      24.   TEMPORARY HOUSING - any tent, trailer or other structure used for
human shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached
to the ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same
premises for more than thirty consecutive days.
      25.   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION - that conditions exist in a dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit which violate or do not comply
with one or more of the minimum housing standards of fitness or one or more of
the requirements established by the ordinance.
      26.   Words having certain meaning whenever the words "dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming house, rooming unit, premises", are used in this ordinance, they
shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part
thereof".
   C.   MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS
      1.    Every dwelling and dwelling used for human habitation, or held out
of use for human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum standards of
fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of Sections
8.2(D), MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION  through
8.2(I) MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS of
this ordinance.
      2.   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use for human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which does
not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation
and all of the requirements of Sections
8.2(D), MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION  through
8.2(I) MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATION.
   D.   MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of a dwelling or dwelling unit:
      1.   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated, or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks that may
admit rodents.
      2.   Floors and roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
      3.   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
      4.   Steps, stairs, landings, porches, or other parts or appurtenances
shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or collapse.
      5.   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
      6.   Interior walls and all ceilings, closets and hallways shall be
finished of suitable materials, which will, by reasonable household methods
promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in such a manner so
as to enable occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between various spaces.
      7.   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors and all
doors and windows exposed to weather shall be constructed and maintained as to
be weather and watertight.
      8.   There shall be no chimney or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
      9.   There shall be no use of ground for floors or use of wood floors on
the ground.
   E.   MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC PLUMBING, HEATING AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
AND FACILITIES
      1.   PLUMBING SYSTEM
         (a)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply
and to a public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
         (b)   Each dwelling shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and adequate supply of both hot and cold
water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe distribution system
connected to a potable water supply.
         (c)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the state
plumbing code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
         (d)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the
dwelling unit and be accessible to the occupants of the same. The water closet
and shower or tub shall be located in a room affording privacy to the user.
      2.   HEATING SYSTEMS
      Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities providing heat
according with the following:
         (a)   Central and Electric Heating Systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is
connected and shall follow the U.S. Governmental Guidelines for temperature
settings.
         (b)   Other Heating Facilities. Where central or electric heating is
not provided, each dwelling unit shall be provided with sufficient fire place
chimneys, flues, gas vents or other facilities to which heating appliances may
be connected to heat all habitable rooms and shall follow the U.S. Governmental
Guidelines for temperature settings.
      3.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
         (a)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric
lights and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least
two floor or wall type convenience receptacles connected in such a manner as
determined by the State Electrical code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one ceiling
or wall type electric light fixture. In the event the ceiling or wall type
fixture is not provided at least three wall or floor type convenience
receptacles shall be provided.
         (b)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall
provide adequate electric lighting at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
         (c)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be
maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electrical Code.
   F.   MINIMUM STANDARD FOR VENTILATION
      1.   GENERAL
      Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured between
stops, for every habitable room shall be ten percent of the floor area of such
room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window or any room
and such light-obstructing structures are located less than five feet from the
window and extend to a level which is above that of the ceiling or the room,
such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall
not be included as being a contribution to the required minimum window area.
      Whenever the only window in the room is a skylight-type window in the top
of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall be at least fifteen
percent of the total floor area of such room.
      2.   HABITABLE ROOMS
      Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which can
easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately ventilate the room.
The total openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal to forty-
five percent of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight window size as
required or shall have other approved equivalent ventilation.
      3.   EVERY BATHROOM AND WATER CLOSET
      Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with all of the
lighting and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms except that no window
or skylight shall be required in adequately ventilated bathroom and water
closet rooms equipped with approved ventilation systems.
   G.   MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SPACE, USE AND LOCATION
   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least one hundred and fifty square feet
of habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least one hundred square
feet of additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at
least seventy five square feet of additional habitable floor area for each
additional occupant.
   In every dwelling unit and every rooming unit, every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least seventy square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least fifty square feet of floor area for each
occupant twelve years of age and over and at least thirty five square feet of
floor area for each occupant under twelve years of age.
      1.   ROOM SIZES
      Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size in each
habitable room as required by State Residential Building Code.
      2.   CEILING HEIGHT
      Every habitable room in every dwelling unit shall be at least seven feet
from floor to ceiling. That portion of the room which is less than five square
feet shall not be considered habitable floor area.
      3.   FLOOR AREA CALCULATION
      Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room area.
However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling unit may count for ten
percent of the habitable floor area. The floor area of any part of the room
where the ceiling height is less than four and one half feet shall not be
considered as part of the floor area for the purpose of determining maximum
permissible occupancy.
      4.   CELLAR
      No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
      5.   BASEMENTS
      No basements shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (a)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight.
      (b)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms.
      (c)   The minimum window area of every habitable room is entirely above
the grade adjoining such window area, except where the window or windows face a
stairwell, window well or access-way.
   H.   MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE
      1.   EXTERIOR FOUNDATION AND ROOFS
      Every foundation wall, exterior wall and exterior roof shall be
substantially weather tight and rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; shall be capable of affording privacy; and shall be safe to
use and shall capable of supporting the load for which normal use would cause
to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be protected with paint or
other protective covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of moisture or
weather.
      2.   INTERIOR FLOORS, WALLS AND CEILING
      Every floor, interior walls and ceilings shall be substantially rodent
proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; and shall be safe to
use and capable of supporting the load which normal use would cause to be
placed thereon.
      3.   WINDOWS AND DOORS
      Every window and exterior door, basement door or cellar door and hatchway
shall be substantially weather tight, watertight and rodent proof, and shall be
kept in sound working condition and good repair.
      4.   STAIRS, PORCHES AND APPURTENANCES
      Every inside and outside stairs, porch and any appurtenance thereto shall
be safe to use and capable of supporting the use that normal use would cause to
be place thereon and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
      5.   BATHROOM FLOORS
      Every bathroom floor surface and water closet compartment floor surface
shall be constructed and maintained so that it will be reasonably impervious to
water and will permit such floor to be easily kept in clean and sanitary
condition.
      6.   SUPPLIED FACILITIES
      Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is required
under this ordinance shall be constructed or installed so that it will function
safely and effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory condition.
      7.   DRAINAGE
      Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain thorough drainage
and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
      8.   NOXIOUS WEEDS
      Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be kept free of species
of weeds and plant growth which are noxious or detrimental to health.
      9.   EGRESS
      Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of egress as
required by the State Residential Building Code.
   I.   MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS
      1.   SCREENS
      In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitoes, flies and
other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor
space shall be equipped with screens and a self-closing device. Every window or
other device with openings to outdoor space, used or intended to be used for
ventilation shall likewise be equipped with screens.
      2.   RODENT CONTROL
      Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide entry
for rodents, shall be equipped with screens or other such approved device as
will effectively prevent their entrance. This subsection does not apply to pet
doors.
      3.   INFESTATION
      Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit shall be
responsible for such extermination when ever his dwelling is the only one
infested. Whenever infestation is caused by the failure of the owner to
maintain the dwelling in a rodent proof or reasonably insect proof condition
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation
exists in two or more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or
public parts of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
      4.   RUBBISH STORAGE AND DISPOSAL
      Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be supplied with approved
containers and covers for storage of rubbish as required by the Wallace Town
Ordinance, and the owner, operator or the agent in control of such dwelling or
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
      5.   GARBAGE STORAGE AND DISPOSAL
      Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall be supplied with an approved
garbage disposal facility, which may be an adequate mechanical garbage disposal
unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each dwelling unit, or an approved outside
garbage can as required by the Town of Wallace ordinances.
   J.   MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS
   All of the provisions of this ordinance, and all of the minimum standards
and requirements of this ordinance, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and
to every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to
another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided
in the following paragraphs:
      1.   WATER CLOSET, HAND LAVATORY AND BATH FACILITIES
      At least one (1) water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good working
condition, shall be supplied for each four (4) rooms within a rooming house
wherever these facilities are shared. All such facilities shall be located
within the residence building served and shall be directly accessible from a
common hall or passageway and shall not be more than one (1) story removed from
any of the persons sharing such facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all times. Such required
facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
      2.   MINIMUM FLOOR AREA FOR SLEEPING PURPOSES
      Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one (1) occupant shall
contain at least seventy (70) square feet of floor area, and every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one (1) occupant shall contain at
least fifty (50) square feet of floor area for each occupant twelve (12) years
of age and over and at least thirty five (35) square feet of floor area for
each occupant under twelve (12) years of age.
      3.   SANITARY CONDITION
      The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the sanitary
maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings, and for the sanitary
maintenance of every other part of the rooming house. The operator shall be
further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where
the entire structure or building within which the rooming house is contained is
leased or occupied by the operator.
      4.   SANITARY FACILITIES
      Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
required by paragraph (1) of this section shall be located in the rooming house
and within a room or rooms which afford privacy, are separate from the
habitable rooms, are accessible from a common hall, and are accessible without
going outside the rooming house or through any other room therein.
   K.   RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS
      1.   PUBLIC AREAS
      Every owner of a dwelling containing more than two dwelling units shall
be responsible for maintaining a clean and sanitary condition in the shared
public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
      2.   CLEANLINESS
      Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean and
sanitary condition the part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and premises thereof
which they occupy and control.
      3.   RUBBISH AND GARBAGE
      Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of their
rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the
supplied storage facilities. In all cases, the owner shall be responsible for
the availability of rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
      4.   SUPPLIED PLUMBING FIXTURES
      Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all supplied plumbing
fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for
the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation of same.
      5.   CARE OF FACILITIES, EQUIPMENT, AND STRUCTURE
      No occupant shall willfully destroy, deface, or impair any of the
facilities or equipment, or any part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling
unit. (Note: The respective responsibilities of landlords and tenants under
rental agreements for dwelling units are further enumerated in State Law, G.S.
Chapter 42, Article 5.)
   L.   POWERS AND DUTIES OF PLANNING DIRECTOR
   The Planning Director is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this ordinance and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed. The Planning Director is authorized to exercise such powers as may
be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and
provisions of this Ordinance. The Planning Director shall have the following
powers and duties:
      1.   To investigate the dwelling conditions and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the planning jurisdiction of the Town of Wallace, in
order to determine which dwellings and dwelling units are unfit for human
habitation, and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this
Ordinance with respect to repair, closing, or demolition of such dwellings and
dwelling units;
      2.   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
      3.   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
Ordinance and an inventory if those dwellings that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness herein prescribed;
      4.   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence;
      5.   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, such entries shall be made in accordance with Section
8.2(M) INSPECTIONS, DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS of this Ordinance and State
law, and shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      6.   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and
employees as he deems necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes of this
Ordinance, and to delegate any of his functions and powers to such officers,
agents, and employees; and
      7.   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the
Town Council.
   M.   INSPECTIONS, DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS
      1.   For the purpose of making inspections, the Planning Director is
hereby authorized to enter examine, and survey at all reasonable times all
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units, and the premises
associated therewith. The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, or rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the
official free access to such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming
unit as it premises at all reasonable times for the purposes of such
inspection, examination, and survey.
      2.   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or
rooming unit shall give the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to
any part of such dwelling or dwelling unit and its premises at all reasonable
times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance or with any lawful
order issued pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance. (Note: When
permission to inspect a dwelling or its premises is denied, the Planning
Director must obtain a warrant to inspect. B.S. 15-27.2 provides for the
issuance of warrants for the conduct of inspections authorized by law. The NC
Court of Appeals, In Re Dwelling, 24 NC App. 17 (1974), has held that the
consent of the tenant occupant who was in actual possession and control of the
premises was sufficient to authorize an inspection without a warrant,
notwithstanding the fact that the owner has objected to the warrant less
search. When faced with a situation where permission to inspect is denied,
Planning Directors are advised to seek the advice of the city or town
attorney.)
   N.   PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT
      1.   PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION; NOTICE; HEARING
      Whenever a petition is filed with the Planning Director by a Public
Authority, any Public Safety Official, including but not limited to, Police,
Fire, or EMS, or by at least five (5) residents of the Town of Wallace charging
that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, or whenever
it appears to the Planning Director, upon inspection, that any dwelling,
dwelling house or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he shall, if his
preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause
to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in such dwelling or
dwelling unit a complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Planning Director at a place therein fixed, not
less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days after serving a complaint.
Notice of such hearing shall also be given to at least one of the persons
signing a petition relating to such dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may
attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The
rules of evidence prevailing in the courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Planning Director.
      2.   PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING
      After such notice and hearing, the Planning Director shall state in
writing his determination whether the dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or dilapidated. If
Planning Director determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of such
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter, or improve such
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this ordinance within a specified period of time, not to exceed
ninety (90) days. Such order may also direct and require the owner to vacate
and close such dwelling or dwelling unit until such repairs, alterations, and
improvements have been made. If the Planning Director determines that the
dwelling is dilapidated, he shall state in writing his finding of fact to
support such determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner either to repair,
alter or improve such dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this ordinance, or else to vacate and
remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time not to exceed
ninety (90) days.
      3.   FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER
         (a)   IN PERSONAM REMEDY. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Planning Director to
repair, alter, or improve or to vacate and close the same within the dwelling
unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Planning Director to repair,
alter or improve or to vacate and close and remove or demolish the same within
the time specified therein, the Planning Director shall submit to the Town
Council at its next regular meeting a resolution directing the Town Attorney to
petition the superior court for an order directing such owner to comply with
the order of the Planning Director, as authorized by G.S. 160D-1208(e).
         (b)   IN REM REMEDY. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated or
dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an order of the Planning
Director within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been
sought or has not been granted as provided in the preceding paragraph (1), the
Planning Director shall submit to the Town Council an ordinance ordering the
Planning Director to cause such dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired,
altered, improved, vacated, closed, removed or demolished, as provided in the
original order of the Planning Director, and pending removal or demolition, to
place a placard on such dwelling as provided by G.S. 160D-1203 and Section
8.2(P) of this ordinance.
      4.   APPEALS FROM ORDER OF PLANNING DIRECTOR.
      An appeal from any decision or order of the Planning Director may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the Planning Director
shall be taken within 10 days from the rendering of the decision or service of
the order, and days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order,
and shall be taken by filing with the Planning Director and with the Zoning
Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal which shall specify the ground upon
which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the
Planning Director shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made. When an
appeal is from a decision of the Planning Director refusing to allow the person
aggrieved thereby to do any act, his decision shall remain in force until
modified or reversed. When an appeal is from a decision of the Planning
Director requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have
the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless
the Planning Director certifies to the Board, facts stated in the certificate
(a copy of which shall be furnished to the appellant), a suspension of this
requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the
requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining order. Such
restraining order may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one
day's written notice to the Planning Director, by the Board, or by a court of
record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. 160D-1208(d) and
8.2(N)(5) of this Section.
      The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all appeals,
shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its decision within
a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. The
Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision or
order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in its opinion
ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all the powers of
the Planning Director, but the concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the Planning
Director. The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any case
where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of
the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
      Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings in
the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
      5.   PETITION TO SUPERIOR COURT BY OWNER.
      Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Planning Director or a
decision rendered by the Board shall have the right, within thirty (30) days
after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision, to petition the
superior court for a temporary injunction restraining the Planning Director
pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. 160D-1208(d).
      6.   PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS OF THIS ORDINANCE TO APPLY TO ABANDONED
STRUCTURES:
      The procedures and minimum standards for the regulation of dwellings and
dwelling units set out in section 9-26 through 9-48 of this article shall apply
to abandoned structures in the Town, except that abandoned structures are not
required to meet minimum standards that are uniquely applicable to occupied
dwellings and dwelling units, including without limitation those standards set
forth in Sections
8.2(C),
8.2(E),
8.2(F),
8.2(G),
8.2(I),
8.2(J), and
8.2(K).
   O.   METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS
   Complaints or orders issued by the Planning Director shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. If the
whereabouts of such persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by
the Planning Director in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Planning
Director shall make an affidavit to that effect, and the serving of such
complaint or order upon such person may be made by publishing the same at least
once no later than the time at which personal service would be required under
the provisions of this ordinance in a newspaper having general circulation in
the Town of Wallace. Where service is made by publication, a notice of the
pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected by the complaint or order.
   P.   IN REM ACTION BY PLANNING DIRECTOR; PLACARDING
   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an
order of the Planning Director issued pursuant to the provisions of this
ordinance, and upon adoption by the Board of an ordinance authorizing and
directing him to do so, as provided by G.S. 160D-1203(5) and Section
8.2(N) of this ordinance, the Planning Director shall proceed to cause such
dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with
the minimum standards of fitness established by this ordinance, or to be
vacated and closed and removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of
the Board, and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of such dwelling
or dwelling unit a placard with the following words: "this building is unfit
for human habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human
habitation is prohibited and unlawful".
   Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each such
ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds in the
county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. 160D-1203(5).
   Q.   COSTS, A LIEN ON PREMISES
   As provided in G.S. 160D-1203(7), the cost of any repairs, alterations, or
improvements, or of vacating and closing or removal or demolition, caused to be
made or done by the Planning Director pursuant to Section 16 of this ordinance
shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred.
Such lien shall be filed, have priority, and be collected in the same manner as
the lien for special assessments established by Article 10. Chapter 160A of the
General Statutes.
   R.   ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES
   Neither this ordinance nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the Town of Wallace to define and
declare nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise,
or to enforce this ordinance by criminal process as authorized by G.S. 14-4 and
Section
8.2(T) of this ordinance, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein
shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided
herein or in other ordinances of laws.
   S.   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS
   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the Planning
Director pursuant to Section
8.2(N) of this ordinance shall be heard and determined by the Board of
Adjustment. As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix the
times and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any
other rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge of
its duties. The Board shall perform the duties prescribed by Section
8.2(N)(4) and shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings. If the
Board of Adjustment consists of more than five members, the chairman shall
designate five members to hear appeals under this ordinance.
   T.   CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this ordinance is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the Town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the Town shall prevail except when in conflict with the Historical
Zoning Ordinance.
   U.   VIOLATIONS; PENALTY
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit
to fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same, or to vacate
and close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Planning Director
duly made and served as herein provided, within the time specified in such
order. Each day that any such failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with such
order continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to Section
8.2(N) of this ordinance, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after
the time prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or
its vacation and closing. Each day that such occupancy continues after such
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      3.   The violation of any provision of this ordinance shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. 14-4.
      4.   In addition to the penalty established by subsection (c) above, and
the remedies provided by other provision of this ordinance, this ordinance may
be enforces by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   V.   SEVERABILITY
   If any provision of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall
be deemed a separate, independent provision and such holding shall not affect
the validity of any other provision hereof, and to that end, the provisions of
this ordinance are hereby declared to be severable.
8.3   NON-RESIDENTIAL MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
   A.   CONDEMNATION OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES, GENERALLY
   The Planning Director shall declare unsafe any building which appears to be
especially dangerous to life because of its liability to fire or because of bad
condition of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe
wiring or heating system, inadequate means of egress, or other causes. In such
event, the Planning Director shall affix a notice of the dangerous character of
the structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building.
   B.   CONDEMNATION OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES
   The Planning Director, as necessary, may declare a nonresidential building
or structure within a community development target area to be unsafe if it
meets both of the following conditions:
      1.   It appears to be vacant or abandoned.
      2.   It appears to be in such a dilapidated condition as to cause or
contribute to blight, disease, vagrancy, fire or safety hazard, to be a danger
to children, or to tend to attract persons intent on criminal activities or
other activities which would constitute a public nuisance.
      If the Planning Director declares a nonresidential building or structure
to be unsafe, the Planning Director must affix a notice of the unsafe character
of the structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building.
For the purposes of this subsection, the term "community development target
area" means an area that has characteristics of a development zone under G.S. §
105-129.3A, a "nonresidential development area" under G.S. § 160A-503(10), or
an area with similar characteristics designated by Town Council as being in
special need of revitalization for the benefit and welfare of its citizens.
   C.   ACTION IN EVENT OF FAILURE TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION
   If the owner of a building or structure that has been condemned as unsafe
pursuant to this article shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Planning Director shall give him written notice, by certified or registered
mail to his last known address or by personal service, of the following:
      1.   That the building or structure is in a condition that appears to
meet one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   Constitutes a fire or safety hazard;
         (b)   Is dangerous to life, health, or other property;
         (c)   Is likely to cause or contribute to blight, disease, vagrancy,
or danger to children;
         (d)   Has a tendency to attract persons intent on criminal activities
or other activities which would constitute a public nuisance.
      2.   That a hearing will be held before the Planning Director at a
designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      3.   That following the hearing, the Planning Director may issue such
order to repair, close, vacate, or demolish the building or structure as
appears appropriate.
      If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot after due diligence be
discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and adequately served if a
copy thereof is posed on the outside of the building or structure at least ten
(10) days prior to the hearing and a notice of the hearing is published in a
newspaper having general circulation in the town at least once not later than
one (1) week prior to the hearing.
    D.   EQUITABLE ENFORCEMENT
      1.   In the case of a nonresidential building or structure declared
unsafe under this article, the town may, in lieu of seeking civil enforcement
under G.S. § 160D-1125, cause the building or structure to be removed or
demolished. The amounts incurred by the town in connection with the removal or
demolition shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected in
the same manner as liens for special assessments provided in Article 10 of
Chapter 160A, G.S. If the building or structure is removed or demolished by the
town, the town shall sell the usable materials of the building and any personal
property, fixtures, or appurtenances found in or attached to the building. The
town shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or
demolition. Any balance remaining from the sale shall be deposited with the
Clerk of Superior Court of Duplin County and shall be disbursed by the court to
the person found to be entitled thereto.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit the
power of the town to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or
abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
   E.   APPEALS
   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in Section 8.3(C),
the Planning Director finds that the building or structure meets one or more of
the conditions specified in Section
8.3(C)(1), he shall render an order in writing, directed to the owner of such
building or structure, requiring the owner to remedy the defective conditions
by repairing, closing, vacating, or demolishing the building or structure or
taking other necessary steps, within such period, not less than (sixty) 60
days, as the Planning Director may prescribe. Provided, however, nothing herein
shall preclude the County Building Inspector from requiring that corrective
action be taken in a lesser period of time upon finding that there is imminent
danger to life or other property.
   F.   APPLICABILITY AND COMPLIANCE
      1.   Every commercial building or structure and the premises on which it
is situated, used or intended to be used for commercial business occupancy
shall comply with the provisions of this ordinance, whether or not such
building shall have been constructed, altered, or repaired before or after the
enactment of this article, and irrespective of any permits or licenses which
shall have been issued for the occupancy of the building or for the installment
or repair of equipment or facilities prior to the effective date of this
article. This article establishes minimum standards for the initial and
continual occupancy and use of all such buildings, and does not replace or
modify standards otherwise established for the construction, repair,
alteration, or use of the building, equipment or facilities contained therein
except as provided herein. Where there is mixed occupancy, any commercial
business use therein shall be regulated by and subject to the provisions of
this article.
      2.   It shall be the duty of each and every owner, operator or other
party in interest of a commercial building or premises to which this article is
applicable to comply with the regulations and requirements set forth herein. No
license, permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless and until
all applicable sections of this article have been complied with. No land or
building or combination thereof, shall be used in a manner inconsistent with or
in conflict with the requirements of this article.
      3.   The provisions of this Code that apply to the exterior or exterior
components of a building shall be complied with whether the structure or
building is occupied or vacant. All unoccupied or vacant structures or
buildings shall be secured to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons or the
occurrence of conditions not permitted by law in accordance with the standards
set out herein.
   G.   MAINTENANCE STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES
   All commercial premises shall be maintained in a state of good repair that
prevents further decay from wind, rain and external weather and secures the
building from any unauthorized admittance from humans, animals or birds. All
commercial premises shall be free of nuisances and any hazards to the safety of
occupants, customers or other persons utilizing the premises or to pedestrians
and/or vehicles passing thereby. Without limitation of the foregoing
requirement, the existence of any of the following conditions shall be deemed
to be a violation of this section and must be corrected:
      1.   Interior walls or vertical studs, which seriously list, lean or
buckle, to such an extent as to render the building unsafe;
      2.   Supporting member or members which show 33 percent or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting members or enclosing or outside walls that
shows 50 percent or more damage or deterioration;
      3.   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to reasonably be safe for the
purpose used;
      4.   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe;
      5.   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair, which is
dangerous to the health, safety and welfare of the occupants or other people in
the town;
      6.   Inadequate facilities for egress to such an extent that there does
not exist at a minimum, sufficient operable doors that the building can be
entered safely and exited in the same manner in case of fire or panic;
      7.   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities;
      8.   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such an extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the town;
      9.   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this article which constitutes a health or a definite safety hazard. If the
electrical, heating or plumbing facilities are in such a condition that the
service to those facilities needs to be discontinued to protect the general
public, then the Planning Director shall be authorized to notify the
appropriate official to disconnect service and that the service shall not be
reconnected until the building has been re-inspected and cleared of all
violations. Permits may be required from the county building inspections
department. Temporary service connections may be permitted to allow for
construction and/or cleaning;
      10.   Any violation of the Town Fire Prevention Code, as specified by the
Town Fire Marshal, which constitutes a condition which is unsafe and especially
dangerous to life;
      11.   Buildings and environs shall be kept clear of accumulations of
garbage, trash, or rubbish, which creates health and sanitation problems. All
garbage and solid waste shall be in approved containers or stored in a safe and
sanitary way;
      12.   Flammable, combustibles, explosive or other dangerous or hazardous
materials shall be stored in a manner approved for such materials and
consistent with the Town Fire Prevention Code;
      13.   The building and environs surfaces shall be kept clear of cracked
or broken glass, loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or
broken plastic or other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions.
Exterior surfaces shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a
manner as to prevent deterioration and repaired or replaced with like or
similar material according to its original use;
      14.   The building and environs shall be kept free of objects and
elements protruding from building walls, roof and environs which are unsafe or
not properly secured or which can create a hazard such as abandoned electrical
boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets and other similar objects;
      15.   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes
shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and maintained
to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept structurally
sound, in good repair and free of defects;
      16.   Gutters and down-spouts shall be replaced or repaired as necessary
and shall be appropriately located so as not to cause a hazard to pedestrian,
vehicular traffic or property;
      17.   Attached and unattached accessory structures shall not cause a
safety hazard and shall be in good repair;
      18.   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding awnings,
marquees and their supporting members and other similar attachments and
structures shall be maintained in good repair and shall not cause a safety
hazard to the occupants, pedestrians or other residents of the town;
      19.   Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated, or damaged, and shall not have other cracks which might admit
rodents;
      20.   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used and shall not leak;
      21.   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged;
      22.   Interior steps, railings, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances, shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or
collapse;
      23.   All plumbing fixtures and pipes shall be properly installed and
maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks
and defects and be capable of performing the function for which such plumbing
fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe,
sanitary and functional condition;
      24.   All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be properly
installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner;
      25.   All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of proper size
and design and free from rotten wood, broken joints or broken or loose
mullions;
      26.   All windows shall be maintained free of broken or cracked glass
that could be in danger of falling or shattering.
   H.   INVESTIGATION
   Whenever it appears to the Planning Director that a nonresidential building
or structure has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of
its occupants or members of the general public are jeopardized for failure of
the property to meet the minimum standards established by Section 8.3(G), the
Planning Director shall undertake a preliminary investigation. If entry upon
the premises for purposes of investigation is necessary, such entry shall be
made pursuant to a duly issued administrative search warrant or with permission
of the owner, the owner's agent, a tenant, or other person legally in
possession of the premises.
   I.   COMPLAINT AND HEARING
      1.   If the preliminary investigation discloses evidence that a building
is in violation of the minimum standards, the Planning Director shall issue and
cause to be served upon the owner of such building a complaint stating the
charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Planning
Director at a place and time therein fixed, not less than ten (10) nor more
than thirty (30) days after the serving of said complaint. The owner shall have
the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Any
person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to
the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the Planning Director.
Following the hearing, the Planning Director shall dismiss the complaint if he
finds no violation; if he finds that violations of this article exist, he shall
order compliance setting forth a maximum of up to 180 days within which to
correct the violations. Such order shall contain an outline of remedial action
which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this article.
      2.   If the Planning Director determines that the repairs, alterations or
improvements necessary to bring the building into compliance with the
provisions of this article can be made at a cost of less than fifty (50)
percent of the present value of the building, he shall state in writing his
findings of fact in support of such determination, and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof, an order directing and requiring the owner to
repair, alter and improve such building to comply with the standards contained
herein.
      3.   If the Planning Director determines that the repairs, alterations or
improvements necessary to bring the building into compliance with the
provisions of the article cannot be made at a cost of more than fifty (50)
percent of the present value of the building, he shall state in writing his
findings of fact in support of such determination, and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to
either repair, alter and improve such building to comply with the standards
contained herein or to demolish the building.
   J.   SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS
      1.   Complaints and all orders issued by the Planning Director shall be
served by the Planning Director upon persons either personally or by registered
or certified mail. When service of a complaint or order is accomplished
personally or by registered or certified mail, such service is hereby deemed to
be complete on the day of delivery to or receipt by the person served. When
service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or
order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if
the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail
is not returned by the post office within ten days after mailing. If regular
mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected.
      2.   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Planning Director in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused
to accept service by registered or certified mail and the Planning Director
makes an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of such complaint or order
upon the owners or other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the town at least once no later than the time at which
personal service would be required under the provisions of this article. When
service is made by publication, a copy of the complaint or order shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or
order; in the case of the complaint, it must be posted at least ten (10) days
prior to the hearing.
   K.   FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDERS
      1.   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair the building or
structure, the Planning Director may:
         (a)   Cause such structure to be repaired, and pending such repairs,
may order the building to be vacated and closed;
         (b)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any structure so
closed, a placard entitled, "Notice of condemnation" with the following words:
         "Notice is hereby given that this building is unsafe and dangerous
condition; may constitute a fire hazard by reason of structural defects and
general state of decay, deterioration and disrepair; may be hazardous or
dangerous to children or members of the public generally, or may be dangerously
infested with vermin rodents or insects. Such building has been condemned under
the building laws of the State of North Carolina and the Town of Wallace."
      2.   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
building, the Planning Director may:
         (a)   Cause such structure to be removed or demolished;
         (b)   Cause to be posted, pending demolition, on the main entrance of
any structure so closed, a placard entitled, "Notice of condemnation" with the
following words:
         "Notice is hereby given that this building is unsafe and dangerous
condition; may constitute a fire hazard by reason of structural defects and
general state of decay, deterioration and disrepair; may be hazardous or
dangerous to children or members of the public generally, or may be dangerously
infested with vermin rodents or insects. Such building has been condemned under
the building laws of the State of North Carolina and the Town of Wallace."
      3.   The duties of the Planning Director set forth in subsections (a) and
(b) shall not be exercised until:
         (a)   The Town Attorney shall institute in the general court of
justice an appropriate action to seek an order of the court directing such
owner to comply with the order of the Planning Director; or
         (b)   The Planning Director shall request the Council to order him, by
an ordinance specifically describing the subject property, to do either of the
following:
            i.   To cause such building to be repaired, altered and improved to
comply with the standards established by this article; or
            ii.   To cause such building to be vacated, closed, and removed or
demolished. The council, in ordering one of the aforesaid alternatives, shall
order the specific action that will best effectuate the purposes of this
article. Once the ordinance is adopted by the council a true copy of such
ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the register of deeds of the
county and the registrar shall index the name of the property owner in the
"grantor index."
      4.   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations and improvements, or
vacating, closing and removal or demolition shall be a lien against the real
property upon which the cost was incurred. Such lien shall be filed, have the
same priority and be collected as the lien for special assessment provided in
Article 10, Chapter 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes. If the unsafe
building is removed or demolished by the Planning Director, he shall, if
possible, sell in any commercially reasonable manner the materials of the
unsafe building and shall credit the proceeds of the sale, if any, against the
cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining shall be deposited by
the Planning Director with the clerk of superior court for subsequent
disbursement by the court to the persons found by the court to be entitled
thereto.
      5.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any
way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and to cause their
removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise, nor shall enforcement
of one remedy provided herein prevent the enforcement of any other remedies
provided herein or otherwise.
      6.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any
way the power of the Building Inspector in the proper enforcement of the duties
of his office, as assigned, nor shall the enforcement of one remedy provided
herein prevent the enforcement of any other remedies provided herein or
otherwise.
   L.   APPEALS
      1.   An appeal from any decision or order of the Planning Director
pursuant to this article may be taken by any person aggrieved thereby. Any
appeal from the Planning Director shall be taken within ten (10) days from the
rendering of the decision, or if either the owner or his attorney was not
present when the decision was rendered, then within ten (10) days of service of
such order. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Planning Director and
with the Board of Adjustment (hereinafter called "the board") a notice of
appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the
filing of any notice of appeal, the Planning Director shall forthwith transmit
to the board all the papers constituting the record upon which the decision
appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the chief Planning
Director refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his
decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is
from a decision of the Planning Director requiring the person aggrieved to do
any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until
the hearing by the board, unless the Planning Director certifies to the board
after the notice of appeal is filed with him, that by reason of the facts
stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished to the
appellant), a suspension of his requirement would cause imminent peril to life
or property. In that case, the requirement shall not be suspended except by a
restraining order, which may be granted for due cause upon not less than one
day's written notice to the Planning Director by the board, or by a court of
record upon petition made pursuant to Section
8.3(L)(4) of this section. All regulations, fees and other rules of the board
shall apply to these appeals.
      2.   The board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. The board may reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify
the decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Planning Director, but the concurring vote of 4/5 of the
members of the board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or
order of the Planning Director. The board shall have power also in passing upon
appeals, in any case where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to
adapt the application of the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the
end that the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed, public safety and
welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
      3.   If the board determines that the building is a building of
historical value, the board may enter an order holding the matter in abeyance
provided that the owner repairs the building on a timely basis. Such repairs
shall commence within six (6) months of the board's order and shall be
completed within two (2) years of said date. All such repairs shall be
completed in such a way as to maintain the historic character of the building
and shall comply with the United States Secretary of Interior standards for the
treatment of historic rehabilitation. If the repairs are not commenced and
completed within the time periods set out in the order, the Planning Director
shall proceed to enforce his original order.
      4.   Every decision of the board shall be subject to review by the county
superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within
fifteen (15) days of the decision of the board, but not otherwise.
      5.   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Planning Director or
a decision rendered by the board shall have the right, within thirty (30) days
after the issuance of the order or rendering of a decision, to petition the
superior court for a temporary injunction, restraining the Planning Director
pending a final disposition of the cause.
   M.   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building to fail, neglect,
or refuse to repair, alter, and improve the same; or to fail to vacate, close,
and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Planning Director duly made
and served as herein provided, within the time specified in such order, and
each day that any such failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with such order
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. It shall be
unlawful for the owner of any building with respect to which an order has been
issued pursuant to this article to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same
after the time prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration and
improvement or its vacation, closing and removal or demolition, and each day
that such occupancy continues after such prescribed time shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
      2.   Any owner of a building who fails to comply with any order described
in subsection (a), or who allows occupancy of the building subject to such
order after the compliance period in the order has expired, shall be subject to
a civil penalty of $500.00 for each day that noncompliance continues following
the expiration of the compliance period specified in the order of compliance.
If a person fails to pay the civil penalty within ten (10) days of receipt of
the citation, the town may seek to collect it in a civil action in the nature
of a debt.
      3.   Each day that a violation continues after notification that such
violation exists shall constitute a separate and distinct offense for purposes
of the penalties and remedies set forth in this section.
      4.   This article may be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
      5.   This article may be enforced by any one, all, or any combination of
the remedies authorized in this section.
8.4   PREVENTION OF DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT
   A.   INTENT
   The purpose of this Ordinance is to permit the Town of Wallace, through its
Historic District Commission and its Planning Department, to protect the Town’s
historic architectural resources by intervening when a significant resource is
undergoing demolition by neglect.
   Demolition by neglect occurs when the condition of an improved property
located in the Historic District is deteriorating in such a way as to threaten
the structural integrity or the relevant, significant architectural detail of
the structure such that the structure or its character may be lost to current
and future generations.
   A significant resource, as the term is used in this Ordinance, is defined as
any property, structure or architectural resource designated as “contributing”
in the Wallace Historic District’s nomination to the National Register of
Historic Place.
   B.   STANDARDS
   The exterior features of the building or structure found to have
significance (the term is defined above) located within the Historic District
shall be preserved by the owner, or such other person as may have legal
possession, custody, and control thereof, against decay and deterioration and
kept free from structural defects. The owner, or other person having such legal
possession, custody, and control, shall upon written request by the Town,
stabilize or repair the exterior features of a significant building or
structure if they are found to be deteriorating, or if their condition is
contributing to deterioration of the property or the district. The following
conditions are examples of (by way of illustration, but not limitation) defects
which may constitute, or result in a finding of, demolition by neglect:
      1.   Deterioration of exterior walls, foundations, or other vertical
support which results in leaning, sagging, splitting, listing, or buckling;
      2.   Deterioration of flooring or floor supports, roofs, or other
horizontal members which results in leaning, sagging, splitting, listing, or
buckling;
      3.   Deterioration of external chimneys which results in leaning,
sagging, splitting, listing, or buckling of the chimney;
      4.   Deterioration or crumbling of exterior plasters or mortars where
there is evidence that such condition exposes structural elements to decay;
      5.   Ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs, and foundations,
including broken windows or doors or broken or malfunctioning gutters;
      6.   Defective protection or lack of weather protection for exterior wall
and roof coverings, including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of paint
or other protective covering;
      7.   Rotting, holes, and other forms of decay where there is evidence
that such condition has exposed structural elements;
      8.   Deterioration of exterior stairs, porches, handrails, window and
door frames, cornices, entablatures, wall facings, and architectural details
that causes delamination, instability, loss of shape and form, or crumbling;
      9.   Deterioration of contributing accessory structures; or
      10.   Overgrown plants/landscaping features which threaten the structural
integrity or relevant, significant architectural detail of a structure.
   C.   PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT
      1.   Any citizen who believes demolition by neglect is occurring with
respect to any particular property in the Historic District, may make a written
complaint to the Planning Department. The Planning Department may also initiate
this enforcement process by filing a written complaint. Such a complaint must
include a clear description of the property and the nature of the deterioration
claimed to constitute demolition by neglect.
      2.   Upon the receipt of a complaint, the Planning Director will conduct
a preliminary investigation and prepare a staff report concerning the property
which is the subject of the complaint. The Planning Director may inspect the
entire property as part of its investigation, and is not limited in its
investigation to the specific conditions identified in the original complaint.
The Planning Director, when conducting the preliminary investigation, may
consult with professionals including, but not limited to, architects, landscape
architects, engineers, building inspectors and historic preservationists,
during the investigation.
      3.   The Planning Director shall make a written report of its preliminary
inspection. If, upon investigation, the Planning Director determines that a
structure may be undergoing demolition by neglect, it will notify the property
owner in writing that a complaint and staff report concerning the property will
be brought before the Historic District Commission at a meeting held no fewer
than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days from the date of the
notice. If the preliminary investigation does not substantiate the complaint,
the complaint will be considered resolved and no further action will be taken.
      4.   The notice to the property owner shall include a copy of the
Planning Director report concerning the structure, a description of the
demolition by neglect review process, how the property owner can resolve the
issue immediately, and a list of financial resources which may be available to
assist the owner.
      5.   The Planning Director will forward the complaint and staff report to
the Historic District Commission to be considered at its next regularly
scheduled meeting within the time period described in Section
8.4(C)(3) above.
      6.   The Historic District Commission will review the complaint and staff
report at a regular meeting.
      7.   If the Historic District Commission finds that the structure may be
undergoing demolition by neglect, it shall file an order directing the Planning
Director conduct a hearing to determine whether the subject property is
undergoing demolition by neglect. The order shall describe the demolition by
neglect found during the Planning Director’s preliminary inspection of the full
property.
      8.   Whenever such an order is filed with the Planning Director, a copy
shall be mailed to the property owner or such other person as may have legal
possession, custody or control of the property. The Planning Director shall
also issue and cause to be delivered to the owner and/or such other person who
may have legal possession, custody, and control thereof, as the same may be
determined by reasonable diligence, a written Notice stating that the Historic
District Commission has reason to believe that the property is undergoing
demolition by neglect, identifying the specific condition(s) at the property
which have led to that determination, and advising that a hearing will be held
before the Planning Director at a place within the Town not less than thirty
(30) nor more than forty-five (45) days from the date of the Notice; that the
owner and/or parties in interest have the right to answer and to give testimony
at the hearing. The Historic District Commission shall also be given notice of
the hearing. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall
not be controlling in hearings before the Planning Director. The purpose of the
hearing is to receive evidence concerning the preliminary finding of demolition
by neglect and to ascertain whether the owner and/or other parties in interest
wish to file a claim of economic hardship with the Historic District
Commission.
      9.    If after such hearing, the Planning Director determines that the
structure is undergoing demolition by neglect because it is affected by one (1)
or more of the conditions set out in Section
8.4(B), Standards, the Planning Director shall state in writing the findings of
fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be delivered
to the owner and/or responsible persons (Section
9.3, Responsible Persons) an Order to Repair. The Order to Repair shall
describe those elements of the structure that are deteriorating, contributing
to deterioration, or deteriorated and which serve as the basis of the
determination. The Owner and/or other responsible person shall have ten (10)
business days from the date of the Planning Director’s written Order to Repair
within which to file with the Historic District Commission a written petition
for a claim of undue economic hardship. In the event that the owner and/or
responsible person wishes to Petition for a claim of undue economic hardship,
the Planning Director’s Order to Repair shall be stayed until after the
Historic District Commission’s determination in accordance with the procedures
of this code, except as provided in the Section 
8.4(I), Other Town Powers.
      10.    The commencement and prosecution of work pursuant to the Order of
Repair shall stay further enforcement activity under this Section
8.4(C), Procedure for Enforcement.
   D.   EVIDENCE OF UNDUE ECONOMIC HARDSHIP
   The Owner or responsible person claiming undue economic hardship bears the
burden of presenting sufficient evidence to allow the Historic District
Commission to determine that undue economic hardship exists. Such evidence
shall include at least the following:
      1.   FOR ALL PROPERTIES:
         (a)   Nature of property ownership (individual, business, or
nonprofit) or other legal possession, custody, or control;
         (b)   A description of the structures involved;
         (c)   Petitioner’s financial resources;
         (d)    Cost of required repairs or other corrective measures;
         (e)    Assessed value of the land and improvements;
         (f)    Real estate taxes for the previous two (2) years;
         (g)    Amount paid for the property;
         (h)    Date of purchase;
         (i)    Party from whom purchased, including a description of the
relationship between the owner and the person from whom the property was
purchased, or other means of acquisition of title, such as by gift or
inheritance;
         (j)    Annual debt service, if any, for previous two (2) years;
         (k)    Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked, and
offers received, if any; and
         (l)    Any potential grants or funding sources available to help
improve the property.
      2.   FOR INCOME-PRODUCING PROPERTIES:
         (a)   If the property is income-producing, the annual gross income
from the property for the previous two (2) years;
         (b)    Itemized operating and maintenance expenses for the previous
two (2) years, including proof that adequate and competent management
procedures were followed; and
         (c)    Annual cash flow, if any, for the previous two (2) years.
   E.   METHODS OF SERVICE
   Notices or orders issued pursuant to Section
8.4(C), Procedure for Enforcement, shall be transmitted by first class mail to
the owner of the property as listed in the Duplin County Tax office and to the
occupant of the property at the property’s mailing address. All notices and
orders shall be presumed to be received by the addresses five (5) days from the
date of mailing.
   F.   SAFEGUARDS FROM UNDUE ECONOMIC HARDSHIP
   Undue economic hardship is defined as the property owner’s financial
inability to make the repairs specified in the Order to Repair pursuant to
Section
8.4(C)(9). A claim of undue economic hardship must be made, in writing, by
filing a request for such a determination with the Planning Department within
the time period specified for in Section
8.4(C)(9). The determination of undue economic hardship will be made by the
Historic District Commission on a case by case basis.
   When a claim of undue economic hardship is made, the Planning Director shall
notify the Commission within five (5) business days following the Planning
Department’s receipt of the written request for a determination of undue
hardship. The Commission shall schedule a hearing at its next available
meeting.
   The property owner and/or the responsible person shall present the
information provided by Section
8.4(D)(1), For All Properties, and, where appropriate,
8.4(D)(1), For Income Producing Properties, to the Historic District Commission
at least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing. The Commission may
require that an owner and/or parties in interest furnish such additional
information as the Commission may reasonably conclude is relevant to its
determination of undue economic hardship, and may, in its sole discretion, hold
the hearing open or close the hearing and allow the owner or party in interest
additional time to furnish the requested additional information. The Commission
may direct the Planning Director to furnish additional information, as the
Commission believes is relevant. The Commission shall also state which form of
financial proof it deems relevant and necessary to a particular case.
   In the event that any of the required information is not reasonably
available to the owner and/or parties in interest and cannot be obtained by the
owner, the owner shall describe the reasons why such information cannot be
obtained.
   G.   COMMISSION’S DECISION ON CLAIM OF UNDUE HARDSHIP
      1.   Within sixty (60) days following the Commission’s hearing on the
claim of undue economic hardship, the Commission shall make a determination
whether undue economic hardship exists, and shall enter the reasons for such
determination into the record. In the event of a finding of no undue economic
hardship, the Commission shall report such finding to the Planning Director,
and the Planning Director shall cause to be issued an Order to Repair the
property within a specified time.
      2.   In the event of a determination that undue economic hardship exists,
the finding shall be accompanied by recommended options that may be available
to the property owner to relieve the economic hardship. This plan may include,
but is not limited to, property tax relief as may be allowed under North
Carolina law, loans or grants from the Town, the County, or other public,
private, or nonprofit sources, acquisition by purchase or eminent domain,
building code modifications, changes in applicable zoning regulations, or
relaxation of the provisions of this article sufficient to mitigate the undue
economic hardship. The Commission shall report such finding and plan to the
Planning Director. The Planning Director shall cause to be issued an Order to
Repair the property within a specified time.
   H.   APPEALS
   Determinations made by the Planning Director pursuant to Section 8.4(C),
Procedure for Enforcement, or by the Commission pursuant to Section
8.4(C), Procedure for Enforcement or Section
8.4(G), Commission’s Decision on Claim of Undue Hardship, may be appealed to
the Board of Adjustment. To perfect such an appeal, a written application must
be filed by an aggrieved party with the Board of Adjustment within thirty (30)
calendar days of the date the determination was mailed to the property owner.
Appeals shall be in the nature of certiorari (review of a quasi-judicial
decision) such that the Board of Adjustment may review the record of the
proceedings before the Planning Director or the Commission (as the case may be)
to ensure that all procedures required by this Ordinance have been followed,
and to ensure that the decision appealed from is supported by competent
evidence in the record. However, the Board of Adjustment may not substitute its
judgment for that of the Planning Director or the Historic District Commission
unless it concludes that either (i) there has been an error of law or
procedural error which has resulted in prejudice to the appellant or (ii) there
is not substantial, competent evidence in the record to support the decision.
   I.   OTHER TOWN POWERS
   Nothing contained within this Article shall diminish the Town’s power to
declare an unsafe building or a violation of the minimum housing code.
   J.   PENALTIES AND REMEDIES
   Enforcement of this article may be by any one (1) or more of the following
methods, and the institution of any action under any of these methods shall not
relieve any party from any other civil or criminal proceeding prescribed for
violations and prohibitions.
      1.   EQUITABLE REMEDY
      The Town may apply for any appropriate equitable remedy to enforce the
provisions of this article.
      2.   ORDER OF ABATEMENT
      The Town may apply for and the court may enter an order of abatement. An
order of abatement may direct that improvements or repairs be made, or that any
other action be taken that is necessary to bring the property into compliance
with this article. Whenever the party is cited for contempt by the court and
the Town executed the order of abatement, the Town shall have a lien, in the
nature of a mechanic's and material man's, on the property for the cost of
executing the order of abatement.
      3.   CIVIL PENALTY
      No civil penalty shall be levied unless and until the Planning Department
transmits a notice thereof to the property owner by first class mail. The
notice shall also set forth the time period, not less than ten (10) days,
within which corrective measures must be commenced and shall establish a
deadline for completion of the work. The notice shall state that failure to
either (i) commence the work or (ii) complete the work, within the specified
time period will result in the assessment of civil penalties and other
enforcement action the civil penalty shall be assessed in the amount of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per day of continuing violation.
Chapter 9 – Enforcement
Table of Contents
   
9.1   Purpose
   
9.2   Applicability
   
9.3   Enforcement Officer
   
9.4   Violations
   
9.5   Responsible Persons
   
9.6   Enforcement Generally
   
9.7   Remedies and Penalties
9.1   PURPOSE
   This article establishes procedures through which the Town seeks to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance. It also sets forth the
remedies and penalties for violations of this Ordinance. The provisions of this
article are intended to encourage the voluntary correction of violations, where
possible.
9.2   APPLICABILITY
   This Ordinance shall apply to all property within the Town of Wallace and
its area of jurisdiction. Unless otherwise specified, the Planning Director
shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions of the
Ordinance within this area.
9.3   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
   A.   ESTABLISHMENT OF DELEGATED AUTHORITY
   The Planning Director may designate one or more persons to assist in the
administration and enforcement this ordinance. Orders issued by the Planning
Director’s designee shall have the effect as if issued by the Planning
Director. The Planning Director, or designee, is authorized to enter any
premises within the jurisdiction of the Town at all reasonable hours for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials; provided, however, that the appropriate consent has been given for
inspection of areas not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection
warrant has been secured.
   B.    GENERAL DUTIES
   In addition to the duties of the Planning Director as identified in Section
2.7(A), the Planning Director shall:
      1.   Establish and publish application procedures for permits, appeals,
and actions pursuant to this ordinance and forms implementing the same;
      2.   Issue permits and certificates pursuant to this ordinance;
      3.   Review and approve all development plans and permits to assure that
the permit requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied;
      4.   Interpret the applicability of the provisions of this ordinance in
matters where the text does not clearly provide guidance;
      5.   Maintain all records pertaining to the provisions of this ordinance
in his/her office(s) and make said records open for public inspection;
      6.   Periodically inspect properties and activities for which permits
have been issued to determine whether the use(s) is being conducted in
accordance with the provisions of this ordinance;
      7.   Cause to be investigated violations of this ordinance;
      8.   Enforce the provisions of this ordinance;
      9.   Issue notice of corrective action(s) when required;
      10.   Use the remedies provided in this ordinance to gain compliance;
      11.   Be authorized to gather evidence in support of said activities;
      12.   Receive appeals and forward cases to the appropriate body; and
      13.   Perform other duties as may be assigned by the Town Manager and/or
Town Council.
9.4   VIOLATIONS
   Any of the following shall be a violation of this ordinance and shall be
subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this article and
by state law.
   A.   DEVELOPMENT WITHOUT PERMIT
   To engage in any development, use, construction, remodeling, or other
activity of any nature upon the land or improvements thereon subject to the
jurisdiction of this ordinance without all required permits, certificates, or
other forms of authorization as set forth in this ordinance.
   B.   DEVELOPMENT INCONSISTENT WITH PERMIT
   To engage in any development, use, construction, remodeling, or other
activity of any nature in any way inconsistent with any approved plan, permit,
certificate, or other form of authorization granted for such activity.
   C.   VIOLATION BY ACT OR OMISSION
   To violate, by act or omission, any term, variance or waiver, condition, or
qualification placed by the Town Council or its agent boards upon any required
permit, certificate, or other form of authorization for the use, development,
or other activity upon land or improvements thereon.
   D.    USE IN VIOLATION
   To erect, construct, reconstruct, alter, repair, convert, maintain, or use
any building or structure or to use any land in violation or contravention of
this ordinance, or any other regulation made under the authority conferred
thereby.
   E.   SUBDIVIDE IN VIOLATION
   To subdivide land in violation of this ordinance or transfer or sell land by
reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat or map showing a
subdivision of the land before the plat or map has been properly approved under
this ordinance and recorded in the office of the Duplin County Register of
Deeds Office. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer
or other document used in the process of selling or transferring land does not
exempt the transaction from violation of this ordinance.
   F.    CONTINUING VIOLATIONS
   Each day's violation of any provision of this ordinance is a separate and
distinct offense.
9.5   RESPONSIBLE PERSONS
   The owner, tenant, or occupant of any land or structure, or part thereof,
and any architect, engineer, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who
participates in, assists, directs, creates, or maintains any situation that is
contrary to the requirements of this Ordinance may be held responsible for the
violation and be subject to the penalties provided herein.
9.6   ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY
   A.   NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS
   Upon the Planning Director's determination that any provision of this
Ordinance has been violated, a written notice shall be issued indicating the
nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. The
notice of violation shall be delivered to the holder of the development
approval and to the landowner of the property involved, if the landowner is not
the holder of the development approval, by personal delivery, electronic
delivery, or first-class mail and may be provided by similar means to the
occupant of the property or the person undertaking the work or activity. The
notice of violation may be posted on the property. The person providing the
notice of violation shall certify to the Town Clerk that the notice was
provided, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of
fraud. Except as provided by G.S. 160D-1123 or G.S. 160D-1206 or otherwise
provided by law, a notice of violation may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment pursuant to G.S. 160D-405. Additional written notices may be sent at
the Planning Director's discretion.
   The final written notice, delivered by certified mail, which may also be the
initial notice, shall state the action the Planning Director intends to take if
the violation is not corrected, and shall advise that the Planning Director's
order may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment within thirty (30) days of
final written notice.
   Once the final written notice is delivered, the penalties covered in Section
9.5, REMEDIES AND PENALTIES, shall apply.
   Suspected violations and complaints can be reported to the Planning Director
by phone or in writing. Complainants who provide contact information will be
apprised of the outcome of the investigation whereas anonymous complainants
will not.
9.7   REMEDIES AND PENALTIES
   A.   STOP WORK ORDER
   Whenever a building, sign, or structure, or part thereof is being
constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this
ordinance, the Planning Director may order the work to be immediately stopped.
The stop work order shall be in writing and directed to the owner, occupant, or
person doing the work. The stop work order shall state the specific work to be
stopped, the specific reasons for the stoppage, and the conditions under which
the work may be resumed. Such action shall be in accordance with N.C.G.S. 160D-
404(b), as applicable, or the NC Building Code.
   B.   DENIAL OF PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE
   The Planning Director may withhold or deny any permit, certificate,
occupancy permit or other form of authorization on any land, building, sign,
structure, or use in which there is an uncorrected violation of a provision of
this ordinance or of a condition or qualification of a permit, certificate, or
other authorization previously granted.
   C.   CONDITIONAL PERMIT OR TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE
   The Planning Director may condition the authorization of any permit or
certificate upon the correction of the deficiency, payment of civil penalties
within a specified time, or the posting of a compliance security approved by
appropriate governmental authority.
   D.   REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The Planning Director, or appropriate issuing authority, may revoke and
require the return of a permit by notifying the permit holder in writing
stating the reason for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any
substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or specifications;
refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state or local laws, or
for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked. Permit revocation shall follow the same development review and
approval process required for issuance of the initial approval, including any
required notice or hearing, in the review and approval of any revocation of
that approval.
   E.   CRIMINAL PENALTIES
   Pursuant to N. C. Gen. Stat., Section 14-4, any person, firm, or corporation
convicted of violating the provisions of this Ordinance shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500).
   F.   CIVIL PENALTIES
      1.   Unless otherwise stated in a chapter or section, any act
constituting a violation of this Ordinance shall also subject the offender to a
civil penalty of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), if the offender fails promptly
to correct such violation after
         (a)   receiving a final written notice of violation which he does not
appeal to the Board of Adjustment within the specified period, or
         (b)    denial of his appeal from a final written notice of violation
by the Board of Adjustment.
      2.   Each day that any violation continues beyond
         (a)   thirty (30) days after receiving final written notice of a
violation when no appeal is taken, or
         (b)   ten (10) days after the Board of Adjustment has denied an appeal
shall constitute a separate violation and a separate offense for purposes of
the penalties and remedies specified herein.
      3.   It shall be presumed that all notices of violation are received five
(5) days after the date such notices are mailed to the responsible person
(Section
9.3, Responsible Persons).
      4.   If the offender fails to pay the penalty within thirty (30) days of
receiving final written notice of a violation when no appeal was taken, or
within ten (10) days after the Board of Adjustment has denied an appeal, the
penalty may be recovered by the Town in a civil action in the nature of the
debt. Provided, however, if the civil penalty is not paid within the time
prescribed, the Planning Director may have a criminal summons or warrant issued
against the violator. Upon conviction, the violator shall be subject to any
criminal penalty the court may impose pursuant to N.C.G.S. 14-4.
   G.   ADDITIONAL PENALTIES
   In addition to the penalties and remedies above, the Planning Director shall
pursuant to authorization by the Town Council, institute any appropriate action
or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate a violation of the
Ordinance or to prevent use or occupancy of the building, structure or land so
long as said violation continues.
   H.   CUMULATIVE VIOLATIONS
   All such remedies provided herein shall be cumulative. To the extent that
North Carolina law may limit the availability of a particular remedy set forth
herein for a certain violation or a part thereof, such remedy shall remain
available for other violations or other parts of the same violation.
   I.   INJUNCTION
   Any violation of this article or of any condition, order, requirement or
remedy adopted pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected, abated, mandated
or enjoined by other appropriate proceeding pursuant to state law.
   J.   JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT
   When any person is in violation of the provisions of this ordinance, the
town through the Town Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice for
the issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent injunction
which restrains or compels the activities in question.
Chapter 10 – Definitions
Table of Contents
   
10.1   Rules of Measurement, Computations and Exceptions
   
10-1   Figure: Lot Measurements
   
10-2   Figure: Setbacks
   
10-3   Figure: Height Measurements
   
10.2   Definitions
10.1   RULES OF MEASUREMENT, COMPUTATIONS, AND EXCEPTIONS
   A.   PURPOSE
   The purpose of this section is to clarify the general rules of measurement
and exemptions that apply to all principal and accessory uses allowed in this
Ordinance. This Ordinance may establish other standards for specific
circumstances or situations, which specific standards supersede these general
rules.
   B.   DISTANCE MEASUREMENTS, GENERALLY
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, distances between points specified in
this Ordinance are to be measured as the length of an imaginary straight line
joining those points. Unless otherwise expressly stated, measurements
determining the spacing between uses are to be taken from property line to
nearest property line as a straight line measurement.
   C.   LOT MEASUREMENTS
      1.   LOT AREA
      The total horizontal area within the boundary lines of a lot exclusive of
street or highway rights-of-way and easements for access to other property.
Utility and similar easements are included within a lot area.
      2.   LOT WIDTH
      Lot width is the distance between the side lot lines measured along the
front building setback line. In cases where a structure is “condominiumized,”
or the interior floor area of a structure is owned by different owners, the
zoning district lot width requirements shall apply only to the parent tract or
development site, not the individual ownership units.
      3.   LOT DEPTH
      The shortest perpendicular distance from the front lot line to the rear
lot line.
      4.   LOT WIDTH AND DEPTH FOR CUL-DE-SAC LOTS
      The permit issuing authority may allow the creation of new residential
lots that do not meet the minimum lot width requirement at the front setback
line if the sole reason for not meeting the minimum width is due to the reduced
lot frontage on the public or private road created by the end of a cul-de-sac,
provided the required lot width is met within 75’ measured from the edge of the
right of way. The permit issuing authority may also allow construction in front
of the lot width line, so long as the front setback is not less than the
district minimum when measured from the edge of the right of way.
Figure 10-1: LOT MEASUREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-314.jpg]
 
   D.   GROSS RESIDENTIAL DENSITY MEASUREMENT
      1.   Gross residential density (the number of dwelling units per gross
acre of land) shall be determined by dividing the total area of land within the
boundaries of the parcel, including areas in public streets, rights-of-way and
areas reserved as open space, by the minimum lot area for the district in which
the parcel is located.
      2.   For sites being developed as attached dwellings, in cases where a
site’s acreage allows a gross density that exceeds a whole number by 0.51 or
more, the total density may be rounded up to the next whole number, thus
allowing an additional dwelling unit to be located on a site.
   E.   SETBACKS
   Setbacks are defined for each zoning district in Section
6.3, Dimensional Requirements. All structures and buildings must meet the
setback requirements stated, unless the permit issuing authority modifies such
setback pursuant to authority granted by this Ordinance, or dimensional
variance is granted by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section
3.9.
      1.   Setback Measurements
      A setback from a public street shall be measured from the street right-
of-way line if such line is readily determinable in the field or by reference
to a recorded map, set irons, or other means.
      A setback from a property line shall be measured as the shortest
perpendicular distance from the property line to the structure.
      2.   Permissible Encroachment into Required Setbacks
         (a)   One and two family driveways, walkways, fences, retaining or
decorative walls, ornaments, furniture, and landscape plantings may be
permitted in any setback.
         (b)   Patios may encroach into required setbacks, provided that the
minimum patio setback is ten feet from a rear or side property line and
provided that the patio surface is not more than 6 inches above the adjacent
grade. Covered patios or patios with shade structures must observe the setback
established for the district as set forth in Section
6.3, Dimensional Requirements.
         (c)   Accessory buildings may encroach into a side yard or rear yard
setback not adjacent to a street right-of-way to within 5 feet of the property
line, with the following limits:
            i.   For an accessory building with a highest point 12' or more
above the ground elevation, an additional setback of 2' for each 1' of
elevation above 12' is required until the standard setback is met.
            ii.   The setback being reduced is not part of a land use or stream
buffer required elsewhere in this Ordinance, nor a recorded easement for
utilities, drainage, or access.
         (d)   Parking lots and parking spaces are not allowed within setbacks.
         (e)   HVAC units and auxiliary power supplies (generators) are not
allowed within setbacks.
         (f)   For setback provisions that apply to nonconforming lots of
record, see Section
7.5, Nonconforming Lots of Record.
Figure 10-2: SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-316.jpg]
 
   F.   HEIGHT MEASUREMENT
      1.   The height of the side of a building or structure shall be the
vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of the finished grade along
that side of the building or structure to the highest point of that building or
structure, not including a maximum four (4) foot parapet wall encroachment.
      2.   Subject to the remaining provisions of this section, no part of a
building or structure in any district may exceed the height limit as indicated
in Section
6.3, Dimensional Requirements.
Figure 10-3: HEIGHT MEEASUREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6753a4ee02e27ff8c7709098b5d3f647cfa6f13c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-318.jpg]
 
   G.    HEIGHT LIMIT EXCEPTIONS
      1.   The following features are exempt from the height limitations set
forth in Section
6.3, Dimensional Requirements, so long as they do not exceed such height
limitations by more than 10 feet:
         (a)    Chimneys and elevator shafts;
         (b)    Antennas which are self-supported shafts of 6" in diameter or
less, flag poles and similar devices;
         (c)    Solar collectors;
         (d)    Church spires and their ornamentation so long as they do not
exceed such height by more than 10 feet if located within the Historic District
overlay zone; and so long as they do not exceed such height by more than 20
feet when located outside the Historic District.
      2.   The permit issuing authority may authorize a structure to exceed the
height limits set forth in Section
6.3, Dimensional Requirements so long as they do not exceed such height
limitations by more than ten (10) feet when it concludes the following:
         (a)    There are sound architectural, structural, historical, or other
reasons why the proposed structure should be allowed to exceed the normal
height limits;
         (b)    That portion of the proposed building or structure that will
exceed the height limit will be so located and/or buffered so that it will not
be visually obtrusive or offensive in any substantial way, OR the total height
of any addition to an existing building including any roof elements does not
exceed the maximum height including any roof elements of the existing building;
         (c)    The Historic District Commission has granted a Certificate of
Appropriateness for the project if it is located within the Historic District.
         (d)    Any adverse impact on neighboring properties is insignificant
or is substantially outweighed by the hardship suffered by the applicant if the
height exception is denied; and
         (e)    Adequate fire protection can be provided.
10.2   DEFINITIONS
Accessory Use: A use customarily associated with and clearly subordinate to a
principal use located on the same zoning lot and in the same zoning district as
the principal use. Accessory uses may be listed in Table
5.1.1, Table of Permitted Uses, but are not limited to uses provided in the
table.
Active Recreation: Any use or mix of uses including but not limited to the
following: athletic fields, buildings or structures for recreational
activities, concession, community garden, courses or courts, children’s play
area, dog play area, or a bike path.
Administrative Decision: Decisions made in the implementation, administration,
or enforcement of development regulations that involve the determination of
facts and the application of objective standards set forth in this UDO. These
are sometimes referred to as ministerial decisions or administrative
determinations.
Adult Day Care: A for profit or not for profit establishment which provides
supervision and activities for senior citizens who for reasons of age or
abilities should not be alone during daytime hours.
Adult Establishments: A facility wherein the activities described in N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 14- 202.10 are intended to occur.
Adverse Impact: A negative effect caused by or resulting from development.
These effects may include, but are not limited to the following: noise,
vibration, air pollution, liquid waste, glare, traffic congestion, and storm
water run-off.
Aggrieved Party: Person or entity whose interests or property rights are, or
may be, negatively impacted by a land use decision or activity
Agricultural Uses: The cultivation of crops or livestock, including (but not
limited to) orchards, vineyards, nurseries, or animal husbandry, along with any
buildings or structures necessary to conduct such activities.
Angled Parking: Vehicle parking arrangement where the chassis of the vehicle is
parked on a diagonal to the curb or flow of traffic.
Apartment: Type of attached dwelling unit
Appeal: Action taken by person claiming to be aggrieved by a final decision of
the Planning Director or of a Town board acting under authority granted by this
Ordinance.
Applicant (Stormwater): An owner or developer who has or intends to apply to
the Town of Wallace for the necessary permits to allow construction or
development of a site located within the planning or zoning jurisdiction of the
Town.
Application (Stormwater): Application form to be submitted by applicant
requesting a permit from the town to construct a project pursuant to this
article.
Approved Accounting Tool: The accounting tool for nutrient loading approved by
the EMC for the relevant geography and development type under review.
Arboretum: A place where trees, shrubs, or other woody plants are grown,
exhibited or labeled for scientific, educational or passive recreational
purposes, not including the harvest of plants or their produce.
Architectural Elevation: Building façade
Architectural Feature: Component or characteristic of a building façade
including but not limited to windows, doors, trim, cornice, etc.
Architectural Style: A recognized period or type of building construction
Artisan Studio: A facility where physical artists or craftsmen practice,
display, and sell their works to the general public
Authorized registered: A professional engineer, professional land surveyor,
landscape architect, professional (Stormwater) or other professional who is
registered, licensed, or certified pursuant to the North Carolina General
Statutes and who is authorized by law to prepare plans and specifications, and
to oversee the construction of a stormwater control device required under this
ordinance.
Automated Teller Machine (ATM): An unstaffed machine for accessing financial
accounts. These may be attached to a bank branch or independently located for
walk up or drive up customers.
Bank & Financial Institution: An establishment that provides retail banking
services, mortgage lending, or similar financial services to individuals and
businesses. Financial institutions include those establishments engaged in the
on- site circulation of cash money and checkcashing facilities, but shall not
include bail bond brokers. Financial institutions may also provide Automated
Teller Machines (ATM) services, located within a fully enclosed space or
building, or along an exterior building wall intended to serve walk-up
customers only. Financial institutions may include drive-up windows.
Bar: Premises used primarily for sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages by
the drink for on- site consumption, and where food may be available for
consumption on the premises as accessory to the principal use. (See also
definitions for Nightclub and Restaurants.)
Berm: A constructed landscape feature, usually an elongated mound of soil,
which creates a vertical barrier above the adjacent grade
Bona Fide Farm: see farm, bona fide
Bed and Breakfast Facility: A building or group of attached or detached
buildings containing, in combination, three (3) to twelve (12) lodging units
for daily or weekly occupancy, with or without board, and primarily for
occupancy by transients, as distinguished from rooming houses, in which
occupancy is primarily by residents rather than transients.
BMP: “Best Management Practice” – a structural or nonstructural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce point source inputs
to receiving waters for the purpose of achieving a given level of water quality
in stormwater runoff or to control the quantity thereof.
Botanical Garden: A garden having documented collections of living plants for
the purposes of scientific research, conservation, display, or education.
Buffer: A screening device used to moderate the adverse impact(s) of one land
use upon another. Buffers may include walls, hedges, landscaped areas, berms,
additional setbacks, or combinations of the above.
Building: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, animals, or tangible personal
property.
Building Height: The height of the side of a building or structure shall be the
vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of the finished grade along
the side of the building or structure to the highest point of that building or
structure.
Building Permit: Document issued by the Duplin County Building Inspector
authorizing the commencement of construction work, which includes permits
issued for any of the individual building trades, and details the conditions
under which work may proceed.
Building/Trade Contractor’s Office: An establishment that serves as the base of
operations for building contractors, plumbers, electricians, mechanical systems
technicians, and the like. This use also includes other service type businesses
dispatching to a work site including but not limited to exterminators, carpet
cleaners, or mobile vehicle service with no on- site garage. This use may
include office, onsite and off-site repair, and sale of related supplies and
equipment. Outside storage of supplies, equipment, or vehicles that meet the
definition of storage rather than parking is only permitted as a combination
use.
Building, Accessory: A subordinate structure detached from the principal
structure, the use of which is incidental to the permitted use of the principal
building.
Built-upon Area: For the purposes of stormwater regulation, that portion of a
development project that is covered by impervious or partially impervious
surface including, but not limited to, buildings; pavement and gravel areas
such as roads, parking lots, and paths; and recreation facilities such as
tennis courts. “Built-upon area” does not include a wooden slatted deck, the
water area of a swimming pool, or pervious or partially pervious paving
material to the extent that the paving material absorbs water or allows water
to infiltrate through the paving material.
Bus Passenger Shelter: A small structure to house bus passengers during
inclement weather.
Canopy Tree: Any deciduous tree with at least a 12" diameter measured at breast
height or non-deciduous tree with at least a 24” diameter measured at breast
height (4’ from the ground).
Cemetery: Uses intended for the interment of the dead and dedicated for
cemetery purposes and may include public or private cemeteries. This Use Type
may include a mausoleum or columbarium (a structure or vault lined with
recesses for cinerary urns), but does not include a crematory.
Certificate of Appropriateness: A permit reviewed and approved by the Historic
District Commission indicating compliance of a development application with the
standards of evaluation and design guidelines applicable within the Historic
District Overlay district.
Certificate of Completion (Stormwater): Signed, sealed and dated certificate
prepared by an authorized design professional which states that the
construction authorized by the permit-to-construct as issued by the town has
been completed.
Certificate of Occupancy (Stormwater): The certificate from the county
inspections department allowing the occupancy of a building.
Changeable Message Sign: A sign, the face of which contains an area where the
message can be changed regularly by adding, removing or adjusting individual
letters or numbers, or the use of LED fixtures. This definition does not apply
to signs displaying the prices for motor vehicle fuels or movie theatre
marquees.
Child Day Care: In accordance with state statutes, child day cares are an
arrangement or program where, at any one time, either three (3) or more
preschool-age children or nine (9) or more school age children receive child
care in a building other than a residence on a regular basis from persons other
than their guardians, full- time custodians, or persons related to them by
blood, marriage, or adoption. Such uses may also involve the provision of
educational services in preparation for elementary school. Institutions
providing elementary education are designated as an elementary school,
regardless of whether they also provide pre-school services.
Church, Place of Worship: A structure used in the practice or celebration of
beliefs in religious entities or deities. Normal accessory uses include, but
are not limited to, offices related to the operation of the organization,
meeting rooms, missionary operations, residential facilities for clergy, child
care, and related facilities so long as the principal use is the place of
worship.
Circulation Space: That portion of a parking lot or vehicle accommodation space
used for access to parking or loading spaces or other facilities on the lot.
Essentially, driveways and other maneuvering spaces (other than parking spaces)
comprise the circulation space.
Civil Penalty: A fee imposed on a property owner for the violation of this
ordinance.
Clearing (Stormwater): Any activity which removes the vegetative ground (root
mat) cover from a site.
Club or Lodge: An establishment operated by a corporation or association of
persons for social, recreational, fraternal, or charitable purposes, but which
is not operated for profit or to render a service which is customarily
conducted as a business. Clubs and lodges require private membership. (See also
definition for Community Center.)
Combination Use: Use consisting of a combination of two (2) or more principal
uses separately listed in the Table of Permitted Uses.
Community Center: A public or privately owned facility used as a place of
meeting, recreation, or social activity and not operated for profit. Community
centers do not require private membership or allow membership by the general
public. (See also definition for Club or Lodge.) Community centers typically do
not include lodging space for overnight accommodations.
Comprehensive Plan: A Comprehensive Plan is a policy document, or set of
documents, formally adopted by the Town Board, that provides guidance on the
Town’s vision for development of its zoning jurisdiction over a given period of
time. The primary emphasis of a Comprehensive Plan is to provide long- term
policy direction to property owners, residents, and decision makers on land use
and community issues, such as where future development and redevelopment should
occur, and at what scale and densities. Comprehensive Plans typically consist
of maps, vision statements, goals, policies, and action items to address a
number of issues related to growth and land use, sustainability, economic
vitality, transportation, neighborhoods and housing, public infrastructure and
services, parks and recreation, historic preservation, and community character
and aesthetics.
Conditional Use: A use of land which would not be appropriate generally
throughout the zoning district or without special study, but which, if
controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, or
other appropriate conditions, may be appropriate for a particular site.
Condominium Development: A project of two (2) or more units in one (1) or more
buildings designed and constructed for unit- ownership as permitted by the
North Carolina unit- ownership act.
Connection (Stormwater): Any ditch, pipe or other device for the diversion or
transmission of storm drainage which will in any way affect the operation or
maintenance of the receiving stormwater conveyance.
Construction: The process of building, erecting or making improvements on or to
land.
Contiguous Property: Parcel or lot which adjoins a subject property by either
sharing a property line, or would share a common property line but for the
existence of an intervening right-of- way.
Contractual Interest: Interest in real estate via a lease, contract to purchase
or other legal document or instrument.
Contributing Building: A building determined to contribute to the character of
the Historic Overlay District due to its age, architectural style, integrity,
or history as noted in the architectural inventory.
Critical Root Zone: The subsurface area under the dripline of a tree or shrub.
Cultural Resource: A structure, landscape, vista or other characteristic of
land or an improvement thereto, that provides information about the history or
development of the community.
Dbh: (Diameter at Breast Height) diameter of a tree measured four feet above
the ground.
De Minimus: Something or some act which, standing alone, is so insignificant
that it does not warrant consideration.
Debris: Construction debris, stumps, branches and limbs, and mine tailings.
This definition does not include household trash, garbage, industrial waste and
hazardous material.
Deciduous tree: Any tree which loses its leaves for a portion of the year.
Dedication: A conveyance by the owner of land, or an interest therein, for a
specified purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property is entailed,
dedication must be made by written instrument and is completed by written
acceptance. Dedication is typically made to a unit of government or to a
property owners association.
Deed of conveyance (Stormwater): The transfer of an easement interest or fee
simple title in a stormwater management facility or a stormwater control device
to the Town.
Destroyed: Damage or alternation to the original or most current existing form
of a sign, structure, site, or building caused by some force other than the
action or inaction of the owner, someone employed by the owner, or otherwise
with the owner’s consent. To be considered “destroyed” the damage must be so
severe that the cost to repair exceeds 50% of the value of the damaged
structure.
Detention (Stormwater): The collection and storage of stormwater runoff with
subsequent discharge to surface waters.
Detention Facility: A facility operated by or on behalf of the government to
provide group quarters and rehabilitation for individuals serving sentences
within the criminal justice system.
Determination: A written, final, and binding order, requirement, or
determination regarding an administrative decision of the UDO Administrator.
Such determinations shall be provided to interested parties in accordance with
NCGS 160D-403(b).
Developed land (Stormwater): Parcels altered from a natural state by
construction or installation of impervious surfaces. For new construction, the
town shall consider parcels developed upon the issuance of the permit-to-
construct pursuant to this and related activities, and the covering of land
surfaces with any structure or impermeable material. Mowing and bush hogging
operations, which does not disturb the root mat, shall not be considered land
disturbing activity.
Developer (Stormwater): A person engaged in land, site, or building
development. General contractors or subcontractors, or both, without a
proprietary interest in a project are not included within this definition.
Development: Any man-made change or improvement to real property, including but
not limited to the construction, erection, structural alternation, enlargement
or rehabilitation of buildings or structures, including farm building; mining;
dredging; filling; grading; paving; excavation or drilling operations; clearing
of vegetation; any division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels; and
any use or change in use of any structures or land. Development shall also
include any land disturbing activity on improved or unimproved real property
that changes the amount of impervious or partially impervious surfaces on a
parcel, or that otherwise decreases the natural infiltration of precipitation
into the soil.
Development Approval: An administrative or quasi-judicial approval made
pursuant to this UDO that is written and that is required prior to commencing
development or undertaking a specific activity, project, or development
proposal. Development approvals include, but are not limited to, zoning
permits, site plan approvals, special use permits, and variances. The term also
includes all other regulatory approvals required by regulations adopted
pursuant to this UDO, including plat approvals, permits issued, development
agreements entered into, and building permits issued. Unless provided otherwise
by law, all rights, privileges, benefits, burdens, and obligations created by
development approvals made pursuant to this UDO attach to and run with the
land. Town-issued development approval permits expire one (1) year after
issuance unless work authorized by the permit has substantially commenced.
Development Regulation: A unified development ordinance, zoning regulation,
subdivision regulation, floodplain or flood damage prevention regulation,
stormwater control regulation, wireless telecommunication facility regulation,
building code regulation, or any other regulation adopted pursuant to this UDO.
Direct Illumination: Lighting observed when the light source has an
unobstructed path to the receiving surface
Drainage nuisance (Stormwater): The unapproved obstructions of swales, ditches,
culverts, pipes or other stormwater conveyances.
Dripline (of a tree): The ground area under the canopy of branches, often drawn
as a circle within the tree trunk of the center and a radius equal to the
distance from the center to the farthest branch extent.
Drive-up Window: A window type feature at a facility (such as, but not limited
to, a bank, pharmacy or a fast food restaurant) designed to enable a person to
transact business while remaining in a motor vehicle.
Driveway: That portion of the vehicle accommodation space that consists of a
travel lane bounded on either side by an area that is not part of the vehicle
accommodation area.
Dry Cleaning or Laundry Plant: A facility where retail customers drop off or
pick up laundry or dry cleaning and where the cleaning processes take place on
site.
Dry Cleaning or Laundry Services: A personal service business maintained for
the drop off and pick up of clothes for off-site laundering or dry cleaning,
without the operation of any laundry or dry cleaning equipment on the premises.
Duplex: type of attached dwelling unit containing two units of roughly equal
size
Dwelling Unit: A room or group of rooms forming a single independent habitable
unit with facilities used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking,
and eating by one family; for owner occupancy or rental, lease or other
occupancy on a weekly or longer basis, and containing independent cooking,
sanitary, and sleeping facilities. Units otherwise meeting this definition but
occupied by transients on a rental or lease basis for periods of less than one
week shall be construed to be lodging units.
Dwelling, Accessory: A secondary dwelling unit established in conjunction with
and clearly subordinate to a principal dwelling unit, whether part of the same
structure as the principal dwelling unit, or as a detached, subordinate
structure on the same zoning lot. Efficiency apartments are one type of
accessory dwelling. (See also definition for efficiency apartment.)
Dwelling, Attached: Two-or more dwelling units that are joined together by a
common wall. Attached dwelling units include duplexes, townhomes, apartments,
condominiums, and other multi-family developments.
Dwelling, Mobile Home, Class A: A mobile home constructed after July 1, 1976
that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
   a)   The pitch of the mobile home’s roof has a minimum vertical rise of two
feet for each twelve (12) feet of vertical run. The length shall not exceed
four times the width of the home and the minimum width shall be sixteen (16)
feet.
   b)   The exterior materials are of wood, hardboard, or aluminum comparable
in composition, appearance, and durability to site- built houses in the
vicinity.
   c)   A continuous, permanent masonry foundation, unpierced except for
required ventilation and access, is installed under the mobile home
   d)   A deck containing stairs of at least thirty-six (36) feet is required;
and
   e)   The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and towing apparatus are to be
removed subsequent to final placement.
Dwelling, Mobile Home, Class B: A mobile home constructed after July 1, 1976
that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that satisfies the following criteria:
   a)   The pitch of the mobile home’s roof has a minimum vertical rise of two
feet for each twelve (12) feet of vertical run. The minimum width shall be
fourteen (14) feet.
   b)   The exterior materials are of wood, hardboard, or aluminum comparable
in composition, appearance, and durability to site- built houses in the
vicinity.
   c)   A continuous, permanent masonry foundation or vinyl underpinning,
unpierced except for required ventilation and access, is installed under the
mobile home
   d)   A deck containing stairs of at least thirty-six (36) feet is required;
and
   e)   The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and towing apparatus are to be
removed subsequent to final placement.
Dwelling, Mobile Home, Class C: All mobile homes other than Class A or Class B
mobile homes.
Dwelling, Single- Family (Detached): A residential building that contains one
(1) dwelling unit on a single lot and may also include one (1) efficiency
apartment.
Easement: A grant of rights by a property owner to another individual, group,
or governmental unit to make limited use of a portion of real property for a
specified purpose.
Efficiency Apartment: An efficiency apartment is a dwelling use accessory and
subordinate to a principal single- family dwelling, that is located within the
principal dwelling unit.
Electronic Gaming Operation: Any business enterprise, whether as a principal or
accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines, including but not
limited to computers and gaming terminals, to conduct games of chance,
including sweepstakes, and where cash, merchandise or other items of value are
redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether or not the value of such
distribution is determined by electronic games played or by predetermined odds.
Electronic gaming operations may include, but are not limited to, internet
cafes, internet sweepstakes, electronic gaming/machine operations, or
cybercafés that otherwise meet the preceding definition. This does not include
the North Carolina Education Lottery.
Electronic Message Display: A sign capable of displaying words, symbols,
figures or images that can be electronically or mechanically changed by remote
or automatic means.
Erosion (Stormwater): The process by which the ground surface is worn by the
action of wind, water, ice, or gravity.
Erosion and sediment control measures (Stormwater): A system of structural and
vegetative measures that minimize soil erosion and off site sedimentation. This
term, where appropriate, shall include stormwater management and control
measures.
Event Center: A building containing in some combination two or more of the
following: a bed and breakfast facility; a restaurant; a bar; a night club; or
a meeting facility. The facility may make some or all services available to the
general public in addition to guests.
Excavation: Addition, removal, or rearrangement of earth on a lot which cannot
reasonably be done with hand held tools.
Existing Development: For purposes of stormwater compliance, development not
otherwise exempted by this ordinance that meets one of the following criteria:
   a)   It either is built or has established a statutory or common-law vested
right as of the effective date of this ordinance; or
   b)   It occurs after the effective date of this ordinance, but does not
result in a net increase in built- upon area and does not decrease the
infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
Expansion of site (Stormwater): The addition of new buildings, structures,
parking lots, or any other new impervious surface to a site. Construction of
any new impervious surface on an area previously impervious which does not meet
the definition of redevelopment as defined in this section shall be considered
as expansion.
Extended Care Facility: A facility licensed by the appropriate state agency, as
a facility for fifteen (15) or more unrelated individuals (excluding
supervisory personnel) who are mentally or physically handicapped, aged, or
disabled and are undergoing rehabilitation or extended care. This includes, but
is not limited to, nursing homes, rest homes, hospices for the aged or
terminally ill, adult congregate, and assisted living facilities. Adult
congregate and assisted living are used with the definitions established by the
North Carolina Division of Facilities Management.
Extraction of Earth Products: The process of removing natural deposits of
minerals, ores, soils or other solid, liquid, or gaseous matter from their
original location. It does not include processing of such materials, beyond
incidental mechanical consolidation or sorting to facilitate transportation to
the site of use or location for further process. This does not include the
necessary removal of material in connection with the construction of a
building.
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction: The geographical area, determined by ordinance
and recorded in the Register of Deeds office, which is outside the city limits
of Wallace but subject to the requirements of this Ordinance. By state statute,
this area is generally 1 miles or less from the city limits at the time it is
enacted and is sometimes referred to as the extraterritorial mile or ETJ.
Facility (Stormwater): A stormwater management facility, and shall include all
land, materials, and appurtenances used in construction and operation of the
facility. Facilities include, but are not necessarily limited to, constructed
wetlands, infiltration systems, retention ponds, detention ponds, grassed
swales and ditches.
Family: Two or more persons related by blood, marriage, state-approved foster
home placement, court-approved adoption, or up to five unrelated persons,
constituting a single housekeeping unit.
Family Care Home: A facility licensed by the appropriate state agency as a
family care home for one (1) to six (6) unrelated individuals, together with
support and supervisory personnel. See also definitions in N.C. Gen. Stat. §
168-20.
Family Child Care Home: In accordance with state statutes, Family Child Care
Home is an arrangement located in a private residence where, at any one time,
more than two (2) but less than nine (9) children receive child care on a
regular basis from persons other than their guardians, full- time custodians,
or persons related to them by blood, marriage, or adoption.
Farm, Bona Fide: Land on which the raising of crops or livestock, including
orchards, vineyards, nurseries, or animal husbandry, are conducted, along with
any buildings or structures necessary to conduct such activities. When a
property that is located in the Town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction that is
used for bona fide farm purposes in accordance with G.S. 160D-903(a) and is
exempt from zoning regulation to the same extent bona fide farming activities
are exempt from county zoning pursuant to G.S. 160D-903.
Farmer’s Market: an open air market that may be comprised of temporary or
permanent structures for multiple vendors occupied at least one day per week on
a regular schedule for the sale of produce, farm products, or handcrafted items
on a lot owned by a unit of local government, a sponsoring bona fide farm, or
the nonprofit entity operating the market
Fill (Stormwater): Any act, or the conditions resulting there from, by which
soil, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any similar material is deposited, placed,
pushed, pulled or transported.
Flex Space: Building designed and marketed as suitable for offices but
including areas suitable to accommodate bulk storage, showroom (including
retail sales as an accessory, but not predominant use), manufacturing,
assembly, or similar operations. Generally flex space has storefront type
windows in the office area of the space.
Floodplain (Stormwater): Any area susceptible to being inundated by water from
any stream, creek, ditch, etc.
Freestanding Sign: A sign that is attached to, erected on, or supported by some
structure (such as a pole, mast, frame, or other structure) that is not itself
an integral part of or attached to a building or other structure whose
principal function is something other than the support of a sign. A sign that
stands without supporting elements, such as a "sandwich sign," is a
freestanding sign. If the message is removed from the structure that was
originally designed and used as a freestanding sign, this structure shall still
be considered a sign.
Funeral Home: An establishment that provides human funeral services, including
embalming and memorial services. Crematories are accessory uses to a funeral
home.
Gallery: A facility open to the public for the display and sale of physical art
(such as paintings, sculptures, pottery and jewelry).
Garbage (Stormwater): Any animal and vegetable refuse resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking of food, yard debris from yard maintenance, and
construction debris from construction activities.
Government Facilities & Office Buildings: An office or other facility occupied
by a government agency that provides administrative and/or direct services to
the public, such as, but not limited to, employment offices, public assistance
offices, motor vehicle licensing and registration services. Government
facilities that do not provide services directly to the public but serve as the
base of operations for government functions including but not limited motor
pools, fleet maintenance facilities, utility storage yards shall be treated and
classified as the most similar private sector use.
Grading: See “excavation”
Greenhouse/Nursery: The growing, storage, and sale of garden plants, shrubs,
trees, vines, groundcovers, and other related landscaping materials for retail
sale to members of the general public. Such uses may include greenhouses,
outdoor storage of goods, materials and equipment irrigation systems, and
caretaker’s dwellings.
Gross Floor Area: The total area of a building measured based on the exterior
dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or
storage.
Group Care Facility: A facility licensed by the appropriate state agency, as a
permanent or transitional residence for seven (7) to fifteen (15) unrelated
individuals (excluding supervisory personnel), who as a result of age, illness,
handicap or some specialized program, require personalized services or a
supervised living arrangement in order to assure their safety and comfort. This
category includes group homes for all ages, nursing/rest homes, halfway houses,
and foster homes.
Hazardous material (Stormwater): Any substance which, when discharged in any
quantity, may present an imminent and substantial danger to the public health
or welfare or to the environment.
Health Care Facility: An establishment engaged in furnishing medical, surgical
or other services to individuals, including the offices of physicians,
dentists, and other health practitioners, out- patient care facilities, and
miscellaneous types of medical services.
Health/Fitness Center: Establishment which offers classes &/or equipment for
physical fitness.
High density development (Stormwater): Development of a nature which results in
a concentration of use(s) within a given area, such as apartment, mobile home
parks, planned unit developments (PUDs), shopping centers (retail or wholesale
outlet stores included), shopping malls, schools, industrial parks, large
industrial plants, or any other type of development resulting in the creation
of impervious area exceeding 30% of the total land area.
High-Density Project: As defined under state stormwater management regulations,
a high-density project is any project that exceeds the low density threshold
for dwelling units per acre and built-upon area.
Home Occupation: An accessory commercial use of a residential property by a
resident thereof, which is clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the property as a residence. The residence must be the base of
operations for the business and the function of the business must take place at
the residence to require a permit.
Hospital: An institution providing 24 hour physical and mental health services
primarily for human in-patient medical or surgical care for the sick or
injured, including related facilities such as laboratories, out- patient
services, training facilities, central service facilities, and staff offices.
Hotel & Motel: A building or group of attached or detached buildings, in
combination, containing twelve (12) or more lodging units, or ten (10) or more
dwelling units, intended primarily for rental or lease to transients by the day
or week.
Illicit discharge (Stormwater): Any discharge to a municipal separate storm
sewer that is not composed entirely of stormwater except discharges pursuant to
a NPDES permit (other than the NPDES permit for discharges from the municipal
separate storm sewer) and discharges resulting from firefighting activities.
Impact Vibration: Mechanical oscillations about an equilibrium point caused by
the impact of one object upon another with force.
Impervious Surface: A ground covering that limits the absorption of stormwater
into the ground water system. Examples include buildings, asphalt, concrete,
gravel, and similar treatments
Industrial Use: Use permitted in the industrial districts which involves the
creation of consumer products from raw or prepared materials, or is otherwise
involved in converting raw materials to final products.
Infiltration (Stormwater): The recharge of stormwater runoff into the
subsurface soil.
Intermittent Stream: Any water feature shown as broken blue lines on the most
current USGS Quadrangle maps for Duplin County, or so designated by authorized
staff upon a field investigation.
Junkyard: An establishment where junk, waste, discarded, salvaged, or similar
materials from motor vehicles are brought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed,
disassembled, stored, or handled.
Kennels, Boarding: A facility or establishment which offers to the public the
service of boarding animals for a fee. Such facility or establishment may offer
grooming services for domesticated animals in addition to providing shelter,
food, and water.
Kiosk: A freestanding structure meant to display and convey information to
passers-by. The information in such structure shall not be comprehensible by
passing vehicular traffic. The structure shall provide little or no protection
from the elements to pedestrians unless co-located with a transit shelter.
Land Disturbing Activities: Activity that disturbs the pavement, building, or
topsoil or vegetative cover of a site. Also, any use of the land that results
in a change in the natural cover or topography that may cause or contribute to
sedimentation.
Land Use Plan: A set of documents and maps that categorize existing patterns of
land development and set guidelines for the desirable intensity, density,
quantity, and location of future development based on the goals and policies
set forth in the Comprehensive Plan.
Larger Common Plan of Development or Sale: Any area where multiple separate and
distinct construction or land- disturbing activities will occur under one plan.
A plan is any announcement or piece of documentation (including but not limited
to a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, loan
application, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design)
or physical demarcation (including but not limited to boundary signs, lot
stakes, or surveyor markings) indicating that construction activities may occur
on a specific plot.
Legal Nonconformity: A use or situation that does not satisfy the provisions of
this Ordinance, but which use or situation legally existed prior to the
adoption of this Ordinance.
Legislative Decision: The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation under
this UDO, which shall include any text or map amendment (rezoning). The term
also includes the decision to approve, amend, or rescind a development
agreement consistent with the provisions of NCGS.
Library: An establishment where books, periodicals, newspapers, sound
recordings, and picture recordings are available for members to borrow and
where other resources may be available for members to conduct on site research
(books, periodicals, computers, historical collections, and the like).
Light Industry: The manufacture, service, repair or testing of products every
aspect of which activity occurs within an enclosed building.
Lighting Contours: Graphic or pictorial representation of the light intensity
emanating from light fixtures.
Loading Area: That portion of vehicle accommodation area used to park vehicles
which are making pick-ups or deliveries of goods or materials to or from the
building to which that area is allocated.
Lodging Unit: A room or rooms connected together, constituting separate lodging
for one (1) family and which are physically separated from any other dwelling
or lodging units. Where two (2) or more rooms are connected by a doorway or
doorways, and are arranged, equipped and furnished in such a manner that they
might reasonably be rented, leased, or occupied, either individually or in
combination, each room shall be construed as a lodging unit.
Lot Area: The total horizontal area within the boundary lines of a lot
exclusive of street or highway rights-of- way and easements for access to other
property. Utility and similar easements are included within a lot area.
Lot Depth: The shortest perpendicular distance from the front lot line to the
rear lot line.
Lot, Double Frontage: A continuous (through) lot which is accessible from both
the streets upon which fronts on opposite sides.
Lot of Record: A lot created by deed or plat and recorded in the Duplin County
registry of Deeds prior to the existence of the establishment of a zoning
ordinance and/or subdivision regulations in Wallace’s zoning jurisdiction. (See
also definition for Zoning Lot.)
Lot Width: Lot width is the distance between the side lot lines measured along
the front building setback line. In cases where a structure is
“condominiumized,” or the interior floor area of a structure is owned by
different owners, the zoning district lot width requirements shall apply only
to the parent tract or development site, not the individual ownership units.
Lot, Non-Conforming: Legally created lot of record, existing at the time
regulations were passed requiring greater minimum width or area than provided
on such lot, or establishing other limitations which such lot does not meet.
Such lots may be considered substandard lots of record.
Lot, Non-Legal for Zoning Purposes: A lot which is neither a zoning lot nor a
non-conforming lot. No such lot shall be used or occupied, except as open
space, until it is made to conform to the requirements of the Ordinance and
other applicable regulations.
Lot, Zoning: A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat, or
as otherwise permitted by law, to be used, developed or built upon as a unit.
Zoning lots are designated on the Official Zoning Map for the Town of Wallace.
(See also definition for Lot of Record.)
Low-Density Project: As defined under state stormwater management regulations,
a low-density project is any project that has no more than two (2) dwelling
units per acre or twenty-four (24) percent built- upon area (BUA) for all
residential and non-residential development.
Mail Order House: Enterprise in which the principal activity involves
receiving, processing, packaging, and shipping orders for retail goods to
individuals or businesses.
Manufacturing Facility: A building or structure in which manufacturing,
processing, creating, renovating, painting, cleaning, and assembling of goods,
merchandise or equipment occurs, and which does not require an air quality
permit from the State of North Carolina or a Special Industrial Users Permit
from the Town Utilities Director.
Maximum Building Capacity: A value, determined by the State Building Code, of
the number of occupants that can safely be inside a building at one time.
Mechanical Equipment: Equipment, usually located outside a building, and
attached to the roof or to an outside wall, intended to facilitate the
provision of utilities or air handling to the structure. Examples include but
are not limited to electrical panels, generators, hot boxes, backflow
preventors, and HVAC equipment.
Meeting Facility: A building, part of a building, or series of building
available for rent for public and private meetings and events. This type of
facility may provide rooms of various sizes to accommodate one or more
functions at the same or different time, restrooms or changing rooms for guest
use, and/or a warming kitchen or similar food staging area. This use does not
include on-site food preparation, lodging, or any personal care services.
Merchant Organization: For the purposes of event signage in Section 6.19, an
association of merchants or organization of merchants may include any formal
group with bylaws and a membership roster that holds at least 1 meeting per
year to conduct the business of the association or organization.
Minor Work: Building modification or landscaping that takes place within the
Historic Overlay District, which due to its limited impact or temporary nature,
may be approved by the Planning Director.
Mobile Classroom: A structure consisting of one, two or three principal
components assembled in a factory and transportable on its own chassis
specifically designed and constructed to be used as a classroom or office space
as, opposed to a dwelling.
Mobile Home: See dwelling, mobile home.
Mobile Home Park: A lot in single ownership used or proposed to be used for the
long term placement of two (2) or more mobile homes for use as dwelling units.
Mobile Home Space: A parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one
(1) and only one (1) mobile home, the area of which is to be used exclusively
by the occupants of the mobile home.
Modular Home: A dwelling built according to the North Carolina Residential
Building Code having neither its own chassis nor wheels, consisting of one (1)
or more modules constructed off the building site and designed for
transportation to and erection on a permanent foundation at the building site.
Motor Vehicle Fuel Station: An establishment offering retail sale of vehicle
fuel or means of propulsion (including gas, diesel, natural gas).
Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Service: General repair, rebuilding, or
reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, or trailers, not including bodywork,
framework, welding, and major paint service. Accessory uses can include
carwashes, auto detailing, window tinting and related appearance services.
Motor Vehicle Repair: An establishment where automobile maintenance or service
is rendered, with the addition of body work, straightening of body parts,
painting, welding, temporary storage of motor vehicles not in operating
condition, major mechanical work, including engine overhaul and other major
work requiring overnight storage.
Motor Vehicle Sales/Rental: An establishment including any building or land
area for the display of motor vehicles, trucks, vans, tractor trailers, or
recreation vehicles for the purpose of sale or rental, and including any
warranty repair work and other repair service conducted as an accessory use.
(See also definition for Personal Vehicle Sales.)
Multi-tenant Development: A non-residential development in which there exists
two or more individual tenants or leaseholds, and/or separate activities and in
which there are appurtenant shared facilities (such as parking areas or
pedestrian mall areas).
Municipal separate storm sewer (Stormwater): A stormwater conveyance or system
of conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels or storm drains).
Museum: A building serving as a repository for a collection of natural,
scientific, historical, or literary curiosities or works of art, and arranged,
intended, and designed to be used by members of the public for viewing, with or
without an admission charge, and which may include as an accessory use the
limited retail sale of goods, services, or products such as prepared food are
served to the public.
National pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) (Stormwater): A
permitting system established by section 402 of the Clean Water Act. NPDES
permits are issued by the state for discharges directly to the surface waters
of the state.
Natural ground surface (Stormwater): The ground surface in its original state
before any land disturbing activity.
New development (Stormwater): Any activity for which a building permit or a
grading permit is required, or where any land disturbing activity occurs,
except for the construction of a single-family home not governed by the town’s
subdivision ordinance.
Nightclub: An establishment in which alcoholic beverages are served for on-
site consumption, which has a capacity for 100 or more persons, and which
offers recorded or live music performance.
Nonconforming Project: Any structure, development, or undertaking that is
underway, but incomplete at the effective date of this Ordinance and would be
inconsistent with any regulation applicable to the district in which it is
located if completed as proposed or planned.
Nonconformity: A lot, use of land without structures or with minor structures,
use of major structures and premises, structures, and/or, characteristics of
uses which are prohibited, regulated, or restricted by the enactment of this
Ordinance or a subsequent amendment thereto. Nonconformities which lawfully
existed prior to the effective date of this Ordinance may continue, subject to
the provisions of Section 7.
Non-deciduous tree: Any tree which does not lose its leaves or needles for a
portion of the year.
Non-profit Organization: An entity or group organized for purposes other than
generating a profit, such as charitable, religious, fraternal, scientific and/
or social organizations.
Non-residential Uses: Uses of land for purposes other than permanent, or long
term, residential use by owners or occupants pursuant to lease or rental
agreements. This category includes retail, office, commercial, industrial,
institutional and other similar uses. This category does not include multi-
family or attached dwellings.
Nursing Home: See Group Care Facility
Office Uses Not Providing Services To Clients Via Walk-In Traffic:
Establishments that primarily serve as the base of operations for businesses.
Examples include, but are not limited to corporate headquarters and enterprises
engaged in intellectual research or consulting. The traffic pattern of these
uses is generally confined to employee traffic and general service providers
rather than clients or customers who came to the establishment for on-site
meetings or consultations.
Offices Uses Providing Services To Clients: A business establishment which may
offer a range of services for its clients, including but not limited to,
government offices, insurance office, attorney office, or real estate office.
The traffic pattern of these uses includes client visits as well as employee
and general service traffic. This category does not include uses captured by
the term “health care facility” or service businesses classified as “personal
service businesses.”
Off-site facility, with respect to any particular property (Stormwater): A
stormwater management facility serving such property and located on such
property.
Off-street Loading: Area, usually in or adjacent to a parking lot, reserved to
provide short term parking for delivery vehicles while loading or unloading
goods, materials, equipment, etc. for a nearby commercial establishment.
One-year, 24-hour Storm: The surface runoff resulting from a 24-hour rainfall
of an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on average, once in 12
months and with a duration of 24 hours.
On-site facility, with respect to any particular property (Stormwater): A
stormwater management facility serving the property but not located on such
property.
Opacity: A measurement indicating the degree of obscuration of light or
visibility.
Open Space: That area within a development that is not covered with a structure
or impervious surfaces, which has been set aside for resource protection,
amenity, and/or buffers (including water quality buffers on streams and
required land use buffers), legal title to which may be held by the developer,
property owners’ association, unit of government, or non-profit entity. Buffers
and building setbacks that are privately held on individual lots are not
included in the definition of open space. Stormwater control devices, including
swales and ponds, recreation areas, reserved rights-of-way, and easements for
above ground activities or utilities are not considered open space. Open space
shall be designated as such on the preliminary and final plans.
Outlet Sales: Ancillary sales of products on the premises where the products
are manufactured or packaged for distribution. Outlet sales areas may not
exceed 10% of the building space on the parcel.
Outparcel: A parcel of land adjacent to, and developed in association with a
shopping center or multi-tenant property development, which is designated on an
approved site plan as a location for a freestanding structure.
Outfall: A point at which stormwater (1) enters surface water or (2) exits the
property of a particular owner.
Owner: For stormwater purposes, this term shall mean the legal or beneficial
owner of land, including but not limited to a mortgagee or vendee in
possession, receiver, executor, trustee, or long-term or commercial lessee, or
any other person or entity holding proprietary rights in the property or having
legal power of management and control of the property. “Owner” shall include
long-term commercial tenants; management entities, such as those charged with
or engaged in the management of properties for profit; and every person or
entity having joint ownership of the property. A secured lender not in
possession of the property does not constitute an owner, unless the secured
lender is included within the meaning of “owner” under another description in
this definition, such as a management entity.
Park, Athletic: A site containing public or non-profit athletic facilities for
use by the general public. Examples include ball fields, indoor or outdoor
courts, pools, skating rinks, etc. Uses in this category serve the community or
regional recreation needs. Substantial indoor facilities will be considered
Recreation Facilities.
Park, Community: A site, typically 5 acres or more in area, offering a variety
of recreation opportunities for use by the general public. May contain elements
of all other park types listed. Generally serves the entire community or
region.
Park, Cultural: A site containing public or non-profit recreation facilities of
a cultural nature for use by the general public. These include but are not
limited to historic sites/structures/areas, concert sites, museum site, and
other facilities providing cultural, educational, or interpretive services of a
historic, natural, or aesthetic resource.
Park, Natural: A site offering enjoyment of the natural environment for use by
the general public. Expected uses include trails, picnic areas, signage,
overlooks, etc. Comfort facilities may be installed. Sites which also provide
structured interpretive events regularly shall be considered cultural.
Park, Neighborhood: An area created for the recreational enjoyment of the
immediate neighborhood that may be owned & maintained by a governmental agency,
property owners association, or other non-profit organization. Features
typically include: play equipment, picnic area, benches, open areas for non-
regulation sports. These parks should be designed with significant neighborhood
input.
Parking (principal use): An off-street parking area (i.e., parking lot or
structure) provided on a different parcel than the use(s) it is intended to
serve.
Parking Space: A portion of the vehicle accommodation area set aside for the
parking of one (1) vehicle.
Passive Recreation Area: Undeveloped land or minimally improved lands which
includes the following: landscaped area, natural area, ornamental garden, non-
landscaped greenspace, stairway, decorative fountain, picnic area, water body,
or trail without recreational staffing, devoted to recreational activities.
Patio: An outdoor paved surface without a roof, the elevation of which is less
than a 6" above from the surrounding ground level.
Pedestrian Amenities: Items located within the public right of way or on public
or private property for the benefit of pedestrians or bicyclists including but
not limited to benches, drinking fountains, refuse and recycling containers,
bicycle racks or lockers, wayfinding signage.
Pedestrian Circulation: The path or paths pedestrians use to move around a
site. This includes both improved and unimproved routes.
Pedestrian Façade: That plane of the building elevation or façade that is
oriented to pedestrian passers-by and/or has or is expected to have a
pedestrian entrance.
Perennial Stream: Any water feature shown as solid blue lines on the current
USGS Quadrangle maps for Duplin County or so designated by authorized staff
upon a field investigation.
Performance Bond or Guarantee: Financial guarantee provided by an applicant to
the town to ensure the completion of a required element of a plan or permit.
Such guarantee must be issued in accordance with G.S. 160D-804.1.
Performance Facility: A structure designed to accommodate the assembly of
persons attending athletic events, musical performances, dramatic or
terpsichorean performances, speeches or ceremonies, motion picture
presentations, and other entertainment events.
Permanent Road: Roads intended to be used in excess of one year, and,
therefore, designed and constructed to standards sufficient for such long term
use.
Permit (Stormwater): Any and all permits required by federal, state and local
ordinances and regulations.
Permittee (Stormwater): Any person to whom a permit is issued.
Permit-issuing Authority: Term used to generically refer to the various
elected, volunteer, and staff entities within the town government possessing
authority under this Ordinance to review and approve development proposals.
Permit-to-construct (Stormwater): Following the satisfactory review of the
application form and supporting documents whereby the town finds that the
application and supporting documents are consistent with the requirements of
this article, the town will issue a permit-to- construct.
Perpendicular Parking: A pattern of parking where the individual parking spaces
are oriented perpendicular to the curb or the flow of traffic.
Person: Includes, without limitation, individuals, firms, partnerships,
associations, institutions, corporations, municipalities and other political
subdivisions, and governmental agencies.
Personal Property: Property which is owned, utilized and/or maintained by an
individual or occupant of his or her residence and acquired in the normal
course of living in or maintaining a residence. Personal property shall not
include merchandise which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment.
Personal Service Business: A business establishment which may offer a range of
services for its clients’ body or clothing, including but not limited to,
beauty parlor, barber shop, doctor’s office, dental office, salons or spas,
tailors, dry cleaning drop off/pick up, laundry self-serve or drop off/pick up,
therapeutic massage, and /or mental health counseling.
Personal Vehicle Sales: An establishment including any building or land area
for the display and sale of passenger cars, trucks, sport/utility vehicles,
mini or conversion vans, motorcycles or other motorized vehicles designed to
transport less than 10 individuals. On-site display is limited to 15 or fewer
vehicles. (See also definition for Motor Vehicle Sales / Rentals.)
Petroleum Products Storage: Establishments that store and distribute motor
vehicle fuel, fuel oil, propane, kerosene, liquefied natural gas, and liquefied
propane gas to retail (no more than ten thousand (10,000) gallons or bulk (more
than ten thousand (10,000) gallons) sale customers.
Phased Development Plan: Plan for development of property to be completed in
distinct sections or phases, the distinction between phases usually involving
different uses of land. A phased development plan is typically subject to a
special use permit process.
Plat: A map drawn on translucent material for recording in the Register of
Deeds.
Pod (Master Plans): A component of a master plan that shares a single land use
designation. It may or may not be intended for subdivision as a single parcel.
Post Office: A facility operated by the United States Postal Service, to sell
U.S. postage stamps and U.S. postal products and accept mail and packages for
delivery.
Post-development state (Stormwater): A site in its proposed condition following
the completion of a development activity.
Private facility (Stormwater): Any stormwater management facility not owned or
operated by the Town or the State of North Carolina.
Processing Facility: A building or structure in which manufacturing,
processing, creating, renovating, painting, cleaning, and assembling of goods,
merchandise or equipment occurs. Uses in this category may require an air
quality permit from the State of North Carolina and/or a Special Industrial
Users Permit from the Town Utilities Director.
Public Event: A discernible activity offered for general public enjoyment
including but not limited to performances, competitions, displays of
collectables or art not generally available for public viewing, speeches, fund
raisers selling items not generally available to the public at that location
and the like. The event must be open to the public, with or without an entrance
fee, and must take place in Town or in the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction. Examples of public events include: festivals, fund raisers or
tournaments. Public events must be sponsored by non-profits, units of state or
local government, or formal associations of merchants. Registration periods for
sports leagues or camps (but not individual classes) offered by not-for profit
organizations and taking place within the jurisdiction of this ordinance also
qualify as “public events.”
Public facility (Stormwater): Any stormwater management facility owned and/or
operated by the Town or the State of North Carolina.
Public Hearing: A meeting of an advisory or elected board to review a proposal
for action under this Ordinance or as a component of the comprehensive plan, at
which the board receives comments from the applicant, staff, and general public
about the proposal.
Public Safety Services: A service operated by government or non-governmental
agency to provide protection for citizens or residents, such as fire, police,
and rescue squad.
Public Utilities: Facilities and improvements for the provision of water,
sewage, electricity, natural gas, cable television, or telephone service
(excluding telecommunication towers) to or through an area. This category of
uses includes but is not limited to, water treatment plants, wastewater
treatment plants, elevated water tanks, electric substations, and other
significant installations. This use does not include minor above ground items
like transformers, telephone switches or exchanges, or pumping stations.
Quasi-judicial Decision: A decision involving the finding of facts regarding a
specific application of a development regulation and that requires the exercise
of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation. The term includes,
but is not limited to, decisions involving variances, certificates of
appropriateness, special use permits, and appeals of administrative
determinations. Such decisions shall follow statutory procedures as provided in
G.S. 160D-406.
Recreation Service Area: Sometimes referred to as a “park district,” a
“recreation service area” is a defined geographic area within the Town’s
jurisdiction which has been designated as a unit for purposes of determining
allocation of recreation or park facilities and/or resources.
Recreation Space: That area within a development which is designed, shaped, and
constructed to provide a combination of active and passive recreational
opportunities to the public and/or the owners and residents of the development,
title to which is held by the developer, property owners’ association, unit of
government, or non-profit entity.
Recreational Facilities: An indoor establishment (entirely within an enclosed
structure) use providing for sport and recreation activities that are operated
or carried on primarily for financial gain. Examples of recreational facilities
uses include, but are not limited to bowling alleys, dancehalls, skating rinks,
indoor commercial swimming pools, and racquet and tennis club facilities
(indoor).
Recycling Materials Collections Center: A facility used as a temporary
repository for recyclable and recovered materials for collection and
transportation
Research Facility: A facility established to aid in the studious inquiry or
examination of a scientific topic. This includes, but is not limited to botany,
biology, chemistry, physics, computers, and electronics. Studies of the
humanities are not included in this use but are included in “office uses not
providing services to clients via walk in traffic.”
Residential: Use of land for permanent or long-term dwelling purposes, either
by owners or, lessees or renters for periods longer than one month or when the
occupant has no other registered address.
Restaurant (Types A, B, and C): Business specializing in preparing and/or
serving food on site. A restaurant may also serve alcoholic beverages for on or
off site consumption provided it has the proper license from the state for such
sales and is classified as an eating establishment by virtue of its food/
alcohol sales ratio:
   a)   Class A restaurants seat no more than 100 persons and do not have
drive-thru service.
   b)   Class B restaurants seat more than 100 persons and/or offer drive-thru
service.
   c)   Class C restaurants offer seating capacity for 20 persons or less and
may offer carry out and/or delivery of food and beverages.
Restrictive Covenant: Legal instrument, suitable for filing with the Register
of Deeds which establishes rights, duties, restrictions or limitations on the
use of real property, described in the instrument.
Retail Sale & Rentals: Commercial enterprises that provide goods and/or
services directly to the consumer, where such goods are available for immediate
purchase or rental and removal from the premises by the purchaser/renter.
Examples include stores selling, leasing, or renting consumer, home, and
business goods such as, but not limited to, art, art supplies, bicycles,
cameras, clothing, dry goods, electronic equipment, fabric, furniture, garden
supplies, gifts, groceries and food sales, hardware, home improvements,
household products, jewelry, pets, pet food, pharmaceuticals, plants, printed
material, stationary, and videos.
Retention (Stormwater): The collection and storage of stormwater runoff without
subsequent discharge to surface waters.
Right-of-Way: As used in this Ordinance, this term describes an area of land
set aside in a deed, offer of dedication or plat, for use as a strip of land on
or within which roads, streets, or other public facilities or utilities may be
constructed, improved and maintained. Such rights-of-way are usually “public,”
title being conveyed to the Town or other public body or entity.
Riparian Buffer: Area set aside along rivers, streams or other bodies of water,
within which the use and/or improvement of land is restricted or prohibited.
Rooming/Boarding House: A residential building consisting of at least one (1)
dwelling unit together with more than two (2) rooms that are rented out or are
designed or intended to be rented, but which rooms, individually or
collectively, do not constitute separate dwelling units. A rooming house or
boarding house is distinguished from a tourist home in that the former is
designed to be occupied by longer term residents (at least month to month
tenants) as opposed to overnight or weekly guests.
School: Art and Music: A public or private school or business offering art and
music classes to students of a variety of ages. Such uses include classrooms,
auditoriums, libraries, and other facilities that further the educational
mission of the institution.
School: Dance/Martial Arts: A public or private school or business offering
dance, martial arts, cheerleading, gymnastics, and similar classes to students
of a variety of ages. Such uses include classrooms and other facilities that
further the educational mission of the institution.
School: Elementary, Middle & Secondary: A public or private school offering a
State appointed or authorized curriculum of general, technical, or alternative
instruction at the elementary, middle, and/or high school levels that operates
in buildings or structures or on premises on land leased or owned by the
educational institution for administrative purposes. Such uses include
classrooms, laboratories, auditoriums, libraries, cafeterias, after school
care, athletic facilities, dormitories, and other facilities that further the
educational mission of the institution.
School: Higher Education: A public or private, institution for post-secondary
education offering courses in general or technical education which operates
within buildings or premises on land owned or leased by the institution for
administrative and faculty offices, classrooms, laboratories, chapels,
auditoriums, lecture halls, libraries, student and faculty centers, athletic
facilities, dormitories, fraternities and sororities, and other facilities
which further the educational mission of the institution. In no event shall
this definition prohibit a college or university from engaging in an activity
historically conducted by such institutions.
School: Vocational: A public or private school offering general, technical, and
vocational instruction that operates in buildings or structures or on premises
on land leased or owned by the educational institution for administrative
purposes. Such uses include classrooms, laboratories, libraries, cafeterias,
and other facilities that further the educational mission of the institution.
Screen: A built or natural device (hedge, fence, wall, berm, etc.) which
defines an area and protects one use from the impacts of an adjacent use or
activity.
Sediment (Stormwater): Soils transported or deposited by the action or erosion
or artificial means.
Sediment control (land disturbance) permit (Stormwater): The sediment control
permit issued by the State of North Carolina authorizing land disturbing
activities in accordance with applicable ordinances and regulations.
Setback: The minimum distance between a property line and structure including
any projection thereof but excluding eaves and gutters, not to exceed twenty
four (24) inches. Pedestrian or vehicular access ways may be constructed within
the required setback line (see Figure
10-2).
Setback Line: The line on the front, rear and sides of the lot, that delineates
the boundary between the approved building area on a lot and the area within
which a structure may not be constructed, erected, or placed. The setback line
is set according to the zoning district regulations.
Sharp Cut-off Type: A light fixture where no portion of the fixture bulb (light
source) may extend below the fixture housing.
Side Yard: The shortest distance between the structure on the lot and the
nearest property line, other than the front lot line or rear lot line, measured
parallel to the front setback line required for the appropriate zoning
district.
Sight Distance: As used in this Ordinance, the minimum distance, usually
measured in a straight line, between two fixed points, with no obstructions.
Sight Preservation Triangle: The triangle area formed by a diagonal line
connecting two (2) points located on intersecting right-of-way lines (or a
right-ofway line and the edge of a driveway), each point being a certain
distance from the intersection, and from the two (2) intersecting right-of-way
lines (or a right-of-way line and a driveway). On some occasions, the Town or
state highway department may require additional sight zones as deemed necessary
to provide adequate safety.
Sign: Any words, lettering, parts of letters, pictures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, trade names or marks by which anything is made
known in a visible form used to attract attention from any public roadway.
Sign Band: Architectural feature of a building façade that indicates a
preferred location for signage. Generally a horizontal depression centered
above the primary door entrance of a commercial structure.
Sign, Ground Mounted: A sign which extends from the ground or which has support
which places the bottom of the sign less than two (2) feet from the ground.
Sign, Identification and Occupancy: Any sign, symbol, trademark, structure or
similar device displayed on premises to inform the public regarding the
occupants or activities conducted on, or products available at, said premises.
Sign, Hanging: An advertising sign attached to the façade of a business that
projects perpendicularly from the façade. Hanging signs are only permitting in
the Historic District, generally have text on both sides, and are treated as
wall mounted signs for sign area calculations.
Sign, Joint Identification: A sign bearing the name of individual tenants
located within a multi-tenant development, and which may include the name of
the multi-tenant development.
Sign, Neon: A sign in which illuminated tubing constitutes or forms all or part
of the message of the sign. Also includes signs in which the message area of
the sign is outlined, underlined, or otherwise highlighted by illuminated
tubing.
Sign, Portable: Any freestanding sign that is not permanently affixed to the
ground.
Sign, Outdoor Advertising: Any sign which directs attention to a business,
company, service, accommodation, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered
at a location other than the premises on which the sign is located.
Sign, Real Estate: A sign informing the public that all or portions of a given
premises are for sale or rent.
Sign, Sandwich Board: A self-supporting sign resting on or supported by a means
of poles, stands, or any other type of base that sits on the ground.
Sign, Temporary: A sign that (1) is used in connection with a circumstance,
situation, or event that is designed, intended, or expected to take place or to
be completed within a reasonably short or definite period after the erection of
such sign, or (2) is intended to remain on the location where it is erected or
placed for a period of not more than 15 days. If a sign display area is
permanent but the message displayed is subject to periodic changes, that sign
shall not be regarded as temporary.
Single-family residential use (Stormwater): One residential structure on one
parcel containing one housing unit.
Site (Stormwater): That portion of land, lot or parcel of land, or combination
of contiguous lots or parcels of land upon which land disturbing activity is to
be performed.
Site expansion (Stormwater): The addition of new buildings, structures, parking
lots or any other new impervious surface to the site. Construction of any new
impervious surface on an area previously pervious, which does not meet the
definition of redevelopment, as defined in this section; shall be considered as
expansion.
Site Specific Vesting Plan: A site-specific vesting plan consists of a plan
submitted to the Town in which the applicant requests vesting pursuant to this
UDO and in accordance with the required procedure for approval, describing with
reasonable certainty on the plan the type and intensity of use for a specific
parcel or parcels of property.
Sketch Plan: A preliminary and imprecise drawing of a proposed subdivision
submitted for staff review
Solar Energy Facility: A Facility used to convert solar power energy into
electrical power for interconnection with the power grid for primarily off-site
energy consumption or to covert solar power for any other available uses.
Solid Waste Residual: Solids from a wastewater treatment plant
Stacking Spaces: Areas designed and located to accommodate motor vehicles
waiting to make a turning movement or to be served at a drive-in window.
Storage & Warehousing: Indoor: A use engaged in storage of manufactured
products, supplies, and equipment excluding bulk storage of materials that are
flammable or explosive or that present hazards or conditions commonly
recognized as offensive.
Storage & Warehousing: Outdoor: The keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods,
junk, material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more than
twenty-four (24) hours. This shall not include the display of vehicles for sale
in a new or used car sales lot. Such activities may be the principal use of the
land where located, or an accessory use to a principal use.
Storage & Warehousing: Self: A use that provides individual storage units,
buildings, or spaces for rent to businesses or individuals for storage of items
excluding bulk storage of materials that are flammable or explosive or that
present hazards or conditions commonly recognized as offensive. This use may
include parking spaces or outside storage areas for long-term storage of
vehicles or boats and may include a dwelling for a caretaker or security guard.
Storage Tanks Elevated: Structures designs and built to store water in order to
increase the pressure of water in the distribution system and to supply
additional capacity for treated water; this does not include tanks used to
store petroleum products or chemicals.
Stormwater management: The qualitative and quantitative measures for
controlling stormwater runoff. Qualitative controls consist of vegetative,
structural and other measures which control or treat pollutants carried by
surface runoff. Quantitative controls consist of vegetative and structural
measures which control the increased volume and rate of surface runoff caused
by manmade changes to the land and have the effect of maintaining the
predevelopment patterns of flood magnitude and frequency.
Stormwater management plan: A plan which has been submitted as a prerequisite
to obtaining a zoning, conditional use, or building permit from the Town of
Wallace, and which is designed to minimize erosion, prevent off-site
sedimentation, and control stormwater runoff. The plan shall be prepared and
designed in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance, and all other
state laws and regulations as may apply.
Stormwater Runoff: Volume of water leaving a tract or parcel of land after a
rain event, which is not retained on-site.
Stormwater system: All manmade structures or natural features within the town
that serve to provide for conveyance of stormwater runoff water resulting from
natural storm events. Components of the stormwater system include but are not
limited to swales, ditches, pipes, channels, creeks, ponds, weirs, culverts,
manholes, swales, inlet structures and infiltration fields.
Street: Public or private access ways that accommodate movements of vehicular
traffic.
Street, Alley: A minor way which is not intended for general circulation but is
used primarily for vehicular access to the rear or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street at the front.
Street, Arterial: A street used or designed to be used for through traffic,
usually on a continuous route. Arterial streets carry high volumes of traffic,
in excess of twelve hundred (1200) trips per day. For purposes of these
regulations, such streets include those so designated in the Comprehensive Plan
or any element thereof.
Street, Collector: A street used or designed to carry traffic between minor,
local streets and arterial streets, but which may also provide direct access to
abutting properties. It serves or is designed to serve directly or indirectly
more than one hundred (100) units and is designed to be used or is used to
carry more than eight hundred (800) trips per day.
Street, Cul-de-sac: A street that generally terminates in a circular or bulbous
right-of-way. It is used or designed to be used to provide access to abutting
properties.
Street, Local: A street used or designed to provide access to abutting
properties. It serves or is designed to serve at least ten (10) but not more
than twenty-five (25) dwelling units and is expected or does handle between
seventy-five (75) and two hundred (200) trips per day.
Street, Private: A street that is a privately maintained vehicular way built to
the private street standards of the Town of Wallace.
Street, Public: A street which has been accepted for permanent maintenance by
the State of North Carolina or the Town of Wallace.
Structure: Anything constructed, erected, or placed on the land, above or below
grade. It includes, but is not limited to: buildings, signs, load bearing walls
docks, columns, and pools. Walkways, fences, patios, or one and two family
driveways are not considered structures.
Structure, Principal: A structure or, where the context so indicates, a group
of structures in which is conducted the main or principal use of the lot on
which building is situated.
Subdivider: Any person or persons, firm or corporation subdividing land within
the jurisdiction of this Ordinance.
Subdivision: Subdivision means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into
two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or
building development (whether immediate or future) and includes all division of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets.
Subdivision, Conservation: A subdivision containing 20 or more lots in which
the individual building lot size is reduced and common open space area equal to
or greater than the reduction of individual lot sizes is provided. The provided
open space must protect irreplaceable natural features or include difficult
physical features that make a conventional development pattern undesirable. The
density of a conservation subdivision will be established through the district
density applied to the gross development parcel size.
Subdivision, Major: A division of a tract of land into five (5) or more lots
with access to be provided from a public street.
Subdivision, Minor: A division of a tract of land into no more than four (4)
lots with access to be provided from a public street.
Subdivision, Minor Expedited: The division of one existing parcel of land under
single ownership that is not exempt per G.S. 160D-802(a); (1) where no part of
the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided in the 10 years prior to the
proposed division; (2) the entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is
greater than 5 acres; (3) after division, no more than three lots result from
the division and all resultant lots comply with all lot dimension size
requirements of the applicable zoning district and the use of the lots is in
conformity with the applicable zoning district; and (4) a permanent means of
ingress and egress is recorded for each.
Substantial Progress: For the purposes of determining whether sufficient
progress has been made on an approved plan, one or more of the following
construction activities toward the completion of a site or subdivision plan
shall occur: obtaining a grading permit and conducting grading activity on a
continuous basis and not discontinued for more than thirty (30) days; or
installation and approval of on-site infrastructure; or obtaining a building
permit for the construction and approval of a building foundation. “Substantial
progress” for purposes of determining whether an approved plan is null and void
is not necessarily the same as “substantial expenditures” used for determining
vested rights pursuant to applicable law.
Supporting documents (Stormwater): The plan, profiles, details, specifications,
calculations, deeds, easements, covenants, operation and maintenance plan, maps
delineating the 404 wetlands on the site signed by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, soils investigation data, and other such material as may be required
by the town to review the application for a permit-to-construct for a project
pursuant to this article.
Temporary Operating Permit: A permit issued by the Council permitting a
nonconforming mobile home park to be maintained and operated for a period of
six months subject only to the provisions of this chapter made expressly
applicable to the owner, or owners, lessee or agent.
Ten-year frequency storm (Stormwater): The storm of an intensity expected to
occur, on average, once in a ten (10) year period of time, and whose duration
can be expected to produce the peak rate of runoff for the watershed of
interest. This information shall be obtained from NOAA’s National Weather
Service Precipitation Frequency Data server (http://dipper.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/
pfds/).
Telephone Exchange and Switching Station: A facility designed and built to
handle telecommunications equipment. This installation may contain any
necessary storage and maintenance facilities.
Town: The word “Town” or “Town of Wallace” or “Wallace” shall refer to all
lands in the corporate limits and within the extraterritorial planning
boundaries of the Town of Wallace as recorded in the Duplin County Registry of
deeds and as shown on the Official Zoning Map.
Townhouse: A one (1) family dwelling unit in a row of at least three (3) such
units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside; no
unit is located over another unit; and each unit is separated from any other
unit be one (1) or more common fire resistant walls.
Transmission Lines: For lines carrying electrical energy, transmission lines
are those that carry forty-five thousand (45,000) volts or more. For lines
which carry liquids or gases, transmission lines are those operating, or
designed to operate, at pressures of one hundred (100) pounds per square inch
or greater.
Tree Protection Zone: Area on a development plan designated for no development
and no land disturbing activity
Understory Tree: A subset of deciduous trees that are smaller in mature height
than canopy trees and prefer a growth habitat under the protection of canopy or
shade trees
Undisturbed Area: Area where the ground cover plant material is intact and
undamaged
Variance: A relaxation of the literal terms of this Ordinance where such action
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property and not the result of actions or the situation of the
applicant, and where a literal enforcement of the Ordinance would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship to the property owner. Establishment or
expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be permitted by a variance.
Vehicle Accommodation Area: That portion of a lot that is used by vehicles for
access, circulation, parking, and loading and unloading. It comprises the total
of the circulation area, parking spaces and loading and unloading spaces.
Vehicle Restoration: The business of renovating vehicles ten (10) years of age
or older to showroom condition that does not involve outside storage or sales
of vehicles. Accessory uses of restored parts sales, restored vehicles sales,
restored vehicle upholstery, and restored machining are allowed.
Veterinarian Office / Animal Hospital: An establishment used for the care,
grooming, diagnosis, and treatment of animals.
Walkways: Public pedestrian way within the road right-of-way or other public
access easement of an approved surface. Walkways are available for public use,
but may be owned and maintained by homeowners associations or similar entities.
Water course or drainage way (Stormwater): Any natural or artificial water
course, including, but not limited to: streams, rivers, creeks, ponds, lakes,
ditches, channels, canals, conduits, culverts, drains, waterways, gullies,
ravines, or washes, in which waters flow in a definite direction or course,
either continuously or intermittently; and including any areas adjacent thereto
which are subject inundation by reason of overflow or flood water.
Water & Sanitary Sewer Pumping Station: Mechanical installation for boosting
water pressure or applying pressure to sewage collection lines to address
topographic challenges in a water supply or waste water collection system.
Water Feature: A prominent aspect or characteristic of a geographic area that
exhibits verifiable evidence of a presence of water in the soil. Examples of
water features include, but are not limited to, perennial and intermittent
streams, lakes, ponds, reservoirs, springs, artesian wells, irrigation wells,
marshes or swamps, wetlands, and natural drainage ditches (non-ephemeral).
Wetlands (404 Wetlands) (Stormwater): Those areas defined by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers as jurisdiction 404 wetlands.
Wholesale Sales: Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in
selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial commercial, institutional, or
professional business users; or to other wholesalers.
Written Narrative: A written description of a proposed action
Yard Sales: All sales open to the public, conducted from or on a residential
building or premise in any zone, as defined by the Unified Development
Ordinance, for the purpose of disposing of personal property including but not
limited to, all sales referred to as “garage sale,” “lawn sale,” “yard sale,”
“attic sale,” “porch sale,” “room sale,” “backyard sale,” “patio sale,”
“rummage sale” or similar name. Yard sales normally consist of selling used
household goods and/or belongings. This definition shall not include a sale
where no more than 2 specific items are held out for sale and any advertisement
of such sale specifically names those items to be sold.
Zoning Compliance Permit: A document signed by the Planning Director, as
required in the Unified Development Ordinance, as a condition precedent to the
commencement of a use or the erection, construction, reconstruction,
restoration, alteration, conversion, or installation of a structure or
building, which acknowledges that such use, structure, or building complies
with the provisions of the Unified Development Ordinance. The Zoning Compliance
Permit is valid for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of issuance or
from the date of the adoption of this Ordinance.
Zoning Lot: See Lot, Zoning.
