BOONEVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2026 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through    Ordinance 2024-11, passed 12-17-24, and
State legislation current through 2025 A.L.S. #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
***** Ordinance 2001-17 *****
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Boonville
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Common Council of the City of Boonville has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Political
Subdivision of general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance
in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BOONVILLE:
      Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Boonville as revised,
amended, restated, codified and complied in book form are hereby adopted as and
shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances" of the City of Boonville, Indiana.
      Section 2.    Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall
consist of the following Titles:
            Title I: General Provisions
            Title III: Administration
            Title V: Public Works
            Title VII: Traffic Code
             Title IX: General Regulations
            Title XI: Business Regulations
            Title XIII: General Offenses
            Title XV: Land Usage
            Table of Special Ordinances
            Table I: Annexations & Detachments
            Table II: Contracts & Agreements
            Table III: Franchise Agreements
            Table IV: Improvements & Constructions
            Table V: Real Estate Transactions
            Table VI: Street Name Changes
            Table VII: Street Vacations
            Table VIII: Zoning Map Changes
            Table IX: Street Grade Changes
            Table X: Bonds
      Section 3.    All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in
such Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective
date of this Ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or
in part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of this Ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes, levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or
detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to
certain money, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of
bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or
personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land
to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public
places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Code.
      Section 4.    Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Common Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the City
of Boonville is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
      Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the people of this Municipality, and shall take effect at
the earliest date provided by law.
Adopted this  8th  day of  November , 2001
                     Pamela Henrickson /s/
                     Pamela Henrickson
                     Mayor
ATTEST:
Dixie Sulawske /s/
Dixie Sulawske
Clerk-Treasurer
***** Ordinance 2002-4 *****
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Boonville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Boonville; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the State code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Common Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA;
      Section 1.   That the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Boonville as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
      Section 2.   Such Supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of
its adoption and approval by the Common Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the
City of Boonville is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
      Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Common Council of the City of Boonville on this 13th
day of June , 2002.
                     Pamela Henrickson /s/
                     Pamela Henrickson
                     Mayor
ATTEST:
Dixie Sulawske /s/
Dixie Sulawske
Clerk-Treasurer
***** ORDINANCE 2003–4 *****
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the second supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the second supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk-Treasurer of
the Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect upon adoption.
ADOPTED this 2nd day of July, 2003.
   Pam Hendrickson /s/
Pam Hendrickson, Mayor
Dixie Sulawske /s/
Dixie Sulawske
Clerk-Treasurer
***** ORDINANCE 2005–4 *****
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the fourth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the fourth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk-Treasurer of
the Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect upon adoption.
ADOPTED this 5th  day of May, 2005.
                                 Pam Hendrickson /s/
                                 Pam Hendrickson, Mayor
Nancy Shull /s/
Nancy Shull
Clerk-Treasurer
***** ORDINANCE 2008–9 *****
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the fifth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the fifth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk-Treasurer of
the Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect upon adoption.
ADOPTED this 3rd  day of July, 2008.
                                 Pam Hendrickson /s/
                                 Pam Hendrickson, Mayor
Nancy Shull /s/
Nancy Shull
Clerk-Treasurer
***** ORDINANCE 2015 -1 *****
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the sixth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the sixth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if setout in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk-Treasurer of
the Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
ADOPTED this 5th  day of February, 2015.
                                 Mike Webb /s/
                                 Mike Webb, Council President
Tammy Boruff /s/
Tammy Boruff
Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
***** ORDINANCE 2016-10 *****
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the seventh (7) supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF BOONVILLE, INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the seventh (7) supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if setout in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk-Treasurer of
the Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
ADOPTED this  6  day of  October, 2016.
                                 Charles Wyatt /s/
                                 Charles Wyatt, Council President
Tammy Boruff /s/
Tammy Boruff
Clerk-Treasurer

TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
   
11.   CITY BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Boonville
City Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified Ordinances”
or “Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Common Council.
   COUNCIL. The Common Council.
   COUNTY. Warrick County, Indiana.
   HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
   MONTH. One calendar month.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
   TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
   WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person's
mark.
   YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) of this section does not affect the
operation of division (B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-
1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8 (a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: CITY BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   City boundaries
§ 11.01 CITY BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The real estate contained within the boundaries set out in divisions
(B) and (C) below is located within the corporate limits of the City.
   (B)   Beginning at the Southeast corner of the Northeast Quarter of the
Southeast Quarter of Section 34, Township 5 South, Range 8 West; thence west
along the south line of said Quarter Quarter section 822.23 feet to the east
right-of-way line of State Road 61; thence in a northerly direction along said
east right-of-way 2948.75 feet to the south right-of-way line of the Southern
Railroad; thence north to the north right-of-way line of the Southern Railroad;
thence in a westerly and northerly direction along the north and east right-of-
way lines of the Southern Railroad and Yankeetown Dock Railroad to the south
right-of-way line of State Road 62; thence in a southwesterly direction along
the south right-of-way line of State Road 62 for 212.4 feet to the west right-
of-way line of the Yankeetown Dock Railroad; thence in a southerly direction
along the west right-of-way line of the Yankeetown Dock Railroad 446.89 feet;
thence in a southwesterly direction, parallel with the centerline of State Road
62, to the centerline of Cypress Creek; thence north along the centerline of
Cypress Creek to a point on the north line of the Northwest Quarter of the
Southeast Quarter of Section 27, Township 5 South, Range 8 West; thence east
along said north line 815 feet to the Northeast corner of the Northwest Quarter
of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 27; thence east along the south line
of the north half of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 27 to the east
right-of-way line of the Yankeetown Dock Railroad; thence in a northerly
direction along said east railroad right-of-way line for approximately 1800
feet to a point which is located 585 feet north of the south line of the
Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 27; thence east to a
point which is located 400 feet west and 585 feet north of the Southeast corner
of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 27; thence
north 140 feet to the Northeast corner of Pioneer Two Subdivision, as per plat
thereof recorded in Plat File 1, Card 312 in the office of the Recorder of
Warrick County, Indiana; thence east along the north line of said subdivision
400 feet; thence north along the west line of said subdivision 170 feet; thence
in Northeasterly direction along the Northwest line of said subdivision 111.0
feet; thence continuing in the same Northeasterly direction 461.53 feet; thence
east 425 feet; thence south 436.20 feet to the Northeast corner of said Pioneer
Two Subdivision; thence south along the east line of said subdivision 290 feet;
thence west along the south line of said subdivision 263 feet; thence south
along the east line of said subdivision 125 feet to a point which is 585 feet
north of the south line of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
Section 26, Township 5 South, Range 8 West; thence east, parallel with said
south line, 263 feet; thence south 105 feet; thence east, parallel with said
south line, 1067 feet; thence north 180 feet; thence east to a point 144 feet
east of the Northwest corner of the Theresa Hart Addition to the City of
Boonville, as per plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 2, Page 36 in the office
of the Recorder of Warrick County, Indiana; thence north 200 feet to a point
located 164 feet east of the centerline of North First Street; thence east to a
point located 144 feet east of the east line of North Second Street; thence
south 200 feet to the north line of said Theresa Hart Addition; thence east to
a point which is located 145 feet east of the centerline of North Third Street;
thence south parallel with the centerline of North Third Street 640 feet to the
north line of North Street; thence east along said north line to the west line
of North Seventh Street in the North Height Addition to the City of Boonville,
a per plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 2, Page 44 in the office of the
Recorder of Warrick County, Indiana; thence north along said west line of North
Seventh Street 120 feet to the Southeast corner of Lot 78 in said North Heights
Addition; thence west along the south line of said Lot 78 for 140 feet; thence
north 80 feet to the Northwest corner of Lot 77 in said North Heights Addition;
thence east along the north line of said Lot 77 and along a line 40 feet south
of and parallel with the north line of Lot 82 in said North Heights Addition to
the centerline of Folsomville Road; thence in a Northeasterly direction along
the centerline of Folsomville Road to a point which is located 312.5 feet south
of the north line of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said
Section 26; thence east and parallel with said north line to the east line of
said Quarter Quarter section; thence south along said east line 1003 feet to
the Southeast corner of said Quarter Quarter section; thence west along the
south line of said Quarter Quarter section 624 feet to the east line of
Northwood Manor, as per plat thereof recorded in Plat File 1, Card 150 in the
office of the Recorder of Warrick County, Indiana; thence south to a point
which is located 558 feet south of and 618 feet west of the Northeast corner of
the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 26; thence east
202 feet; thence south 762 feet to the centerline of Poplar Street; thence east
along said centerline to a point located 293 feet west of the Southeast corner
of the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 26; thence
north and parallel with the east line of said Quarter Quarter section 391.3
feet; thence east 293 feet to the east line of said Quarter Quarter section;
thence south along said east line 391.3 feet to the Northeast corner of the
Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 26; thence west
along the north line of said Quarter Quarter section to the Northeast corner of
Robert Taylor's Second Addition, as per plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 2,
Page 2 6 in the office of the Recorder of Warrick County, Indiana, said point
being 494 feet east of the center of the intersection of Poplar Street and
Eighth Street; thence south along the east line of said Robert Taylor's Second
Addition 348 feet; thence east 84 feet; thence in a southwesterly direction to
a point on the east line of said Robert Taylor's Second Addition 440 feet south
of the Northeast corner of said Addition; thence south along the east line of
said Addition 460 feet to the Southeast corner of said Addition; thence west
along the south line of said Addition to the east line of Ninth Street; thence
south along said east line to a point located 132 feet north of the centerline
of Gough Avenue; thence east and parallel with the centerline of Gough Avenue
to the centerline of Flint Street; thence south, along the centerline of Flint
Street to the centerline of Gough Avenue; thence east along the centerline of
Gough Avenue to the centerline of Parklane Avenue; thence south along said
centerline of Parklane Avenue to a point which is located 213.5 feet south of
the Northwest corner of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
Section 36, Township 5 South, Range 8 West; thence east 373 feet; thence south
to the north right-of-way line of the Southern Railroad; thence in a
Northeasterly direction along said north right-of-way line to a point which is
located 460 feet east of the Northwest corner of the Northeast Quarter of said
Section 36; thence east along the north line of said Quarter section 200 feet;
thence south 1420 feet; thence west 660 feet; thence north 100 feet to the
Northwest corner of the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of said
Section 36; thence west 660 feet to the west line of the east half of the
Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 36; thence south
along said west line for 1050.3 feet; thence east 165 feet; thence south 264
feet to the north line of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 36; thence east
along said north line to a point located 903.59 feet west of the Northeast
corner of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 36,
said point being the west line of the Southern Railway spur; thence in a
southerly direction along said west line to a point located 1070 feet south of
the north line of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 36; thence west to a
point which is located 1067 feet south of the north line of the Southwest
Quarter of said Section 36 and 300 feet east of the west right-of-way line of
Old Rockport Road; thence in a Southeasterly direction, parallel with the west
right-of-way line of Old Rockport Road, to a point located 897 feet north and
115 feet east of the Southwest corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast
Quarter of said Section 36; thence east 275 feet to the west right-of-way line
of the Southern Railway spur; thence east 1577 feet to a point 681.42 feet west
of the east line of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said
Section 36; thence south 190 feet to a point located 708 feet north and 681.42
feet west of the Southeast corner of said Quarter Quarter section; thence east
681.42 feet to the east line of said Quarter Quarter section; thence south
along said east line 707 feet; thence east and parallel with the south line of
the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 31, Township 5 South,
Range 7 West, to a point 684 feet west of the east line of said Quarter Quarter
section; thence north 2278.6 feet; thence east 505 feet; thence north 30.4
feet; thence east 193 feet; thence north 348 feet to the centerline of State
Road 62 to a point located 14 feet east of the Northeast corner of the
Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 31; thence east
along said road centerline 229 feet; thence south 379.4 feet; thence east and
parallel with the centerline of said road 375 feet; thence south 2269.4 feet;
thence west 1283.4 feet to a point 684 feet west of the east line of the
Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of said section; thence west along
the south line of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of said
Section 31 to the Southeast corner of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast
Quarter of Section 36, Township 5 South, Range 8 West; thence west along the
south line of said Quarter Quarter section 1 foot; thence north and parallel
with the east line of said Quarter Quarter section 707 feet; thence west 681.42
feet; thence north 190 feet; thence west 1576 feet to the west right-of-way
line of the Southern Railway spur; thence west 275 feet to a point located 896
feet north and 13.5 feet east of the Southwest corner of the Southwest Quarter
of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 36, said point being 300 feet east of
the west right-of-way line of Old Rockport Road; thence in a Southeasterly
direction, parallel with the west right-of-way line of Old Rockport Road, to a
point located 804 feet north of the Southeast corner of the Southwest corner of
said Section 36; thence east 300 feet to the west right-of-way line of old
Rockport Road; thence in a Southeasterly direction along said west right-of-way
line to the Southeast corner of McRay Acres Part 1, as per plat thereof
recorded in Plat Book 4, Page 165 in the office of the Recorder of Warrick
County, Indiana; thence west along the south line of said McRay Acres Part 1
for 521 feet; thence south 285 feet; thence west 364 feet; thence south 200
feet; thence west 742.5 feet; thence north 1028.9 feet; thence west 874.32 feet
to the Southwest corner of the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of
said Section 36; thence north along the west line of said Quarter Quarter
section to a point located 860 feet south of the Northeast corner of the
Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South,
Range 8 West, said point being the Southeast corner of Lot 52 in Park View
Subdivision, as per plat thereof recorded in Plat File 4, Page 258 in the
office of the Recorder of Warrick County, Indiana; thence west along the south
line of said Lot 52 for 281.8 feet; thence south 130 feet; thence west 820
feet; thence north 130 feet; thence west to the Southwest corner of said Park
View Subdivision; thence north along the west line of said Park View
Subdivision to a point on the north line of the south half of the Northeast
Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 35; thence west along said
north line to the Northwest corner of the south half of the Northwest Quarter
of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 35; thence west along the north line
of said half Quarter Quarter section 132 feet; thence south to the south line
of said half Quarter Quarter section; thence east along said south line 132
feet to the Northeast corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
of Section 35, Township 5 South, Range 8 West; thence south along the east line
of said Quarter Quarter section to the Southeast corner of said Quarter Quarter
section; thence west along the south line of said Quarter Quarter section to a
point located 414.3 feet east of the Northwest corner of the Northeast Quarter
of Section 2, Township 6 South, Range 8 West, said point being the Northeast
corner of Quail Ridge Subdivision, as per plat thereof recorded in Plat File 1,
Card 237 in the office of the Recorder of Warrick County, Indiana; thence south
along the east line of said subdivision 740 feet; thence east along the north
line of said subdivision 236 feet; thence south along the east line of said
subdivision 766.67 feet; thence west 650.24 feet to the Southwest corner of
said subdivision, said point being on the east line of the Northwest Quarter of
said Section 2, a distance of 1509.89 feet south of the Northeast corner of
said Northwest Quarter; thence south along said east line to the south line of
said Quarter section 1197.50 feet; thence west along said south line 1859.87
feet; thence north 1377.69 feet; thence east 545.82 feet to the Southwest
corner of Shawnee Meadows Subdivision, as per plat thereof recorded in Plat
File 1, Card 180 in the office of the Recorder of Warrick County, Indiana, said
point being on the west line of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter
of said Section 2; thence north along said west line 1316.7 feet to the
Northwest corner of said Quarter Quarter section; thence north along the east
line of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 35, Township
5 South, Range 8 West, to a point located 515 feet south of the Northeast
corner of said Quarter Quarter section; thence west 683 feet to the centerline
of Yankeetown Road; thence in a northerly direction along the centerline of
said road 90 feet; thence east 375 feet; thence north 207 feet; thence east 300
feet to a point on the east line of said Quarter Quarter section; thence north
along said east line 218 feet to the Northeast corner of said Quarter Quarter
section; thence north to the south line of Monroe Street; thence west to the
centerline of Yankeetown Road; thence in a southwesterly direction along the
centerline of said road to the south line of the Northwest Quarter of the
Southwest Quarter of said Section 35; thence west along said south line 786.16
feet to the Southwest corner of said Quarter Quarter section and to the point
beginning.
   (C)   Beginning at the Southwest corner of the Northeast Quarter of Section
32, township 5 South, Range 8 West, and running thence north 1017 feet along
the west line of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 32; thence Southeasterly
to a point 155 feet north of the Northwest corner of the south half of the
Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 32; thence south to
the Northwest corner of the south half of the Southeast Quarter of the
Northeast Quarter of said Section 32; thence east 1320 feet to a point on the
east line of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 32, said point being 631
feet north of the Southeast corner of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 32;
thence south 81 degrees 45 minutes east a distance of 2331 feet to the
centerline of Kelly Drainage Ditch; thence in a southerly direction along the
centerline of said drainage ditch to a point on said centerline which is a
distance of 25 feet at right angles from the south line of the Northwest
Quarter of Section 33, Township 5 South, Range 8 West; thence westwardly and
parallel with the south line of said Quarter section to a point 25 feet north
of the Southwest corner of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 33; thence
north along the section line 90 feet; thence south 75 degrees 50 minutes west
to the east-west centerline of Section 32, Township 5 South, Range 8 West;
thence west along east-west centerline of Section 32 to the place of beginning.
(Ord. 1990-6, passed 3-15-90)

TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   COMMON COUNCIL
   
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
   
32.   COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
   
33.   CITY POLICIES
   
34.   PERSONNEL
   35.   FINANCE AND TAXES
CHAPTER 30: COMMON COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Composition; Councilmanic districts
   
30.02   Compensation
   30.03   Electronic meetings policy
Rules of Procedure
   
30.15   Assigning ordinance and resolution numbers
   
30.16   Annual ordinance/resolution directory
   
30.17   Voting procedures
   
30.18   Agenda
   
30.19   Roll call vote
   
30.20   Suspension of rules
   
30.21   Special meetings
   
30.22   Vetoed ordinances
   
30.23   Conflicts clause
   
30.24   Memorandum of meeting
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 30.01 COMPOSITION; COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS.
   The four existing districts for the Common Council of the City of Boonville
are hereby amended, and are hereby otherwise established, as set forth in the
map attached to Ordinance 2022-16 as Exhibit A, which map is incorporated
herein by reference.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 10-4-18; Am. Ord. 2022-16, passed 12-27-22)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation for members of the Common Council for assumption of duties
shall be as set forth from time to time by Council ordinance.
(Ord. 2001-11, passed 9-13-01)
§ 30.03 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of the Act, including definitions, apply to this
section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the "Electronic Meetings Policy" of
the Council and applies to the Council and any committee appointed directly by
the Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E), any member may participate in
a meeting by any electronic means of communication that: (i) allows all
participating members of the governing body to simultaneously communicate with
each other; and (ii) other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows
the public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
(i) shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a quorum; and may
participate in final action only if the member can be seen and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at that same meeting, subject to division (F)
below.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than a 50% of the meetings in a
calendar year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member's
electronic participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member's absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates
by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent.
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting, if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the Council may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Council may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Council's power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
   (F)   (1)   If an emergency is declared by:
         (a)   The Governor under I.C. 10-14-3-12; or
         (b)   The Mayor under I.C. 10-14-3-29; members are not required to be
physically present for a meeting until the emergency is terminated.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication
provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person.
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session.
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D) of this section.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 2021-9, passed 9-7-21)
**** RULES OF PROCEDURE ****
§ 30.15 ASSIGNING ORDINANCE AND RESOLUTION NUMBERS.
   (A)   To be considered at any City Council Meeting, without the necessity of
suspending the rules, any ordinance, resolution, contract or other writing
requiring legislative action shall be filed in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer not later than the close of business on the fifth day prior to the
Council meeting at which it is to be considered.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall assign a number to the document to be placed
on the agenda of the Council meeting for the Council's consideration. A written
statement in support or explanation of such item may be presented and should be
filed simultaneously. Such additional writing shall bear the same number as the
document to which it relates.
   (C)   All documents shall be tendered with an original and eight copies.
Upon receipt to the Clerk-Treasurer the Clerk-Treasurer shall retain the
original in the record; shall cause one copy of each such document matter to be
distributed to each Councilman, the Mayor and the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 7-5-12)
§ 30.16 ANNUAL ORDINANCE/RESOLUTION DIRECTORY.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain the annual ordinance/resolution
directory described herein, suitably indexed, as a permanent record of
documents tendered for Council action:
      (1)   Ordinance - Council.
      (2)   Resolution - Council.
      (3)   Resolution - Board of Works.
   (B)   All documents logged upon the annual ordinance/resolution directory
shall bear a prefix which identifies the document and the year in which the
document is presented and the number assigned to such document. The prefix for
each of the documents shall be:
      (1)   Ordinance   Ord.
      (2)   Resolution   Res.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 7-5-12)
§ 30.17 VOTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Ordinances.
      (1)   Ordinances shall be adopted based on the voting requirements set
forth by the Statutes of the State of Indiana, but in no case may an ordinance
be adopted with less than a majority vote of those elected officials entitled
to vote thereon.
      (2)   Ordinances shall be deemed adopted by the Council upon a favorable
vote on a motion to adopt after second reading. Any ordinance which fails to
receive a majority vote on first reading shall not be read a second time and
shall be deemed rejected.
      (3)   No ordinance may receive second reading or final approval at the
same meeting in which it is first introduced unless, by unanimous vote of the
Council present they agree to consider the ordinance on second reading, and,
such ordinance may not be adopted at that meeting unless it receives a
favorable vote of four members of the City Council. In all other cases second
reading shall occur at the next council meeting.
   (B)   Resolutions.
      (1)   Resolutions may be adopted on one reading only if such resolution
receives the unanimous affirmative vote of the Council, upon a motion to adopt
after first reading, at a meeting at which not less than four members of the
Council are present and voting.
      (2)   In all other cases resolutions are deemed adopted after an
affirmative majority vote upon a motion to adopt after second reading at the
next Council meeting.
         (a)   First reading. For all matters properly documented pursuant to
this section a reading is accomplished by verbally reading the number, title or
name of the document and its number together with the year. For all other
matters requiring a reading, such reading shall be a verbal verbatim reading of
the document without reference to its adoption or attestation clause.
         (b)   Second reading. Second reading shall mean a verbal reading by
name or title of the document only.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 7-5-12)
§ 30.18 AGENDA.
   (A)   All items requiring action by the Council shall be placed upon the
agenda no later than noon of the third day preceding the meeting at which such
action is to be taken. A copy of the agenda shall be provided to each Council
member, the Mayor and posted on the public bulletin board at the entrance to
City Hall at least 48 hours prior to the Council meeting. An item may be
brought up at the Council meeting if it is not on the agenda.
   (B)   The agenda shall prescribe the order of business which shall generally
be conducted in the following order:
      (1)   Call to order.
      (2)   Approval of previous minutes.
      (3)   Citizen comments.
      (4)   Council concerns.
      (5)   Old business.
      (6)   New business.
      (7)   Miscellaneous.
      (8)   Approval of claims.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 7-5-12)
§ 30.19 ROLL CALL VOTE.
   All votes of the Council shall be non-roll call unless a roll call vote is
requested by a Council member. In the event a roll call vote is requested the
Clerk-Treasurer shall call the roll on the question and record each Council
member's vote separately in the memorandum of the meeting.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 7-5-12)
§ 30.20 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules of procedure set forth in this subchapter may be suspended, and
action taken which would otherwise contravene this subchapter, upon a unanimous
affirmative vote of the Council at a meeting at which four Council members are
present and voting.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 7-5-12)
§ 30.21 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the City Council upon the request
of any two Council members. Such request must state in writing the purpose for
the meeting and must be signed by them.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 7-5-12)
§ 30.22 VETOED ORDINANCES.
   In the event of a veto by the Mayor of any ordinance or resolution passed by
the Council, such ordinance shall be resubmitted on the next regular or special
meeting agenda for consideration of the veto. No vetoed ordinance or resolution
shall take effect unless the Council shall repass the ordinance or resolution
by four affirmative votes.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 7-5-12)
§ 30.23 CONFLICTS CLAUSE.
   The rules of procedure set forth herein are to define the general procedures
for the City Council. These rules supersede all previous rules to the extent
they are in conflict therewith. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to
alter or amend any specific rule provided by law or statue.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 7-5-12)
§ 30.24 MEMORANDUM OF MEETING.
   A memorandum shall be kept at each City Council meeting and must include:
   (A)   Date, time and place of meeting;
   (B)   Members of the governing body recorded as present and absent;
   (C)   General substance of all matters proposed, discussed or decided; and
   (D)   A record of all votes taken (individual if there is a roll call vote).
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 7-5-12)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Clerk-Treasurer; duties
   
31.02   Mayor; duties
   
31.03   City Judge; establishment and duties
   
31.04   Nepotism and conflicts of interest
§ 31.01 CLERK-TREASURER; DUTIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-4-8-14, the Boonville Clerk-Treasurer may make
claim payments in advance of board allowance for the following kind of
expenses.
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll; and
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes.
   (B)   Each advance payment must be supported and accompanied by a fully
itemized claim.
   (C)   Either the Common Council or the City Board having jurisdiction over
the allowance of the claim shall review and allow the claim at its next regular
meeting or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
   (D)   Compensation for assumption of duties shall be as set forth from time
to time by Council ordinance.
(Ord. 1992-9, passed 7-16-92; Am. Ord. 2001-11, passed 9-13-01)
§ 31.02 MAYOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   From and after January 17, 1980, the Mayor of the City of Boonville,
Indiana, shall assume the duties and perform the services as co-ordinator of
all municipally owned utilities.
   (B)   Compensation for assumption of duties shall be as set forth from time
to time by Council ordinance.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 2001-11, passed 9-13-01)
§ 31.03 CITY JUDGE; ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of City Judge for the City of
Boonville, Indiana, effective January 1, 1964.
   (B)   The first incumbent to fill the office hereby created shall be elected
at annual city elections, in accordance with the provisions of law now or
hereafter in effect, for a term as provided by law, and said judge shall
exercise the powers and duties of such office as provided for under Chapter 129
of the Acts of the Indiana General Assembly of 1905, and as said law has been
amended and supplemented.
   (C)   No person shall be elected to the office of City Judge who shall not
have been duly admitted to practice law by the Supreme Court of Indiana.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the proper officers of the City of Boonville,
Indiana, to include in the annual budget of said city each and every year, the
amount of salary fixed by ordinance for City Judge, as by law now proved, and
necessary expenses of the office.
(Ord. 1963-1, passed 3-19-63)
§ 31.04 NEPOTISM AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Nepotism.
      (1)   The city finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy
of conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the City of Boonville
and in contracting with the city in order to continue to be able to provide
local government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws
effective July 1, 2012.
      (2)   On July 1, 2012, the City of Boonville shall have a nepotism and a
contracting with a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of
I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and implementation will begin.
      (3)   The City of Boonville’s nepotism policy is hereby established
effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C.
36-1-20.2, including all future supplements and amendments thereto, which
become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set
forth herein.
      (4)   The City of Boonville Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy
is hereby established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum
requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements
and amendments thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a
part hereof as if fully set out herein.
      (5)   The city finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are more stringent or detailed and that
more detailed may be necessary.
      (6)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the city are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
      (7)   Failure to abide by or cooperated with the implementation,
compliance and certifications connected with the nepotism policy and/or
contracting with a unit policy is a violation and may result in the discipline,
including termination of an employee or a transfer from the direct fine of
supervision or other curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of the nepotism policy or
contracting with a unit policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
      (8)   Copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21, as supplemented and amended,
are on file in the Office of The Clerk/Treasurer for the City of Boonville, for
public inspection, as required by I.C. 6-1-5-4.
   (B)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the conflict of interest policy is to
protect this tax-exempt organization's (organization) interest when it is
contemplating entering into a transaction or arrangement that might benefit the
private interest of an officer or director of the organization or might result
in a possible excess benefit transaction. This policy is intended to supplement
but not replace any applicable state and federal laws governing conflict of
interest applicable to nonprofit and charitable organizations.
      (2)   Definitions.
         FINANCIAL INTEREST.
            1.   A person has a financial interest if the person has, directly
or indirectly, through business, investment, or family:
               a.   An ownership or investment interest in any entity with
which the organization has a transaction or arrangement;
               b.   A compensation arrangement with the organization or with
any entity or individual with which the organization has a transaction or
arrangement; or
               c.   A potential ownership or investment interest in, or
compensation arrangement with, any entity or individual with which the
organization is negotiating a transaction or arrangement. Compensation includes
direct and indirect remuneration as well as gifts or favors that are not
insubstantial.
            2.   A financial interest is not necessarily a conflict of
interest. Under division (B)(3)(b), a person who has a financial interest may
have a conflict of interest only if the appropriate governing board or
committee decides that a conflict of interest exists.
         INTERESTED PERSON. Any director, principal officer, or member of a
committee with governing board delegated powers, who has a direct or indirect
financial interest, as defined herein, is an INTERESTED PERSON. If a person is
an INTERESTED PERSON with respect to any entity in the health care system of
which the organization is a part, he or she is an interested person with
respect to all entities in the health care system.
      (3)   Procedures.
         (a)   Duty to disclose. In connection with any actual or possible
conflict of interest, an interested person must disclose the existence of the
financial interest and be given the opportunity to disclose all material facts
to the directors and members of committees with governing board delegated
powers considering the proposed transaction or arrangement.
         (b)   Determining whether a conflict of interest exists. After
disclosure of the financial interest and all material facts, and after any
discussion with the interested person, he/she shall leave the governing board
or committee meeting while the determination of a conflict of interest is
discussed and voted upon. The remaining board or committee members shall decide
if a conflict of interest exists.
         (c)   Procedures for addressing the conflict of interest.
            1.   An interested person may make a presentation at the governing
board or committee meeting, but after the presentation, he/she shall leave the
meeting during the discussion of, and the vote on, the transaction or
arrangement involving the possible conflict of interest.
            2.   The chairperson of the governing board or committee shall, if
appropriate, appoint a disinterested person or committee to investigate
alternatives to the proposed transaction or arrangement.
            3.   After exercising due diligence, the governing board or
committee shall determine whether the organization can obtain with reasonable
efforts a more advantageous transaction or arrangement from a person or entity
that would not give rise to a conflict of interest.
            4.   If a more advantageous transaction or arrangement is not
reasonably possible under circumstances not producing a conflict of interest,
the governing board or committee shall determine by a majority vote of the
disinterested directors whether the transaction or arrangement is in the
organization's best interest, for its own benefit, and whether it is fair and
reasonable. In conformity with the above determination it shall make its
decision as to whether to enter into the transaction or arrangement.
         (d)   Instructions for Form 1023-25; violations of the conflicts of
interest policy.
            1.   If the governing board or committee has reasonable cause to
believe a member has failed to disclose actual or possible conflicts of
interest, it shall inform the member of the basis for such belief and afford
the member an opportunity to explain the alleged failure to disclose.
            2.   If, after hearing the member's response and after making
further investigation as warranted by the circumstances, the governing board or
committee determines the member has failed to disclose an actual or possible
conflict of interest, it shall take appropriate disciplinary and corrective
action.
      (4)   Records of proceedings. The minutes of the governing board and all
committees with board delegated powers shall contain:
         (a)   The names of the persons who disclosed or otherwise were found
to have a financial interest in connection with an actual or possible conflict
of interest, the nature of the financial interest, any action taken to
determine whether a conflict of interest was present, and the governing board's
or committee's decision as to whether a conflict of interest in fact existed.
         (b)   The names of the persons who were present for discussions and
votes relating to the transaction or arrangement, the content of the
discussion, including any alternatives to the proposed transaction or
arrangement, and a record of any votes taken in connection with the
proceedings.
      (5)   Compensation.
         (a)   A voting member of the governing board who receives
compensation, directly or indirectly, from the organization for services is
precluded from voting on matters pertaining to that member's compensation.
         (b)   A voting member of any committee whose jurisdiction includes
compensation matters and who receives compensation, directly or indirectly,
from the organization for services is precluded from voting on matters
pertaining to that member's compensation.
         (c)   No voting member of the governing board or any committee whose
jurisdiction includes compensation matters and who receives compensation,
directly or indirectly, from the organization, either individually or
collectively, is prohibited from providing information to any committee
regarding compensation.
      (6)   Annual statements. Each director, principal officer and member of a
committee with governing board delegated powers shall annually sign a statement
which affirms such person:
         (a)   Has received a copy of the conflicts of interest policy;
         (b)   Has read and understands the policy;
         (c)   Has agreed to comply with the policy; and
         (d)   Understands the organization is charitable and in order to
maintain its federal tax exemption it must engage primarily in activities which
accomplish one or more of its tax- exempt purposes.
      (7)   Periodic reviews. To ensure the organization operates in a manner
consistent with charitable purposes and does not engage in activities that
could jeopardize its tax-exempt status, periodic reviews shall be conducted.
The periodic reviews shall, at a minimum, include the following subjects:
         (a)   Whether compensation arrangements and benefits are reasonable,
based on competent survey information, and the result of arm's length
bargaining.
         (b)   Whether partnerships, joint ventures, and arrangements with
management organizations conform to the organization's written policies, are
properly recorded, reflect reasonable investment or payments for goods and
services, further charitable purposes and do not result in inurement,
impermissible private benefit or in an excess benefit transaction.
      (8)   Use of outside experts. When conducting the periodic reviews as
provided for in division (B)(7), the organization may, but need not, use
outside advisors. If outside experts are used, their use shall not relieve the
governing board of its responsibility for ensuring periodic reviews are
conducted.
(Ord. 2012-12, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2018-2, passed 1-25-18; Am. Ord. 2021-
11, passed 5-4-21)
CHAPTER 32: COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section.
   
32.01   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
32.02   Department of Development
   
32.03   Department of Aviation
   
32.04   Plan Commission
   
32.05   Volunteer Fire Department
   
32.06   Department of Redevelopment
   32.07   Redevelopment Authority
   32.08   Department of Storm Water Management
§ 32.01 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3, there is hereby recreated
the Boonville Department of Parks and Recreation.
   (B)   (1)   The Park and Recreation Board shall be composed of:
         (a)   Four (4) members appointed by the Mayor on the basis of their
interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation. No more than two (2) members
shall be of the same political party.
         (b)   One (1) ex officio member who is a member of and appointed by
the Library District Board.
      (2)   The Library District Board shall fill any vacancies of their ex
officio member. Ex officio board members have all the rights of regular
members, including the right to vote.
   (C)   (1)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of the members
initially appointed shall be:
         (a)   One (1) member for a term of one (1) year.
         (b)   One (1) member for a term of two (2) years.
         (c)   One (1) member for a term of three (3) years.
         (d)   One (1) member for a term of four (4) years.
         (e)   The Library Board appointee shall serve a term of four (4)
years.
      (2)   As a term of a Mayor appointed member expires, each new appointment
shall be made by the Mayor for a term of four (4) years. All terms expire on
the first Monday in January, but a member shall continue in office until a
successor is appointed. If an appointment for a new term is not made by the
Mayor by the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If
a vacancy occurs, the Mayor shall appoint a new member for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (D)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
president and vice president. The vice president shall have authority to act as
the president of the Board during the absence or disability of the president.
The Board may select a secretary either from within or without its own
membership.
   (E)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have the powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-10-3.
   (F)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of City government as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
(Ord. 1990-13, passed 5-24-90)
Cross-reference:
   Parks and Recreation, see
Chapter 93
§ 32.02 DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created pursuant to state statutes a department of
development, which shall be under the control of a commission of five (5)
members hereby also created, such commission to be designated and known as the
Boonville Development Commission for the City of Boonville, Indiana.
   (B)   (1)   The members of said Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor
of the City of Boonville, Indiana, as follows:
         (a)   Three (3) of the members so appointed shall be selected and
appointed by the Mayor
         (b)   One (1) of the members so appointed shall be nominated by the
County Council of Warrick County, Indiana, the county in which the city is
located.
         (c)   One (1) of the members so appointed shall be nominated by the
Common Council of the City of Boonville, Indiana.
      (2)   Upon adoption of this section, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
promptly notify:
         (a)   The County Council of Warrick County, Indiana;
         (b)   The Common Council of the City of Boonville, Indiana; and
         (c)   The Mayor of the City of Boonville, Indiana, of the adoption of
this section and the necessity for each of them to nominate the members of said
Commission.
      (3)   The nomination made by the County Council and the Common Council
shall be transmitted to the Mayor in writing within fifteen (15) days after the
final passage of this section.
      (4)   Each of such selectees and nominees shall be appointed by the Mayor
within ten (10) days after receiving such nominations.
      (5)   In the event that the County Council of Warrick County, Indiana or
the Common Council of the City of Boonville, Indiana, shall fail to make a
nomination within the time specified herein, the Mayor may select and appoint a
person without such a nomination.
   (C)   The Boonville Development Commissioners shall take office upon their
appointment and their terms shall run the following number of years from
February 1, following the original appointment: the commissioner selected and
appointed by the Mayor: two (2) members - three (3) years and one (1) member -
one (1) year; the commissioner nominated by the Common Council - two (2) years;
the commissioner nominated by the County Council - one (1) year. At the
expiration of the respective terms of each of the Commissioners originally
appointed, their respective successors shall be nominated and selected in the
same manner as the original appointee and each of the nominees shall be
appointed by the Mayor within ten (10) days after receiving such nominations
and each succeeding member shall serve for a term of four (4) years. In the
event that the County Council or the Common Council shall fail to make a
nomination within the time specified herein, the Mayor may select and appoint a
person without such a nomination. In the event any person appointed as
Commissioner shall fail to qualify within ten (10) days after the mailing to
him of the notice of his appointment, or if any member after qualifying shall
die, resign or vacate such office, or be removed, a new member shall be chosen
and appointed to fill such vacancy in the same manner as provided for the
member in respect to whom such vacancy occurs, and the member so chosen and
appointed shall serve for the remainder of the vacated term. The Commissioners
shall hold over after the expiration of their terms until their respective
successors have been duly appointed and have qualified. Such Commissioners
shall receive no salaries but shall be entitled to reimbursement for any
expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (D)   The Boonville Development Commission shall have all of the powers and
duties created in state statutes, and shall have the right to exercise all
powers set forth therein.
(Ord. 1973-9, passed 9-20-73)
§ 32.03 DEPARTMENT OF AVIATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Department of Aviation for the City of
Boonville, Indiana, by reason of the necessity thereof as a result of the
growth, expansion and industrial development of the City of Boonville, Indiana.
   (B)   Aviation shall be one of the executive departments of the City of
Boonville, Indiana, and shall be under the control of a Board of four (4)
members, to be known as the Board of Aviation Commissioners.
   (C)   The members of the Board of Aviation Commissioners shall be appointed
by the Mayor and not more than two (2) of the members of such Board shall be of
the same political party and said members shall serve without compensation, but
shall be paid their actual expenses, not to exceed One Thousand, Two Hundred
($1,200.00) Dollars per annum for the entire board.
   (D)   (1)   The term of office of such Board of Aviation Commissioners shall
hold office respective as follows, from and after twelve o'clock noon on the
first Monday in January of the year of their appointment:
         (a)   One (1) for the term of one (l) year;
         (b)   One (1) for the term of two (2) years;
         (c)   One (1) for the term of three (3) years, and one (1) for a term
of four years.
      (2)   Annually thereafter, on the expiration of the respective terms
aforesaid, the chief executive officer shall appoint a Commissioner or
commissioners to fill the vacancies caused by such expiration, and the
commissioner or commissioners so appointed shall hold office for a term of four
(4) years, and until their successors shall be appointed and qualified, and if
any vacancy occurs in such board by resignation or otherwise, the chief
executive officer shall appoint one or more Commissioners for the residue of
the term or terms. The chief executive officer of any such municipality may, at
any time, remove any Commissioner from office, but only upon his filing in
writing with the Clerk-Treasurer or other officer performing duties similar to
that of Clerk Treasurer in municipalities having no Clerk Treasurer his reasons
for such removal.
   (E)   The Board of Aviation Commissioners shall have the power and authority
as authorized by the Ordinances of the City of Boonville and by the laws and
regulations of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 1964-10, passed 7-2-64)
§ 32.04 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   There shall be and is hereby created a Plan Commission for the City of
Boonville, Indiana, which shall be and is hereby designated and known as the
Boonville City Plan Commission.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall consist of seven members, three of whom
shall be appointed by the Common Council from persons serving in the City
government. The Mayor shall appoint four members of said Plan Commission and
such appointees shall be designated as “Citizens Members.” All such citizens
members shall be resident of said city and shall not hold office in the City
government at the time of their appointment and not more than two of such
citizens members shall be members of the same political party.
   (C)   The term of the appointed members appointed by the Common Council,
from the city government shall be co-extensive with the term of office to which
he, she or they have been elected or appointed unless the Common Council at its
first regular meeting of each year appoints different members from the City
government to serve on said Plan Commission.
   (D)   The Plan Commission is established pursuant to and shall have all the
powers and duties as provided by Chapter 174 of the Acts of the General
Assembly of Indiana, 1947 and all acts amendatory thereof and supplemental
thereto.
   (E)   As soon as practicable after the adoption of this section, the Plan
Commission so appointed shall prepare a master plan and shall give notice and
hold a public hearing on the plan and a proposed ordinance for its enforcement
as provided for by law.
(Ord. 1960-3, passed 7-5-60)
§ 32.05 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The poll and real and personal property to an amount, in the
aggregate, not exceeding five hundred ($500.00) Dollars, of any active
volunteer fireman of the Boonville Volunteer Fire Department shall be exempt
from the payment of City Taxes, as provided by Acts, 1939, Chapter 163, amended
by Acts, 1963, Chapter 224, Section 1, page 306.
   (B)   The active volunteer firemen of the Volunteer Fire Department of the
City of Boonville who shall be entitled to the provisions hereof shall not
exceed Twenty-Five (25).
   (C)   The volunteer firemen of the Boonville Volunteer Fire Department who
may desire to avail himself of the provisions hereof shall have performed the
services of a fireman of the Boonville Volunteer Fire Department for a period
of at least one (1) year prior to the time when his property was last assessed
for taxation.
   (D)   Any active volunteer fireman who may desire to avail himself of the
provisions of this act shall, at any time, after January 1, 1965, file for the
same as provided by Acts, 1939, Chapter 163, Section 2, as Amended by Acts of
1963, Chapter 224, Section 2, Page 306 of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 1964-8, passed 6-16-64)
§ 32.06 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Common Council of the City of Boonville, Indiana, now deems it to
be in the best interest of the City and its citizens to afford a maximum
opportunity for rehabilitation, redevelopment and/or economic development of
areas by private enterprise and the City by establishing a Department of
Redevelopment.
   (B)   The Common Council hereby establishes a Department of Redevelopment to
be known as the "Boonville Redevelopment Commission" to be controlled by a
board of five (5) members (the "Redevelopment Commission") with one (1) non-
voting advisor pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-6.1. The non-voting advisor is not a
member of the Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act, all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the City will constitute a special taxing district to be known as
the City of Boonville Redevelopment District (the "Redevelopment District") for
the purpose of levying and collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment
and economic development purposes as provided in the Act. The Common Council
finds and determines that all of the taxable property within the Redevelopment
District will be considered to be benefitted by the redevelopment projects and
economic development projects carried out under the Act to the extent of the
special taxes levied under the Act.
   (D)   (1)   Pursuant to the Act, the Common Council shall appoint the two
(2) members of the Redevelopment Commission and the Mayor of the City shall
appoint three (3) members of the Redevelopment Commission.
      (2)   The Mayor of the City shall also appoint the non-voting advisor who
satisfies the requirements of division (E) hereof.
   (E)   Members of the Redevelopment Commission shall be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and must be residents of the City. The non-voting advisor
must be a member of the school board of a school corporation that includes all
or part of the Redevelopment District. Members shall take and subscribe an oath
of office before beginning the duties thereof and shall execute a bond as set
forth in I.C. 36-7-14-7.
   (F)   Each member shall serve for one (1) year from the first day of January
after his/her appointment and until his/her successor is appointed and has
qualified, except that the original members shall serve from the date of their
appointment until the first day of January in the second year after their
appointment. If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the same
manner as the original member, and the successor shall serve for the remainder
of the vacated term. The non-voting advisor serves for a term of two (2) years
and until a successor is appointed.
   (G)   No member of the Redevelopment Commission shall be entitled to any
salary, per diem allowance or other compensation, except reimbursement for
expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of such member’s duties.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-5-03; Am. Ord. 2015-11, passed 11-16-15)
§ 32.07 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Common Council of the City now deems it to be in the best interest
of the City and its citizens to establish and create a redevelopment authority
as a separate body corporate and politic and as an instrumentality of the City
with all of the powers under the Act to be known as the "City of Boonville
Redevelopment Authority" (the "Redevelopment Authority"), which Redevelopment
Authority is hereby created.
   (B)   Pursuant to the Act, the Redevelopment Authority shall be governed by
a Board of Directors (the "Board") composed of three (3) members, each of whom
must be residents of the City. The Mayor of the City shall appoint the members
of the Board. Members of the Board shall serve for a term of three (3) years
and may be reappointed for subsequent terms. The Mayor shall fill any vacancy
on the Board by appointing a new member for the remainder of the vacated term.
Any Board member may be removed for cause by the Mayor. Board members shall not
receive a salary, and no profit or money of the Redevelopment Authority shall
inure to the benefit of a member.
   (C)   Upon their appointment by the Mayor, the members of the Board shall
take and subscribe an oath of office under I.C. 5-4-1, which shall be endorsed
upon the certificate of appointment and filed with the records of the
Redevelopment Authority.
   (D)   The Board shall hold its meetings and carry out all of its functions,
powers and purposes in accordance with and pursuant to the Act, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-3-19)
§ 32.08 DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Adoption of Act. The Council hereby adopts the provisions of the Act,
I.C. 8-1.5-5, as amended, entitled "Department of Storm Water Management", so
as to make the Act and any and all amendments thereto effective and operative
in and to the City.
   (B)   Creation and purpose of Department. Pursuant to the Act, the
Department is hereby created for the purpose of planning, designing, and
implementing capital improvements; conducting operation and maintenance
activities for the Department in fulfilling the storm water requirements of the
City; and complying with all federal and State of Indiana laws and regulations
regarding storm water to the extent applicable to the City. The Department
shall have full power and authority to take any and all actions authorized and
provided for in the Act.
   (C)   Creation of special taxing district. There is hereby created, in
accordance with the Act, a special taxing district to be known as the City of
Boonville, Indiana Storm Water Special Taxing District ("City Storm Water
District") which shall include all of the territory within the corporate limits
of the City. The City Storm Water District is created for the purpose of
providing for the collection and disposal of storm water of the City Storm
Water District in a manner that protects the public health and welfare and for
the purpose of levying special benefit taxes and/or user fees for purposes of
storm water collection and disposal. The City Storm Water District shall be
funded through one or more means available to storm water utilities set forth
in the Act.
   (D)   Department governed by members of Works Board.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-3, the Department shall be governed and
controlled by the Works Board. The members of the Works Board shall serve as
the Board of Directors (for the Department). The terms of the members of the
Board of Directors are the same as the terms of the members of the Works Board.
      (2)   The Board of Directors shall have jurisdiction over the collection
and disposal of storm water within the City Storm Water District. The Board of
Directors shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by Indiana law,
including the Act and I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(a) and 8-1.5-5-6.
      (3)   The Mayor may remove a member of the Board of Directors at any time
when, in the judgment and sole discretion of the Mayor, it is in the best
interest of the Department.
      (4)   No member of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to any
salary, per diem allowance, or other compensation, except reimbursement for
expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of such director's duties.
      (5)   Consistent with I.C. 8-1.5-5-7, the Board of Directors are hereby
authorized to establish the initial rates and charges for the properties within
the City Storm Water District. The Council hereby approves the initial rates,
provided such rates do not exceed $5 for each parcel of property primarily used
for residential or agricultural purposes and $10 for each parcel of property
primarily used for non-residential purposes.
      (6)   Consistent with I.C. 8-1.5-5-7(c), the Council hereby requests that
the Board of Directors seek collection of the user fees through a charge
appearing on the semi-annual property tax payment of the affected property
owner.
   (E)   Annual budget. The Board shall prepare a budget for the operation of
the Department on an annual basis, which budget shall be subject to approval by
the Council. Any issuance of bonds or other funding methods for making capital
improvements by the Department shall be approved by the Council, in its
discretion, to the extent provided by the Act.
(Ord. 2019-14, passed 12-5-19)
CHAPTER 33: CITY POLICIES
Section.
Long-Term Property Leasing.
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Lease execution
   
33.03   Illegal activity prohibited
   
33.04   Qualification cessation; termination
   
33.05   Zoning compliance
   
33.06   Application procedure
   
33.07   Renewal
   
33.08   Competing applications.
Asset Capitalization.
   
33.20   Purpose
   
33.21   Classification of assets
   
33.22   Capitalization thresholds
   
33.23   Capital expense and improvement; repair and maintenance
   
33.24   Reported value of capital assets
   
33.25   Estimated useful lives of depreciable assets
   
33.26   Depreciation method/convention
   
33.27   Retirements
   
33.28   Responsibility for property record maintenance
   
33.29   Assets purchased with federal grant funds
   
33.30   Property control
Record Keeping; Investigations.
   
33.40   Right of taxpayers
   
33.41   Procedure establishment
   
33.42   Reports; due dates and copies
   
33.43   Fire and Police departments' reports; fees
Credit Cards
   
33.50   Procedures for city-issued credit cards
Identity Theft Prevention
   
33.60   Risk assessment
   
33.61   Detection (red flags)
   
33.62   Response
   
33.63   Personal information security procedures
Online Banking
   
33.70   Electronic funds transfers
Responsible Bidding Practices and Submission Requirements
   
33.80   Bid submission requirements
   
33.81   Submissions from contractors
   
33.82   Validity of pre-qualification classification
   
33.83   Incomplete submissions by bidders
   
33.84   Responsive and responsible bidder determination
   
33.85   Certified payroll
   
33.86   Public records
   
33.87   Penalties for false, deceptive, or fraudulent statements/information
   
33.88   Conflict and applicable law
Uniform Internal Control
   
33.90   Uniform Internal Control Standards
Materiality of Variances, Losses, Shortages
   33.95   Policy on materiality of variances, losses, shortages, or thefts and
process for reporting
Cross-reference:
   Land Usage, see
Title XV
   Personnel, see
Chapter 34
**** LONG-TERM PROPERTY LEASING ****
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DELIVERY OF NOTICE. In all cases where notice, other than published notice,
is required to be given, it shall be given either by personal delivery to the
affected party or by Certified United States Mail, return receipt requested.
   INSURANCE. Comprehensive general liability insurance providing coverage for
bodily injury and property damage in such amount as may be fixed by the lease,
and, where appropriate, such other INSURANCE as is necessary to indemnify for
loss by fire of a building and its contents and other customarily insured
against perils.
   LESSOR BODY. Either the Common Council or a statutory Board of the City if
the real property at issue is held in the name of, or is administered by, that
Board.
   LONG TERM LEASE. Any written agreement between the City of Boonville or its
Boards, and a qualified lessee, which leases real property for a period of time
fixed in excess of six (6) months.
   PROOF OF STATUS. Proof by such corporation of its qualified status shall be
adequate to establish that it meets the definition of a qualified lessee.
   PUBLISHED NOTICE. In all cases requiring published notice of any event, such
publication shall be in a local newspaper of general circulation in the City,
which notice shall contain a description, by common location, of the property
proposed to be leased; a recitation of the proposed use to which the property
will be put; the name of the proposed lessee; and, fixing a date for a hearing
on the proposed lease together with the last date for filing competing lease
applications on the same property.
   QUALIFIED LESSEE. Any Indiana not-for-profit corporation organized under any
Indiana not-for-profit corporation act, which is in good standing and exempt
from Federal income taxation pursuant to Section 501 of the Internal Revenue
Code, 29 USC § 501.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 2-18-88)
§ 33.02 LEASE EXECUTION.
   (A)   The City, or a Board, may lease to a qualified lessee, such real
property as may be leased and as deemed expedient by the particular body. Such
lease may be either for a fee or at no consideration, except that all leases
shall require the lessee to insure, at its cost, the leased property. In all
cases, the City and where appropriate, a Board, shall be named as insureds on
such policy or policies of insurance. Before execution of any such lease, the
City or other lessor body shall conduct a public hearing on the application to
lease and determine whether the proposed lease is in the best interest of the
City or lessor body.
   (B)   The lessor body to whom the lease is proposed shall determine the
terms and conditions of any lease under this subchapter. Such lease may include
an option or options to renew upon such terms and conditions as the lessor body
shall determine are in the best interest of the public.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 2-18-88)
§ 33.03 ILLEGAL ACTIVITY PROHIBITED.
   No lessee shall use such leased property for any purpose prohibited by law,
its corporate charter, in violation of any valid restrictive covenants running
with the land or in violation of any ordinance of the City. Upon proof of any
such, prohibited use, the lessor body shall give notice to the lessee of such
violation, and conduct a hearing to determine if the lease should be
terminated. In the event that such lease is terminated, possession of the
leased property shall immediately revert to the lessor body.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 2-18-88)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 33.04 QUALIFICATION CESSATION; TERMINATION.
   In the event that a lessee ceases to be a qualified lessee during the term
of the lease, upon notice from the lessor body, the lease shall terminate and
possession of such property shall revert to the lessor body, unless, within
thirty (30) days after notice to such lessee of such termination, under this
section, it produces adequate proof that it has regained its qualified status.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 2-18-88)
§ 33.05 ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   In the event that the use for which the lessee proposes to acquire the
property is prohibited by any zoning ordinance of the City, such lease may be
executed upon condition that the lessee shall, within one hundred twenty days
(120) thereafter, take the necessary steps to acquire proper variances, use
exceptions or rezoning. In the event that such variance, use exception or
rezoning is not acquired by the lessee by the end of such period, the lease
shall terminate. During such period, the lessee shall do no act in violation of
such subchapter. Where necessary the lessor body may be a co-petitioner for
such variance, use exception or rezoning, however, all costs, fees or expenses
therefore shall be borne by the lessee.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 2-18-88)
§ 33.06 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any corporation seeking to lease real property under this subchapter
shall:
      (1)   File an application for a lease, on forms provided by the Clerk-
Treasurer, with the Clerk-Treasurer of the City.
      (2)   Provide all documentation necessary to establish its qualified
status.
      (3)   Pay to the Clerk-Treasurer a fee of Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00),
as a processing fee and for the cost of publication of the notice required by
this subchapter.
      (4)   Attend the public hearing on its application for a lease.
   (B)   Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall publish the notice required by this subchapter and set the
application for a public hearing on the agenda of the appropriate lessor body.
However, such public hearing may not be set less than ten (10) days after
publication of the notice, and, in the event there are competing applications,
shall be on the date as set by the presiding officer of the lessor body.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 2-18-88)
§ 33.07 RENEWAL.
   In the event that any lease executed by a lessor body shall provide for a
period, or periods, of renewal, published notice of a public hearing regarding
such renewal shall be given at least ten (10) days prior to the date of a
public hearing to consider such renewal. The cost of such notice shall be borne
by the lessee.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 2-18-88)
§ 33.08 COMPETING APPLICATIONS; PLAN PROVISION.
   (A)   No competing application may be considered by the lessor body unless
it was filed on or before the date set out in the published notice regarding
the original application or any renewal thereof. In the event a competing
application is filed timely, such application shall be heard at the same time
as the original application for the lease or any request for renewal thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Any building proposed to be erected by the lessee or
improvements to the real property, shall be first approved by the lessor body,
and, in addition thereto, all such plans and specifications for such building
or improvement must be approved by all necessary State, County and City
Agencies prior to construction thereof.
      (2)   Copies of “as built” drawings, blueprints and other like documents
shall be provided to the City upon completion of such construction.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 2-18-88)
**** ASSET CAPITALIZATION ****
§ 33.20 PURPOSE.
   This capital asset policy shall become effective on January 1, 2020. The
purpose of this policy is to facilitate the preparation of financial statements
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-16-21)
§ 33.21 CLASSIFICATION OF ASSETS.
   Capital assets are personal property and real property and other assets used
in the operations of the government that have an expected estimated useful life
beyond a single reporting period. Capital assets are to include any item that
falls into one of the following categories:
   (A)   Land.
   (B)   Improvements to land.
   (C)   Buildings.
   (D)   Furnishings and equipment.
   (E)   Vehicles.
   (F)   Computer software.
   (G)   General infrastructure.
   (H)   Construction in progress.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-16-21)
§ 33.22 CAPITALIZATION THRESHOLDS.
   (A)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes, an
item must at the time of acquisition, be valued for accounting and financial
reporting purpose at a unit value greater than or equal to $10,000 (also $5,000
if funded through a federal grant). All vehicles are to be included and
capitalized regardless of acquisition value; this increased capitalization
threshold is to be applied prospectively starting January 1, 2021.
   (B)   Assets shall remain as part of the property record until they are
retired, sold, traded, or otherwise disposed of regardless of their net book
value amount.
   (C)   The capitalization threshold for the following classes of assets shall
be:
      (1)   Land: n/a.
      (2)   Improvements to land: $25,000.
      (3)   Buildings: $50,000.
      (4)   Furnishings and equipment and vehicles: $10,000.
      (5)   Federal grant furnishings and equipment: $5,000.
      (6)   Computer software: $10,000.
      (7)   General infrastructure: $100,00.
      (8)   Construction in progress: n/a.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-16-21)
§ 33.23 CAPITAL EXPENSE AND IMPROVEMENT; REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   There is an inherent difference between the term's capital and
expense. Capital is defined as an asset or improvement to an asset that is at
or above the stated capitalization threshold for its particular classification.
   (B)   A capital asset or capital asset improvement may increase capacity,
efficiency, or extend the estimated useful life.
   (C)   An expense activity merely maintains, restores, or repairs an asset to
the original service potential but does not necessarily improve the asset.
   (D)   Addendum of definitions and examples.
      (1)   Definitions (sampling).
         (a)   Capital outlay includes spending to acquire capital assets such
as equipment, vehicles, buildings, or infrastructure assets and for
improvements that increase capacity, efficiency, or extend estimated useful
life beyond prior estimated life.
         (b)   A change in capacity increases the level of service provided by
the asset so the expenditure is capitalized.
         (c)   A change in efficiency either increases the level of service an
asset provides or allows for maintaining the same level of service at a lower
cost so the expenditure is capitalized.
         (d)   An extended estimated useful life will result from a significant
alternation, structural change, or improvement so expenditure is capitalized.
         (e)   For improvements to buildings and general infrastructure and the
utility infrastructure of Water and Sewer and Storm Departments, a capital
outlay must be significant and increase capacity, increase efficiency, or
extend the asset's estimated useful life beyond what was originally estimated
for the expenditure to be considered for capitalization.
         (f)   An improvement to land is any type of alteration to land to make
it more useable with assets that have a limited useful life that can be
depreciated - see examples.
         (g)   A licensed vehicle is a conveyance used for transporting people
or goods - see examples.
         (h)   General infrastructure includes assets that normally are
stationary in nature and can be preserved for a greater number of years - see
examples.
      (2)   Examples (sampling).
         (a)   While substantial repairs and renovations shall be reviewed for
potential capitalization, it is anticipated that most will be expensed in the
current year. These expenses often merely restore the asset to its original
service potential but do not necessarily improve the asset.
         (b)   Common building expense items include interior and exterior
painting, re- carpeting, plumbing repairs and replacement, HVAC upgrades, and
electrical work. While many of these expenses can be substantial, there is
generally no increased capacity or efficiency; hence, these costs are expensed
in the current year.
         (c)   An addition to a building provides increased square footage;
hence, the capacity is increased and the capital outlay is capitalized.
         (d)   A roof replacement does not increase building capacity or
efficiency; hence, cost of replacement should be expensed.
         (e)   A building restoration, while costly, may merely restore the
building to its original service capacity; hence, the restoration cost is
expensed.
         (f)   Widening a road with additional lanes increases capacity and;
hence, the capital outlay is capitalized.
         (g)   With regard to vehicles and equipment, to replace a truck
transmission is a significant repair and expense; however, the truck is merely
restored to good working order and is not improved so the expenditure is
expensed.
         (h)   Improvements to land include such items as paved parking areas,
fences, outdoor lighting, playground equipment, water fountains, retaining
walls, paths and walkways, and small structures like sheds.
         (i)   Licensed vehicles include passenger autos, trucks (light,
medium, heavy), sport utility vehicles, railroad vehicles, tractors,
bulldozers, buses, forklift trucks, off-road vehicles, motorcycles, watercraft,
etc.
         (j)   General infrastructure includes roads, rights-of-way, bridges,
tunnels, drainage systems, dams, streetlights, traffic signals, sidewalks, and
improved alleys.
         (k)   Water and sewer systems include treatment facilities, pump
stations, lift stations, water distribution piping, sanitary sewer collection
piping and all assets used in the provision of water and the treatment of
waste.
   (E)   With regard to improvements to buildings and general infrastructure, a
capital outlay must be significant and increase capacity, increase efficiency,
or extend the asset's estimated useful life beyond what was originally
estimated.
   (F)   A change in capacity increases the level of service provided by the
asset. A change in efficiency either increases the level of service asset or
the change maintains the same level of service at a lower cost. For example, an
addition to a building provides increased square footage; hence, the capacity
is increased, and the capital outlay is capitalized. Widening a road with
additional lanes increases capacity; hence, the capital outlay is capitalized.
An extended estimated useful life will result from a significant alternation,
structural change, or improvement.
   (G)   While substantial repairs and renovations shall be reviewed for
potential capitalization, it is anticipated that most will be expensed in the
current year. These expenses often merely restore the asset to its original
service potential but do not necessarily improve the asset.
   (H)   All land, including rights-of-way, shall be capitalized at the time of
acquisition. If donated, it shall be recorded at its estimated acquisition
value.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-16-21)
§ 33.24 REPORTED VALUE OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   Annual updating and reporting. Capital assets shall be recorded at
historical cost which includes any ancillary charges necessary to place the
asset into its intended location and condition for use. Ancillary charges
include, for example, freight and transportation charges, site preparation
costs, and professional fees. Engineering costs (internal and external) include
related preliminary project and environmental studies; project estimating,
design, and planning (drawings and specifications); and construction
engineering, construction management, construction inspection and project
payment. However, no such costs shall be capitalized unless they can be
directly identified to a specific capital asset and have been incurred
subsequent to the determination that the capital asset will, in fact, be
acquired (the costs of a feasibility study are not capitalizable, nor are other
costs related to the project occurring prior to its completion). Donated
capital assets are recorded at the value that would be necessary to acquire
them.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-16-21)
§ 33.25 ESTIMATED USEFUL LIVES OF DEPRECIABLE ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets have estimated useful lives extending beyond a single
reporting period (one year) and are depreciated using the straight-line method
with no allowance for salvage value. The estimated useful lives currently used
were developed with the input of knowledgeable staff and reflect our
government's experience with these assets:
      (1)   Land: non-depreciable.
      (2)   Improvements to land: 20 years.
      (3)   Storm sirens: ten years.
      (4)   Buildings: 50 years.
      (5)   Furnishings and equipment: five years.
      (6)   Vehicles:
         (a)   Autos: five years.
         (b)   Light trucks: ten years.
         (c)   Heavy trucks: 15 years.
         (d)   Fire trucks: 30 years.
         (e)   Boats: five years.
      (7)   General infrastructure: 50 years.
      (8)   Streets: 50 years.
      (9)   Streetlights: 20 years.
      (10)   Water distribution: 50 years.
      (11)   Sanitary sewer waste collection: 50 years.
      (12)   Storm damage: 50 years.
      (13)   Waste treatment plant: 25 years.
      (14)   Computer software: five years.
   (B)   Any future changes to estimated useful lives will be applied
prospectively.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-16-21)
§ 33.26 DEPRECIATION METHOD/CONVENTION.
   Depreciation will be calculated using the straight-line method and full-year
convention. No salvage value or residual value will be recognized.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-16-21)
§ 33.27 RETIREMENTS.
   (A)   Retirements apply to all capital assets including land, improvements
to land, buildings, furnishings and equipment, vehicles, and general
infrastructure.
   (B)   When an asset is disposed of, scrapped, sold, subject to demolition,
etc. it is to be removed from the property record and the appropriate reduction
shall be made to the asset value, accumulated depreciation, and net book value
amounts.
   (C)   Retirements shall reflect the originally recorded value of the capital
asset when the amount is ascertainable. When the originally recorded value of
the capital asset is not ascertainable, an estimate of that amount (typically
historical cost) shall be made.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-16-21)
§ 33.28 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY RECORD MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall ensure that appropriate accounting capital
assets is being exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory and
updating it each year. Each annual update shall reflect all improvements,
additions, retirements, and transfers that occurred during the year. The update
also shall ensure that the annual calculation of depreciation expense is
adjusted accordingly.
   (B)   Day-to-day stewardship of personal property above the capitalization
threshold of $10,000 ($5,000 for assets acquired with federal grants) is the
responsibility of the department utilizing the property.
   (C)   To allow for the annual updating of the capital asset records, the
departments are responsible to report information on improvements, additions,
retirements, and transfers in detail to the Clerk-Treasurer. It is expected
that this reporting will be made in a timely manner, as the capital asset
record must be updated annually. These departments include but are not limited
to Public Works, Police and Fire, Parks, Engineering, Planning, and
Administration. (In essence, the Clerk-Treasurer will record all additions and
the departments will determine all retirements and transfers and submit the
information to the Clerk-Treasurer).
   (D)   In summary, additions of assets at or above the unit capitalization
threshold of $10,000 are to be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer by the
departments upon purchase or receipt of the asset. These will be verified per
the purchasing process by the Clerk-Treasurer. Transfers and retirements of
assets at or above the $10,000 unit threshold are to be reported as such by the
departments to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time of the transaction.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-16-21)
§ 33.29 ASSETS PURCHASE WITH FEDERAL GRANT FUNDS.
   Assets at or above a threshold of $5,000 on a unit basis funded with a
federal grant are to be reported for federal compliance purposes. To achieve
this end a subsidiary list or other indicator is to be established and
maintained annually and includes all such assets currently in use.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-16-21)
§ 33.30 PROPERTY CONTROL.
   (A)   Capital assets below the capitalization threshold of $10,000 on a unit
basis but warranting 'control' shall be inventoried at the department level and
an appropriate list will be maintained. Data elements are to include asset
description, location, make, model, serial number, and other information that
assists control deemed relevant.
   (B)   Assets below the capitalization threshold but considered sensitive may
include, for example, weapons, radios, personal computers, laptop computers,
printers, fax machines, and small power tools. These minor but sensitive items
shall be inventoried and controlled at the department level. Stewardship of
these minor but sensitive items is the responsibility of the departments
utilizing these properties.
   (C)   The departments shall determine included items and appropriate means,
level of detailed data elements, and the system to be utilized. This inventory
will be updated annually to reflect additions and retirements to become a
current list of controllable items. Finally, the Clerk-Treasurer shall request
copies of the inventory and/or updated inventory of controllable items so as to
periodically review the information, adherence to policy, and check the
integrity of the data.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 3-16-21)
**** RECORD KEEPING; INVESTIGATIONS ****
§ 33.40 RIGHT OF TAXPAYERS.
   It shall be the right of any taxpayer to cause to be timely investigated,
what is believed to be a violation of an existing City ordinance.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 9-10-98)
§ 33.41 PROCEDURE ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Mayor of the City of Boonville, Indiana, shall establish a procedure for
the filing, receiving, investigating and recording of reports of violations of
City ordinances.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 9-10-98)
§ 33.42 REPORTS; DUE DATES AND COPIES.
   (A)   The Mayor of the City of Boonville, Indiana, shall cause a detailed
report of the filing, investigating and resolution of reports of violations of
City ordinances from the previous two weeks to be filed on the first and
fifteenth of each month, and shall provide copies of said report to the members
of the Common Council within twenty-four hours after filing.
   (B)   Investigation of reports of ordinance violations shall begin no later
than three working days after the City receives said report of violation.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 9-10-98)
§ 33.43 FIRE AND POLICE DEPARTMENTS REPORTS; FEES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fee in the sum of ten dollars ($10.00)
for accident reports provided by the Boonville Police Department and a fee in
the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for all other Boonville Police Department
reports. Said fee shall be credited by the City of Boonville in the Police
Continuing Education Fund.
   (B)   There is hereby established a fee in the sum of ten dollars ($10.00)
for fire reports provided by the Boonville Fire Department. Said fee shall be
credited by the City of Boonville in the Fire Department Training Fund.
   (C)   There is hereby established a fee in the sum of five dollars ($5.00)
for notary fees. Said fee shall be credited by the City of Boonville in the
General Fund.
(Ord. 1993-25, passed 12-9-93; Am. Ord. 2005-1, passed 2-3-05)
**** CREDIT CARDS ****
§ 33.50 PROCEDURES FOR CITY-ISSUED CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain adequate documentation of the
transaction and those in possession of any credit card issued to the City of
Boonville which documentation shall include, but not be limited to, the
maintenance of a log by the Clerk-Treasurer reflecting the time, date, credit
card issuer, last four digits of the credit card account for each credit card
delivered into the possession of a Department Head and each Department shall
maintain a similar log of each employee whom they authorize to possess and use
such credit card, a copy of which log shall be provided by the Department Head
and/or other designee to the Clerk-Treasurer on a monthly basis to enable the
Clerk-Treasurer to be audited as provided by the law. When the purpose for
which the credit card has been issued has been accomplished, the card should be
returned to the custody of the responsible person.
   (B)   Supporting documents such as a purchase order, paid bills, and
receipts must be made available to the Clerk-Treasurer to process for payment.
Payments shall not be made on the basis of the statement or credit card slip
only. Additionally, any interest or penalty incurred due to the late filing or
furnishing of documentation by an officer or employee should be the
responsibility of that officer or employee.
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 6-5-12)
**** IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION ****
§ 33.60 RISK ASSESSMENT.
   The City of Boonville has conducted an internal risk assessment to evaluate
how at risk the current procedures are at allowing customers to create a
fraudulent account and evaluate if current (existing) accounts were opened and
the methods used to access the account information. Using this information the
utility was able to identify red flags that were appropriated to prevent
identity theft:
   (A)   New accounts opened in person;
   (B)   New accounts opened via telephone;
   (C)   New accounts opened via fax;
   (D)   Account information accessed in person;
   (E)   Account information accessed via telephone; and
   (F)   Account information accessed via fax.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 7-2-09)
§ 33.61 DETECTION (RED FLAGS).
   The city adopts the following red flags to detect potential fraud. These are
not intended to be all-inclusive and other suspicious activity may be
investigated as necessary.
   (A)   Identification documents appear to be altered.
   (B)   Phot and physical description do not match appearance of applicant.
   (C)   Other information is inconsistent with information provided by
applicant.
   (D)   Other information provided by applicant is inconsistent with
information on file.
   (E)   Application appears altered or destroyed and reassembled.
   (F)   Personal information provided by applicant does not match other
sources of information (e.g. Social Security Number range and date of birth).
   (G)   Information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity
(e.g. address or phone number provided is same as that of a fraudulent
application).
   (H)   Social Security Number, address, or telephone number is the same as
that of other customer at utility.
   (I)   Customer fails to provide all information requested.
   (J)   Identity theft is reported or discovered.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 7-2-09)
§ 33.62 RESPONSE.
   Any employee that may suspect fraud or detect a red flag will implement the
following response as applicable. All detections or suspicious red flags shall
be reported to contact personnel.
   (A)   Ask applicant for additional documentation.
   (B)   Notify law enforcement.
   (C)   Do not open the account.
   (D)   Close the account.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 7-2-09)
§ 33.63 PERSONAL INFORMATION SECURITY PROCEDURES.
   The City of Boonville Utilities adopts the following security procedures:
   (A)   Paper documents, files, and electronic media containing secure
information will be stored in locked file cabinets. File cabinets will be
stored in a locked room.
   (B)   Only specially identified employees with a legitimate need will have
keys to the room and cabinet.
   (C)   Files containing personally identifiable information are kept in
locked file cabinets except when an employee is working on the file.
   (D)   Employees log off their computers when leaving their work areas.
   (E)   Visitors who must enter areas where sensitive files are kept must be
escorted by an employee of the utility.
   (F)   Computer passwords will be required.
   (G)   User names and passwords will be different.
   (H)   Passwords will be changed on a monthly basis.
   (I)   Passwords will not be shared or posted near workstations.
   (J)   When installing new software, vendor-supplied default passwords are
changed.
   (K)   The use of laptops is restricted to those employees who need them to
perform their jobs.
   (L)   Laptops are stored in secure place.
   (M)   Employees never leave a laptop visible in a car, at a hotel luggage
stand, or packed in checked luggage.
   (N)   The computer network will have a firewall where your network connects
to the internet.
   (O)   Access to customer's personal identify information is limited to
employees with a need to know.
   (P)   Procedure exists for making sure that workers who leave your employ or
transfer to another part of the company no longer have access to sensitive
information.
   (Q)   Employees who violate security policy are subjected to discipline, up
to, and including dismissal.
   (R)   Paper records will be shredded before being placed into the trash.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 7-2-09)
**** ONLINE BANKING ****
§ 33.70 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments, and payments for monthly bills
and BMO credit card payments. Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT) including online transfers. The City
Council of the City of Boonville authorizes the use of online transfers for the
purpose of transfers for the purpose of transferring funds to the account
payable checking account from the general, electric, water, sewer, bond and
pension accounts in the process of paying claims/invoices.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-references transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed - -)
**** RESPONSIBLE BIDDING PRACTICES AND SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 33.80 BID SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Contractors proposing to submits bids on any City public works project
estimated to be at least one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) or
more must, prior to the bid submission deadline, submit a statement made under
oath and subject to perjury laws, on a form designated by the City and must
include:
   (A)   A copy of a print-out of the Indiana Secretary of State's online
records for the bidder dated within sixty (60) days of the submission of said
document showing that the bidder is in existence, current with the Indiana
Secretary of State's Business Entity Reports, and eligible for a certificate of
good standing;
   (B)   A list identifying all former business names;
   (C)   Any determinations by a court or governmental agency for violations of
federal, state, or local laws including, but not limited to violations of
contracting or antitrust laws, tax or licensing laws, environmental laws, the
Occupational Safety and Health Act ("OSHA"), or federal Davis-Bacon and related
Acts;
   (D)   A statement on staffing capabilities, including labor sources from
which labor will be derived on the public works project;
   (E)   Evidence that the contractor is in compliance with I.C. 5-16-13-12 and
its requirements pertaining to participation in apprenticeship and training
programs applicable to the work to be performed on the public work project;
   (F)   A copy of a written plan for employee drug testing that: covers all
employees of the bidder who will perform work on the public work project;
   (G)   The name and description of the management experience of each of the
bidders project managers and superintendents that bidder intends to assign to
work on the project;
   (H)   Proof of any professional or trade license required by law of this
chapter for any trade or specialty area in which bidder is seeking a contract
award, disclosure of any suspension or revocation within the previous five
years of any professional or trade license held by the company, or of any
director, office or manager employed by the bidder;
   (I)   Evidence that the contractor is utilizing a surety company which is on
the United States Department of Treasury's listing of approved Sureties; and
   (J)   The contractor shall provide a written statement of any federal,
state, or local tax liens or tax delinquencies owed to any federal, state, or
local taxing body in the last five years. The City reserves the right to
require supplemental information from the bidder for verification of any of the
information provided by the bidder and may also conduct random inquires of the
bidders current and prior customers. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this
section shall not apply to a public work project performed by the City in
accordance with I.C. 36-1-12-3(b).
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 1-25-18)
§ 33.81 SUBMISSIONS FROM SUBCONTRACTORS.
   (A)   All bidders shall provide a written list that discloses the name,
address, and type of work for each first-tier subcontractor from whom the
bidder has accepted a bid and/or intends to hire on any part of the public work
project, including individuals performing work as independent contractors. In
accordance with section 3.90.110, all bidders shall adhere to City policy and
procedures pertaining to minority owned business and women owned business
utilization.
   (B)   In addition, each such first-tier subcontractor shall be required to
adhere to the requirements of this chapter as though it were bidding directly
to the City, except that first-tier subcontractors shall submit the required
information (including the name, address, and type of work for each of their
first-tier subcontractors) to the bidder and the bidder shall then forward said
information to the City. Payment shall be withheld from any first-tier
subcontractor who fails to timely submit said information until such
information is submitted and approved by the City.
   (C)   Upon request, the City may require any bidder to provide the required
information (including name, address, type of work on the project and the name
of the higher-tier subcontractor) about its second and lower-tier
subcontractors. Payments shall be withheld from any bidder who fails to timely
submit this information until this information is submitted and approved by the
City. Additionally, the City may require the successful bidder to remove the
relevant subcontractor or second or lower-tier subcontractor from the project
and replace it with a responsive and responsible subcontractor.
   (D)   The City may withhold all payments otherwise due to a bidder for work
performed by a subcontractor until such subcontractor submits the information
required pursuant to this chapter and the City approves such information.
Successful bidders shall only be permitted to use approved subcontractors which
have provided required information to the City about the applicable responsive
and responsible subcontractor.
   (E)   The disclosure of a subcontractor ("disclosed subcontractor") by a
bidder or a subcontractor shall not create any rights in the disclosed
subcontractor. A bidder and/or subcontractor may not substitute another
subcontractor ("substitute subcontractor") for a disclosed subcontractor
without written approval of City. The contractor shall provide written notice
of the name, address, and type of work of the substitute subcontractor. The
substitute subcontractor shall be subject to all of the obligations of a
subcontractor under this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 1-25-18)
§ 33.82 VALIDITY OF PRE-QUALIFICATION CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   Upon designation by the City that a contractor's or subcontractor's
submission in anticipation of a bid is complete and timely, and upon any
further consideration deemed necessary by the City, the contractor or
subcontractor may be pre-qualified for future City public works projects. A
contractor's classification as "pre-qualified" shall exempt the contractor or
sub-contractor from the comprehensive submission requirements contained herein
for a period of (12) months. Thereafter, contractors or subcontractors who are
prequalified must submit a complete application for continuation of "pre-
qualified" standing on a form provided by the City (also referred to as the
"short form") by December 31 for the upcoming calendar year. Failure by any
pre-qualified contractor or subcontractor to timely submit its complete
application for continuation of "pre-qualified" standing shall result in
automatic removal of the designation, effective January 1 of the upcoming year.
However, the "removed" contractor or subcontractor shall still be permitted to
bid on City public works projects.
   (B)   Any material changes to the contractor's status, at any time, must be
reported in writing within ten (10) days of it's occurrence to the City. The
pre-qualification designation is solely within the discretion of the City and
the City specifically reserves the right to change or revoke the designation
for a stated written reason(s).
   (C)   Denial of pre-qualification shall be in writing and shall be forwarded
to the contractor within seven (7) working days of such decision. Any
contractor denied or losing pre-qualification status may request
reconsideration of the decision by submitting such request in writing to the
City within five (5) business days of receipt of notice of denial.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 1-25-18)
§ 33.83 INCOMPLETE SUBMISSIONS BY BIDDERS.
   It is the sole responsibility of the potential bidder to comply with all
submission requirements applicable to the bidder in this section by no later
than the public bid opening. Submissions deemed inadequate, incomplete, or
untimely by the City may result in the automatic disqualification of the bid.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 1-25-18)
§ 33.84 RESPONSIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BIDDER DETERMINATION.
   The City, after review of complete and timely submissions, shall, in its
sole discretion, after taking into account all information in the submission
requirements, determine whether a bidder is responsive and responsible pursuant
to I.C. 36-1-12-4. The City specifically reserves the right to utilize all
information provided in the contractor or subcontractors submission or any
information obtained by the City through its own independent verification of
the information provided by the contractor.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 1-25-18)
§ 33.85 CERTIFIED PAYROLL.
   For public work projects in which the cost is at least two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($250,000), the successful bidder and all subcontractors
working on a public work project shall, upon request by the City, identify the
job title, work classification, rate of pay, tax deductions, and craft of each
employee on the project, e.g. journeyman electrician or apprentice electrician.
The successful bidder and all subcontractors may satisfy the requirements of
this section, if requested by the City, by providing the federal form known as
a WH 347.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 1-25-18)
§ 33.86 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   All information submitted by a bidder or a subcontractor pursuant to this
chapter are public records subject to review pursuant to the Indiana Access to
Public Records law (I.C. 5-14-3).
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 1-25-18)
§ 33.87 PENALTIES FOR FALSE, DECEPTIVE, OR FRAUDULENT STATEMENTS/INFORMATION.
   Any bidder that willfully makes, or willfully causes to be made, false,
deceptive or fraudulent statement, or willfully submits false, deceptive or
fraudulent information in connection with any submission made to the City shall
be disqualified from bidding on all City projects for a period of three (3)
years and may be enforced pursuant to EMC 1.05.170 and 1.05.180, or as
otherwise provided by statute.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 1-25-18)
§ 33.88 CONFLICT AND APPLICABLE LAW.
   This section shall be interpreted and construed in harmony with I.C. 36-1-
12, 5-16-13 and all applicable provisions of the Indiana Code as they pertain
to public work projects, and nothing herein shall be interpreted to be in
conflict therewith. Should there be a conflict, the applicable provisions of
the Indiana Code shall govern.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 1-25-18)
**** UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL ****
§ 33.90 UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The City of Boonville hereby adopts as policy the internal control
standards as set forth by the Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal
Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly
written and published by the Indiana State Board of Accounts in September,
2015, and as amended from time to time.
   (B)   At the time the annual financial report is electronically filed, the
Clerk-Treasurer as fiscal officer of the City of Boonville shall certify in
writing that the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political
Subdivisions have been adopted and shall certify that the personnel have been
trained as required by law.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 6-30-16)
MATERIALITY OF VARIANCES, LOSSES, SHORTAGES
§ 33.95 POLICY ON MATERIALITY OF VARIANCES, LOSSES, SHORTAGES, OR THEFTS AND
PROCESS FOR REPORTING.
   (A)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of
the City of Boonville funds or property, or any funds or property held in trust
by the City, shall be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer or his/her designee
promptly upon discovery.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain records pertaining to all irregular
variances, losses shortages or thefts of City funds or City property discovered
by him/her or reported to him/her, and shall cause the same to be investigated
by the appropriate personnel.
   (C)   It is the policy of the City that the Clerk-Treasurer shall report to
the State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of cash in excess of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) per
incident, except for inadvertent clerical errors that are identified timely and
promptly corrected with no loss to the City.
   (D)   It is the policy of the City that the Clerk-Treasurer shall report
promptly to the State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances,
losses, shortages, or thefts of non-cash items in excess of twenty-five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) estimated market value, except those resulting from
inadvertent clerical errors or misplacements that are identified timely and
promptly corrected with no loss to the City, and except for losses from
casualty, accidents, or acts of God.
   (E)   All City elected officials, all City employees and their agents are
directed to comply with this policy.
(Res. 2016-9, passed 8-4-16)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL
Section.
   
34.01   Introduction; definition
   
34.02   Wages; pay day
   
34.03   Hours and overtime
   
34.04   Holidays
   
34.05   Vacations
   
34.06   Leaves of absence
   
34.07   Pension
   
34.08   Drug and alcohol policy
   
34.09   Sexual harassment
   
34.10   Retirement
   
34.11   Health and life insurance
   
34.12   Employment at will
   
34.13   Uniform allowance
   
34.14   Additional expenses
   
34.15   Personal days
   
34.16   Longevity pay
   
34.17   Pay in lieu of excess vacation
   
34.18   Retirees insurance
§ 34.01 INTRODUCTION; DEFINITION.
   (A)   (1)   This personnel policy is applicable to all full-time City
employees and elected officials who are not covered by a collective bargaining
agreement, unless otherwise noted.
      (2)   With regard to police and fire employees, the provision of the
state law regarding insurance, discipline and dismissal are incorporated by
reference herein as are all operating regulations of the Board of Public Works
and Safety as they relate to the conduct of those two departments.
   (B)   All employees to whom the policy applies, working an average of thirty
(30) hours per week for twenty-six (26) consecutive weeks shall be deemed full-
time employees and receive all benefits provided in this policy. All other
employees shall be deemed part-time employees and shall not receive benefits
hereunder.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-3-13)
§ 34.02 WAGES; PAY DAY.
   (A)   The wage rates which the City shall be obligated to pay non-fire and
non-police employees are as determined by the Mayor and Board of Public Works
and Safety, not to exceed the salary ordinance caps as set by the Common
Council. The wage rate which the City shall be obligated to pay police and fire
employees shall be as set by the Common Council in the salary ordinance.
   (B)   The City of Boonville shall have a bi-weekly pay period. Pay shall be
made to employees not later than 4:00 p.m., on Friday. If an employee's
paycheck is short by twenty-five dollars ($25.00) or more on regular, non-
overtime wages, or seventy-five dollars ($75.00) or more on overtime wages,
such employee shall be issued a supplemental check making up the shortfall, by
the close of business of the 3rd working day after the shortfall is identified,
and brought to the attention of the Department Head. In all other instances,
the shortfall shall be included in the next regular wage paycheck.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96; Am. Ord. 2000-25, passed 2-12-01; Am. Ord.
2001-10, passed 7-12-01; Am. Ord. 2003-9, approved 9-5-03; Am. Ord. 2013-1,
passed 2-7-13)
§ 34.03 HOURS AND OVERTIME.
   (A)   (1)   The work week for employees, other than police, fire, elected
officials and supervisory employees deemed exempt under the Fair Labor
Standards Act shall begin at 12:01 a.m. Monday and end Sunday night, midnight.
Employees shall receive a fifteen-minute break in the morning and a fifteen-
minute break in the afternoon.
      (2)   The words "work week," except for police, fire, elected officials
and supervisory employees deemed exempt under the Fair Labor Standards Act, as
used in this policy shall be the period of seven (7) days commencing at the
starting time of the employee's first scheduled work shift after 12:00 midnight
Sunday. The work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive work days of eight
(8) hours each, or forty (40) hours per week.
      (3)   The phrase "work day," except for police, fire, elected officials
and supervisory employees deemed exempt under the Fair Labor Standards Act, as
used herein shall be defined as a twenty-four (24) hour period starting with
the employee's scheduled starting time and ending twenty-four (24) hours
thereafter. The basic work day shall consist of eight (8) hours of work,
exclusive of lunch periods. Lunch periods shall be scheduled by the City and
shall consist of sixty (60) minutes. Provided, further, the basic work day
shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours for those employees who remain on
duty constantly during such eight (8) hour period.
      (4)   For non-police and non-fire employees, the work day begins at 7:00
or 8:00 a.m. and ends at 4:00 or 5:00 p.m. as directed by the Mayor. Police and
fire employee shifts are as determined by their respective department.
      (5)   All hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any work week,
except police, fire, elected officials and supervisory employees deemed exempt
under the Fair Labor Standards Act, shall be paid at the rate of one and one-
half (1½) times the regular hourly rate. For the purpose of this provision
only, time not worked in any work week because of a holiday or the observance
of a holiday which otherwise would have been a scheduled work day, shall be
counted as hours worked in computing said forty (40) hours. Absences for which
an employee is authorized by the employer and for which the employee is
compensated and which otherwise would have been a scheduled work day shall be
counted as time worked for the purposes of this provision only.
      (6)   Overtime shall not be paid twice for the same hours worked. There
shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
   (B)   Firefighters shall receive overtime for all time worked in excess of
twenty-four (24) hours per workday. When a firefighter is required to work
overtime, firefighter shall be paid for time worked at an hourly rate equal to
one and one-half (1½) times the employee's regular rate of pay. The regular
hourly rate shall be the firefighter's base pay. Compensatory time shall not be
available, nor shall overtime be carried from year to year. The Fire Chief is
required to develop a policy ensuring all firefighters will receive equal
opportunities to work available overtime. The policy shall be in writing and
available to all eligible employees. Overtime section shall be based upon
staffing requirements, as determined by the Fire Chief.
   (C)   All payments for overtime compensation together with other fringe
benefits shall be in addition to the annual compensation and shall not be
considered as part of the compensation set out in the salary ordinance.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96; Am. Ord. 2000-25, passed 2-12-01; Am. Ord.
2001-10, passed 7-12-01; Am. Ord. 2002-7, passed 9-3-02; Am. Ord. 2003-9,
passed 9-5-03; Am. Ord. 2013-1, passed 2-7-13)
§ 34.04 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   (1)   The City shall observe the following holidays: New Year's Day,
Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Birthday, Presidents Day, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday after Thanksgiving,
Christmas Eve day, Good Friday, Christmas Day, election days. In those years
where no elections occur, election day holidays shall be observed on the Monday
before the Tuesday when such election would have occurred if elections were
held.
      (2)   When any of the above holidays fall on a Sunday, the holiday shall
be observed on the Monday following; and when on a Saturday, the holiday shall
be observed on the Friday prior thereto.
      (3)   The employees covered by this division shall be allowed eight (8)
hours pay for each of the above holidays, or the day on which said holiday is
observed by the City as set out above.
      (4)   Employees covered by this division who are required to work on any
of the aforesaid holidays or observance days shall receive a substitute day off
for the holiday.
   (B)   Full-time firefighters shall receive, in lieu of the holiday observed
by other employees, payment in the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) gross,
per holiday. Such sum shall be paid as the holiday occurs within the current
pay period.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96; Am. Ord. 2000-25, passed 2-12-01; Am. Ord.
2001-10, passed 7-12-01; Am. Ord. 2002-7, passed 9-3-02; Am. Ord. 2003-9,
passed 9-5-03; Am. Ord. 2013-1, passed 2-7-13)
§ 34.05 VACATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All full-time employees on the active payroll of the City, other
than elected officials and police officers, who are covered by a collective
bargaining agreement, are covered by this policy, and who have been actively at
work sixty percent (60%) or more of the total working days during the calendar
year, shall be entitled to earn paid vacation which will be credited on January
1st of the following year of full-time employment with the City of Boonville.
For example, an employee who begins work after January 1st of a given year
shall not be credited with a week of paid vacation, until January 1st of the
following year; an employee who begins work on January 1st will be credited
with a week of vacation effective January 1st of the following year. The earned
paid vacation, following, does not apply to elected officials, full-time police
(who are covered by a collective bargaining agreement) and full-time
firefighters:
         (a)   After one (1) year of continuous service - 1 week (40 hours);
         (b)   After two (2) years of continuous service - 2 weeks (80 hours);
         (c)   After five (5) years of continuous service - 3 weeks (120
hours); and
         (d)   After eight (8) years of continuous service - 4 weeks (160
hours).
      (2)   The earned paid vacation is as follows for all full-time
firefighters, with exception of the Fire Chief, who shall earn the paid
vacation as stated above, due to the recognition of the City of his/her duties
and work schedule:
         (a)   After one (1) year of continuous service - 3 working shifts;
         (b)   After two (2) years of continuous service - 6 working shifts;
         (c)   After five (5) years of continuous service - 9 working shifts;
and
         (d)   After eight (8) years of continuous service - 12 working shifts.
      (3)   All full-time employees on the active payroll of the City, other
than elected officials and police officers shall receive one (1) additional
working shift per year for each subsequent year after their 10th year of
completed service, not retroactive.
      (4)   All vacation shall be taken in blocks of time of not less than four
(4) hours. Vacation not used within the calendar year it is accrued, shall be
forfeited. Pursuant to division (E), the employee may elect to be paid for
vacation within the calendar year, not previously used by the employee. Any
employee, who is unable to work due to a job related injury, shall continue to
accrue vacation until employment is terminated.
   (B)   An employee who leaves the employ of the City for any reason prior to
using earned vacation shall receive payment in lieu thereof at the straight
time rate for the unused but earned vacation on a pro-rata basis of one-twelfth
(1/12) earned for each month worked for which no vacation has been taken.
   (C)   The City shall schedule the number of employees in each Department who
shall receive vacations at a particular time. The vacation period of each
employee shall be set with due regard to the desire, and preference of the
employees, consistent with the efficient operation of the City's business.
Vacations shall be scheduled on a year-round basis. Under no circumstances will
the City allow more than fifty percent (50%) of the employees of a department
to be on vacation at any one time.
   (D)   An employee, upon giving a reasonable notice of not less than two (2)
weeks to the City, shall be given his vacation pay before starting his
vacation. It is understood that during the first year of employment, the
employee must work sixty percent (60%) of the total working days in order to
obtain his vacation and must have been employed for the full year. During the
second and subsequent years, the employee must have worked sixty percent (60%)
of the total working days of the year, but need not be employed for the full
year to be eligible for the vacation. No more than one vacation will be earned
in any twelve (12) month period.
   (E)   Any full-time employee of the City of Boonville, who has accumulated
up to eighty (80) hours of vacation time, shall be required to take up to
eighty (80) hours of vacation time during his or her twelve (12) month calendar
year employment period. Any vacation time accrued, in excess of eighty (80)
hours, may be taken in hourly pay, payable at straight time rate, in lieu of
time off.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96; Am. Ord. 2000-25, passed 2-12-01; Am. Ord.
2003-9, passed 9-5-03; Am. Ord. 2009-6, passed 3-5-09; Am. Ord. 2013-1, passed
2-7-13)
§ 34.06 LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   Sick leave.
      (1)   An employee covered by this policy, except elected officials, shall
be compensated for time lost due to illness or injury pursuant to this section.
The employees covered by this agreement shall be entitled to receive
compensation for time lost due to illness or injury incurred while on duty for
a total of six (6) months per calendar year. For injury or illness incurred off
duty each employee shall be entitled to three (3) months sick leave in any
calendar year, provided, however, that the Board of Public Works and Safety may
grant up to an additional three (3) months sick leave for those employees under
its jurisdiction for a nonwork related injury or illness.
      (2)   Any employee who, at the end of the sick leave period, is still
unable to return to work shall not continue on the payroll of the City, subject
to family and medical leave requirements set out in this chapter, and shall be
transferred to a non-paid disabled employee list. No employee placed on
disability shall return to active employment, with the City until fully
released to do so by an appropriate health care provider with such release to
be in writing. The City shall not be required to preserve a job for an employee
who is transferred to the disabled list, except as provided under the family
and medical leave provision.
      (3)   To be eligible for sick leave, an employee must report an illness
or injury to the City prior to the time scheduled to work. If an employee is
absent for more than three (3) consecutive days due to illness or injury, the
employee shall furnish a doctor's certificate stating that the employee has
been ill or injured, was under the doctor's treatment and was unable to work
because of said illness or injury. Where advance notice is not possible, the
employee will be considered to have provided proper notice by informing the
City of the anticipated date of return. Otherwise, the employee will be
expected to notify the City daily of the absence. Any employee off work on
extended sick leave shall, when directed by the appropriate authority, submit
necessary medical information, including physician opinions, justifying the
employee's absence.
      (4)   Misuse of sick leave benefits will result in the loss of pay for
those days for which sick leave was misused and may result in termination of
the employee.
   (B)   Family and medical leave.
      (1)   Definitions.
      ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE. An employee who has been employed:
         (a)   For at least twelve (12) months by the City with respect to whom
leave is requested under §
34.03 (A)(2); and
         (b)   For at least one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) hours of
service with the City during the previous twelve (12)-month period.
      EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS. All benefits provided or made available to employees
by the City, including group life insurance, group health insurance, disability
insurance, sick leave, annual leave, educational benefits and pensions,
regardless of whether such benefits are provided by a practice or written
policy of the City or through an “employee benefit plan,” as defined in Section
3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 [29 USC 1002 (3)].
      HEALTH CARE PROVIDER.
         (a)   A doctor of medicine or osteopathy who is authorized to practice
medicine or surgery by the State of Indiana; or
         (b)   Any person determined by the United States Secretary of Labor to
be capable of providing health care services.
      PARENT. The biological parent of any employee or an individual who stood
in loco parentis to an employee when the employee was a son or daughter.
      REDUCED LEAVE SCHEDULE. A leave schedule that reduces the usual number of
hours per work week, or hours per workday of an employee.
      SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION. An illness, injury, impairment of physical or
mental condition that involves:
         (a)   Inpatient care in a hospital, hospice or residential medical
care facility; or
         (b)   Continuing treatment by a health care provider.
      SON or DAUGHTER. A biological, adopted or foster child, stepchild, a
legal ward or a child of a person standing in loco parentis, who is:
         (a)   Under 18 years of age; or
         (b)   18 years of age or older and incapable of self care because of a
mental or physical disability.
      SPOUSE. A husband or wife, as the case may be.
      (2)   Leave requirement.
         (a)   In general.
            1.   Entitlement to leave. Subject to §
34.03 (A)(3), an eligible employee shall be entitled to a total of 12 work
weeks of leave during any 12-month period for one or more of the following:
               a.   Because of the birth of a son or daughter of the employee
and to care for such son or daughter.
               b.   Because of the placement of a son or daughter with the
employee for adoption or foster care.
               c.   In order to care for the spouse, or a son, daughter or
parent, of the employee, if such spouse, son, daughter or parent has a serious
health condition.
               d.   Because of a serious health condition that makes the
employee unable to perform the functions of the position of such employee.
            2.   Expiration of entitlement. The entitlement to leave under
divisions c. and d. above for a birth or placement of a son or daughter shall
expire at the end of the 12-month period beginning on the date of such birth or
placement.
         (b)   Leave taken intermittently or on reduced leave schedule.
            1.   In general. Leave under division (B)(2)(a)1., divisions a. and
b., shall not be taken by an employee intermittently or on a reduced leave
schedule unless the employee and the City agree otherwise. Subject to divisions
(B)(2)(e)2. and (B)(3)(b)5., leave under (B)(2)(a)1., divisions c. and d., may
be taken intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule when medically
necessary. The taking of leave intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule
pursuant to this paragraph shall not result in a reduction in the total amount
of leave to which the employee is entitled under division(a) above beyond the
amount of leave actually taken.
            2.   Alternative position. If an employee requests intermittent
leave or leave on a reduced leave schedule under division (B)(2)(a)1.,
divisions c. and d., that is foreseeable based on planned medical treatment,
the City may require such employee to transfer temporarily to an available
alternative position offered by the City for which the employee is qualified
and that:
               a.   Has equivalent pay and benefits; and
               b.   Better accommodates recurring periods of leave than the
regular employment position of the employee.
      (c)   Unpaid leave permitted. Except as provided in division (d) below,
leave granted under division (a) above shall consist of unpaid leave.
         (d)   Relationship to paid leave.
            1.   Unpaid leave. Since the City provides paid leave for fewer
than 12 work weeks per year, the additional weeks of leave necessary to attain
the 12 work weeks of leave authorized under this contract shall be provided
without compensation.
            2.   Substitution of paid leave.
               a.   An eligible employee may elect, or the City may require the
employee to substitute any accrued paid vacation leave or sick leave of the
employee for the leave provided under division (a)1. for any part of the 12-
week period of such leave under such subsection.
               b.   Nothing in this contract shall require the City to provide
paid sick leave or paid medical leave in any situation in which the City would
not normally provide any such paid leave.
      (e)   Foreseeable leave.
            1.   Requirement of notice. In any case in which the necessity for
leave under division (B)(1)(a), divisions 1. or 2., is foreseeable based on an
expected birth or placement, the employee shall provide the City with not less
than 30 days written notice before the day the leave is to begin of the
employee's intention to take leave under such subparagraph, except that if the
date of the birth or placement requires leave to begin in less than 30 days,
the employee shall provide such notice as is practicable.
            2.   Duties of employee. In any case in which the necessity for
leave under divisions (c) or (d) above is foreseeable based on planned medical
treatment, the eligible employee:
               a.   Shall make a reasonable effort to schedule the treatment so
as not to disrupt unduly the operation of the City, subject to the approval of
the health care provider of the employee or the health care provider of the
son, daughter, spouse or parent of the employee as appropriate, and
               b.   Shall provide the City with not less than 30 days notice
before the date the leave is to begin of the employee's intention to take leave
under such subparagraph, except that if the date of the treatment requires
leave to begin in less than 30 days, the employee shall provide such notice as
is practicable.
         (f)   Spouses employed by the same employer. In any case in which a
husband and wife entitled to leave under division (B)(1)(a) are employed by the
City, the aggregate number of work weeks to which both may be entitled, shall
be limited to 12 work weeks during any 12-month period if such leave is taken:
            1.   Under division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b.; or
            2.   To care for a sick parent under (B)(1)(a)1.c.
      (3)   Certification.
         (a)   In general. The City may require that a request for leave under
divisions § 34.03 (A) be supported by a certificate issued by the health care
provider of the eligible employee or of the son, daughter, spouse or parent of
the employee as appropriate. The employee shall provide, in a timely manner, a
copy of such certification to the City.
         (b)   Sufficient certification. Certification provided under division
(a) shall be sufficient if it states:
            1.   The date on which the serious health condition commenced.
            2.   The probably duration of the condition.
            3.   The appropriate medical facts within the knowledge of the
health care provider regarding the condition.
            4.   For purpose of leave under division (a) above, a statement
that the eligible employee is needed to care for the son, daughter, spouse or
parent and an estimate of amount of time that employee is needed to care for
the son, daughter, spouse or parent, and a statement that the employee is
unable to perform the functions of the position of the employee.
            5.   In the case of certification for intermittent leave or leave
on a reduced leave schedule f or planned medical treatment, the dates on which
such treatment is expected to be given and the duration of such treatment.
            6.   In the case of certification for intermittent leave, or leave
on a reduced leave schedule a statement of the medical necessity for the
intermittent leave or leave on a reduced leave schedule and the expected
duration of the intermittent leave or reduced leave schedule.
            7.   In the case of certification for intermittent leave, or leave
in a reduced leave, a statement that the employee is intermittent leave, or
leave on a reduced leave schedule is necessary f or the care of the son,
daughter, parent or spouse who has a serious health condition or will assist in
their recovery and the expected duration and schedule of the intermittent leave
or reduced leave schedule.
         (c)   Second opinion.
            1.   In general. In any case in which the City has reason to
question the validity of the certification provided for leave under division
(a)1.c. or d., the City may require at the expense of the City that the
employee obtain the opinion of a second health care provider designated or
approved by the City concerning any information certified under subsection (b)
for such leave.
            2.   Limitation. A health care provider designated or approved
under paragraph (3) shall not be employed on a regular basis by the City.
         (d)   Resolution of conflicting opinions.
            1.   In general. In any case in which the second opinion described
in division (c) differs from the opinion in the original certification provided
under division (a), the City may require at the expense of the City that the
employee obtain the opinion of a third health care provider designated or
approved jointly by the City and the employee concerning the information
certified under division (b).
            2.   Finality. The opinion of the third health care provider
concerning the information certified under subsection (2) shall be considered
to be final and shall be binding on the City and the employee.
         (e)   Subsequent recertification. The City may require that the
eligible employee obtain subsequent recertification on a reasonable basis.
      (4)   Employment and benefit protection.
         (a)   Restoration to position.
            1.   In general. Except as provided hereunder in division (b)
below, any eligible employee who takes leave for the intended purpose of the
leave shall be entitled to return from such leave:
               a.   To be restored by the City to the position of employment
held by the employee when the leave commenced; or
               b.   To be restored to an equivalent position with equivalent
employment benefits, pay and other terms and conditions of employment.
            2.   Loss of benefits. The taking of leave hereunder shall not
result in the loss of any employment benefit accrued prior to the date on which
the leave commenced.
            3.   Limitations. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
entitle any restored employee to:
               a.   The accrual of any seniority or employment benefits during
any period of leave; or
               b.   Any right, benefit or position of employment other than the
right, benefit or position to which the employee would have been entitled had
the employee not taken the leave.
            4.   Certification. As a condition of restoration under f or an
employee who has taken a leave under division (B)(2)(a)1.d., the City does
require that such employee receive certification from the health care provider
of the employee that the employee is able to resume work, except that nothing
in this paragraph shall supersede any valid law of the State of Indiana or
collective bargaining agreement that governs the return to work of such
employees.
            5.   Construction. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to
prohibit the City from requiring an employee on leave hereunder to report
periodically to the City on the status and intention of the employee to return
to work.
         (b)   Exemption concerning certain highly compensated employees.
            1.   Denial of restoration. The City may deny restoration under
division (B)(4)(a) to any eligible employee described in division (4)(b) if:
               a.   Such denial is necessary to prevent substantial and
grievous economic injury to the operations of the City;
               b.   The City notifies the employee of the intent of the City to
deny restoration on such basis at the time the City determines that such injury
would occur; and
               c.   In any case in which the leave was commenced, the employee
elects not to return to employment after receiving such notice.
            2.   Affected employees. An eligible employee described in division
(B)(4)(b) is a salaried eligible employee who is among the highest paid 10% of
the employees employed by the city.
         (c)   Maintenance of health benefits.
            1.   Coverage. Except as provided in division (B) above, during any
period that an eligible employee takes leave hereunder, the City shall maintain
coverage under any “group health plan” [as defined in section 5000(b)(1) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986] for the duration of such twelve (12) weeks leave
at the level and under the condition coverage would have been provided if the
employee had continued in employment continuously for the duration of such
leave.
            2.   Failure to return from leave. The City may recover the premium
that the City paid for maintaining coverage for the employee under such group
health plan during any period of unpaid leave hereunder if:
               a.   The employee fails to return from leave after the period of
leave to which the employee is entitled has expired; and
               b.   The employee fails to return from leave for reason other
than:
                  i.   The continuation, recurrence or onset of a serious
health condition that entitles the employee to leave under (B)(3)(b)1.c. or d.;
or
                  ii.   Other circumstances beyond the control of the employee.
            3.   Certification.
               a.   Issuance. The City shall require that a claim that an
employee is unable to return to work because of the continuation, recurrence or
onset of the serious health condition described be supported by:
                  i.   A certification issued by the health care provider of
the son, daughter, spouse or parent of the employee, as appropriate, in the
case of an employee unable to return to work because of a condition specified
in (B)(2)(c)1.c.; or
                  ii.   A certification issued by the health care provider of
the eligible employee in the case of an employee unable to return to work
because of a condition specified in (B)(2)(c)1.d.
               b.   Copy. The employee shall provide, in a timely manner, a
copy of such certification to the City.
               c.   Sufficiency of certification.
                  i.   Leave due to serious health condition of employee. The
certification described in division 3.a.ii., shall be sufficient if the
certification states that a serious health condition prevented the employee
from being able to perform the functions of the position of the employee on the
date that the leave of the employee expired.
                  ii.   Leave due to serious health condition of family member.
The certification described in division 3.a.i., shall be sufficient if the
certification states that the employee is needed to care for the son, daughter,
spouse or parent who has a serious health condition on the date that the leave
of the employee expired.
   (C)   Funeral leave. Funeral leave shall be defined as leave granted without
loss of pay to an employee upon the death of an immediate family member. In any
event, the day of the funeral shall be one of the days of such leave and in no
event shall the last day of the leave be longer than two (2) days after the
funeral. During such absence, the employee shall be compensated at the regular
rate not in excess of eight (8) hours per day of leave.
      (1)   In the event of the death of a child, step-child or spouse of an
employee, the employee shall be granted up to five (5) days of funeral leave
with pay.
      (2)   In the event of a death of an employee’s mother, father, mother-in-
law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandmother, grandfather, grandchild,
brother-in-law or sister-in-law, the employee shall be granted up to four (4)
days of funeral leave with pay.
      (3)   In the event of a death of an aunt, uncle, niece, nephew or cousin,
the employee shall be granted up to two (2) days of funeral leave with pay.
   (D)   Military reserve. All employees who are members of the Military
Reserve components shall be entitled to a leave of absence, not to exceed
fifteen (15) calendar days in any one calendar year, to attend active duty
training or inactive duty training with full pay and without affecting their
vacation or vacation pay.
   (E)   Jury duty pay plan.
      (1)   An employee called for jury duty, and who must serve on the jury at
a time which causes him to miss work, will be paid by the City in the amount of
the difference between what he is paid by the Court and what his daily base
rate of pay is.
      (2)   If an employee is called for jury duty, he must bring to the Clerk-
Treasurer, upon his return from Court, a statement as to the actual time he
served and the amount that he will be paid by the Court. If an employee serves
on a jury only a portion of a day, he will be expected to report for work the
balance of that day.
      (3)   The maximum amount paid in any one day shall not exceed eight (8)
hours pay at the employee's basic rate less that amount paid by the Court for
jury duty.
   (F)   Training leave.
      (1)   Employees may, upon agreement with the City, obtain training leaves
without loss of pay for the purpose of participating in training and seminars
that will increase the knowledge or efficiency of said employee in his position
with the City.
      (2)   A leave of absence without pay or benefits may be granted to an
employee upon request of the employee and approval by the Board of Works. An
employee must return to work or have been granted additional, leave time by the
agreed upon date of return, or such employee will be considered to have
resigned, not in good standing.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96; Am. Ord. 2004-27, passed 12-22-04; Am. Ord.
2013-1, passed 2-7-13)
§ 34.07 PENSION.
   The City will participate in the Public Employees Retirement Fund of Indiana
established by Acts of 1945, chapter 340, and all other acts amendatory thereof
and supplemental thereto. Contributions, allocation of contributions and
benefits will be established in accordance with state law governing the Public
Employees Retirement Fund. The employer shall pay the employees contribution to
PERF for non-police and non-fire employees and shall pay, for police and fire,
an amount of their contribution equal to that of non-police and non-fire
employees.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96)
§ 34.08 DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this Drug and Alcohol Policy, hereinafter
referred to as “this Policy,” is to implement drug and alcohol testing
procedures for City of Boonville, Indiana, hereinafter referred to as “City,”
employees and employment applicants, and to otherwise comply with state and
federal statutes, rules and regulations, including the Drug Free Work Place
Act, governing drug and alcohol abuse programs for municipal employees. This
Policy is also designed to achieve the objectives outlined hereinafter in
division (C).
   (B)   Persons affected by testing. All potential new hires will be subject
to mandatory pre-employment assessment screening and drug testing. All
employees of the City who are not members of the bargaining unit shall be
subject to probable cause testing as spelled out in this section. Only drivers
or operators of CDL required equipment, members of the police and fire
department and supervisory personnel shall be subject to the random testing
portions of this policy.
   (C)   Objectives.
      (1)   To implement scientifically valid, fairly administered and properly
documented procedures for prohibited drug and alcohol testing of City
employees.
      (2)   To define circumstances when the City may require its employees to
submit to prohibited drug and alcohol testing.
      (3)   To define the disciplinary sanctions that may be imposed against
employees who test positive for illegal drug and alcohol use, or who are
otherwise found to have illegally used, consumed, possessed, transferred or
been under the influence of prohibited drugs or alcohol while on duty or at
their workplace.
      (4)   To prevent accidents and injuries resulting from the misuse of
prohibited drugs and alcohol.
   (D)   Definitions.
   ALCOHOL. The intoxicating agent in a beverage, including ethyl alcohol,
methyl alcohol and isopropyl alcohol.
   CONFIRMATION TEST. A second analytical procedure required after a screen
test reveals the presence of an impermissible level of alcohol or a prohibited
drug in a person's system. A CONFIRMATION TEST shall employ a procedure
independent from the initial screen test and utilize a more advanced and
reliable scientific method for determining the presence of alcohol or
prohibited drugs in a person's system. Unless otherwise directed, CONFIRMATION
TESTING for the presence of prohibited drugs shall employ the gas
chromatography/mass spectrometry method.
   POST-ACCIDENT SCREEN TEST. A screen test taken when an employee operating a
motor vehicle in the course and scope of his or her employment is involved in
an accident resulting in death, personal injury.
   PROBABLE CAUSE SCREEN TEST. A screen test taken when facts and circumstances
cause an employee's supervisor, and a member of the Board of Works, based upon
reasonable suspicion, to believe that the employee is using or is under the
influence of alcohol or prohibited drugs.
   PROHIBITED DRUG. A “controlled substance,” as defined in Schedules I-V of 21
USC § 812, including marijuana, cocaine, opiates, amphetamines and
phencyclidine. PROHIBITED DRUG shall also include any controlled substance used
contrary to or without a valid prescription issued by a health care provider.
   SCREEN TEST. An initial, scientifically valid, procedure for examining human
fluids to detect the presence of alcohol or prohibited drugs in a person's
system. This policy also authorizes the City to employ alkasensor and
breathalizer devices for alcohol screen testing, provided they are operated by
persons properly trained in that use.
   RANDOM SCREEN TEST. A screen test taken on an unannounced and non-
predictable basis. The only City employees subject to RANDOM SCREEN TESTING
shall be employees holding Commercial Drivers' Licenses (hereinafter referred
to as “CDLs,” who are required to undergo such testing pursuant to 49 C.F.R.
Part 382 and members of the police and fire departments as well as supervisory
personnel.
   RETURN TO DUTY SCREEN TEST. A screen test required of an employee who has
been determined to have illegally used alcohol or prohibited drugs, for which
the results must be verified as negative before the employee is allowed to
return to work.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   In administering its Drug and Alcohol Policy, the City shall
only utilize the services of testing facilities certified by the United States
Department of Transportation as qualified to gather, examine, test, maintain
and report the results of the testing of specimens taken from City employees.
Before allowing a testing facility to report the results of any screen testing,
the testing facility shall certify to the City that it meets or exceeds the
requirements set out in 49 C.F.R. Part 40, as amended or otherwise modified,
concerning quality control procedures for workplace drug testing programs.
         (b)   All City employees shall, sign appropriate authorizations at the
testing facility to submit to all prohibited drug and alcohol testing required
by the Policy.
         (c)   All records concerning the City's implementation of this policy
shall be maintained at City Hall in a secure location with controlled access.
Such records shall be maintained by the City in the applicable employee's or
applicant's medical file for a period of not less than five (5) years following
their generation.
         (d)   This Policy shall be administered by the City in a strictly
confidential manner. Only those persons with a legitimate need to know shall be
given access to information or records generated as the result of the City's
implementation of this policy. The Mayor shall, upon the written request from
an employee, release the employee's records generated under this policy to the
employee, their legal counsel, a subsequent employer or any other person
specifically authorized by the employee. The Mayor may also release records
generated under this policy pursuant to a valid subpoena, court order or other
appropriate legal process.
         (e)   No finding of “positive” on a screen test shall be acted upon
until the results of the screen test are validated by confirmation testing.
         (f)   City managerial and supervisory personnel charged with the
responsibility for implementing and administering this Policy shall receive at
least four (4) hours of training on alcohol misuse and four (4) hours of
training on drug misuse from a knowledgeable person prior to assuming such
responsibilities. Thereafter, refresher training shall be conducted no less
frequently than annually. Records showing that such training has occurred will
be maintained at City Hall.
         (g)   All employees shall be provided with a copy of this policy and a
representative of the City shall be made available to those persons to answer
any questions concerning this policy. The City shall also make available to its
employees information concerning the effects of alcohol and drug abuse on the
employee's health, work and personal life; the signs and symptoms of alcohol
and drug abuse; and available methods or assistance programs for dealing with
alcohol and drug abuse.
      (2)   Probable cause screen testing.
         (a)   The City may require an employee to submit to probable cause
screen testing when it is determined, based upon reasonable suspicion, that the
employee is using or is under the influence of alcohol or a prohibited drug.
“Reasonable suspicion” shall be based upon specific, contemporaneous,
articularly observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech or body
odors of the employee, or some other equally reliable indicator
         (b)   Those persons eligible to determine that probable cause exists
shall be appropriately trained to make such determinations before ordering an
employee to submit to screen testing. The required training shall, at a
minimum, include the subject matter described in 49 C.F.R. 382.601 and 382.603,
as amended or otherwise modified. Persons making probable cause determinations
shall make a written record of their observations and the basis for their
findings within twenty-four (24) hours of the observed behavior, or prior to
the release of the results of the testing, whichever is earlier.
         (c)   An employee subject to probable cause testing shall be
immediately escorted to the appropriate testing facility by a supervisor
         (d)   After completing probable cause testing, the employee may be
suspended from work until the City receives the test results. If the employee
is so suspended, the City will make arrangements to transport the employee home
or to some other appropriate place, such suspension period will be with pay.
         (e)   Those persons making probable cause determinations shall not
participate in any manner in the specimen gathering, testing, analysis or
reporting process.
         (f)   The probable cause determination must be made by both a
supervisor and one member of the Board of Works.
      (3)   Post-accident screen testing. Post-accident screen testing shall be
conducted as soon as practicable following the accident. If possible, testing
for alcohol shall be conducted within two (2) hours and for prohibited drugs
within thirty-two (32) hours following the accident.
      (4)   Random screen testing. Random screen testing for City employees
subject to random testing shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions
of 49 C.F.R. 382.305, as amended or otherwise modified. The minimum annual
percentage rate for tested employees shall be fifty percent (50%) of the
average number of positions.
      (5)   Return to duty screen testing. If an employee is eligible to return
to work after committing an alcohol related act prohibited by this policy, the
employee shall undergo alcohol screen testing before returning to work, the
results of which must indicate an alcohol concentration of 0% in the employee's
system. If an employee has committed a drug related act prohibited by this
policy, the employee shall undergo drug screen testing before returning to
work, the results of which must be negative.
      (6)   Follow-up testing. Employees who have returned to work following
the commission of alcohol or drug related acts prohibited by this policy, shall
be subject to unannounced screen testing for a period of sixty (60) months
following the date of the employee's return to duty.
   (F)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Pursuant to the Drug Free Work Place Act, 41 USC § 701, each
employee is hereby notified that the unlawful manufacture, distribution,
dispensation, possession or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the
workplace and punishment, up to and including discharge, for violation of this
policy will be imposed.
      (2)   No employee shall report for duty, remain on duty, or otherwise
engage in any safety- sensitive work function while on duty, with a blood or
breath level of alcohol concentration greater than 0.02%. Any employee who
reports to work with a breath or blood alcohol concentration between 0.02% and
.039% shall be sent home, without pay, for the workday and shall be subject to
discipline under the appropriate discipline policy applicable to the employee.
      (3)   No employee, while on duty, shall operate a motor vehicle while
possessing alcohol.
      (4)   No employee shall use alcohol for eight (8) hours following an
accident which would subject the employee to post-accident screen testing,
unless such testing has already occurred.
      (5)   No employee or applicant for employment shall test positive for
alcohol or drug use as the result of screen testing and confirmation testing
conducted under this policy.
   (G)   Sanctions.
      (1)   Employees who commit any of the acts prohibited by this policy
shall be subject to disciplinary action under the policy applicable to the
employee which may include discharge.
      (2)   Employees who refuse to execute required authorizations will be
deemed insubordinate and shall be subject to disciplinary action which may
include discharge.
      (3)   Employees who refuse to submit to screen testing will be deemed
insubordinate and shall be subject to disciplinary action which may include
discharge.
      (4)   Employees who falsify or adulterate their specimens, or who allow
their specimens to be tested knowing they have been adulterated, will be
immediately discharged.
   (H)   Applicability of state and federal rules and regulations.
      (1)   In implementing this policy, the City is attempting in good faith
to comply with all appropriate state and federal statutes, rules and
regulations governing alcohol and drug abuse programs in the workplace. To the
extent that any portion of this policy is or becomes invalid or unenforceable
because it is in conflict with any such statute, rule or regulation, the
offending portion shall be deemed to have been amended so as to comply with the
applicable statute, rule or regulation.
      (2)   The City also recognizes that the rules and regulations governing
alcohol and drug testing for employees holding CDLs, presently set out in 49
C.F.R. Part 382, are somewhat more comprehensive than those set forth in this
policy. Accordingly, employees with CDLs are hereby advised that they are
subject to the program set forth in 49 C.F.R. Part 382, in addition to the
terms and conditions of this policy. The City shall maintain a copy of 49
C.F.R. Part 382, as amended or otherwise modified, for inspection by City
employees with questions concerning that regulation.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96; Am. Ord. 2017-8, passed 5-24-17)
§ 34.09 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   It is the City's policy to prohibit harassment of employees and
prospective employees on the basis of sex. All members of management are
responsible for the effective administration of this policy.
      (2)   Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other
verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment
when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as a basis for employment decisions affecting the individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of interfering with an
individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive
working environment.
      (3)   All forms of sexual harassment are prohibited whether verbal,
nonverbal or physical.
      (4)   Sexual harassment includes, but is not limited to repeated
offensive sexual flirtations, advances or propositions; continued or repeated
commentaries about an individual's body; offensive sexual language; and the
display in the work place of sexually suggestive pictures or objects.
      (5)   Employees who believe they have been sexually harassed should
follow the steps outlined in the problem solving procedure described in
division (B).
   (B)   Problem solving procedure.
      (1)   A goal of the City of Boonville is to treat employees fairly and
equally. We encourage employees to make to make management aware of their
concerns. Complaints and disagreements should be dealt with promptly and as
near the point of origin as possible. Under no circumstances will an employee
be penalized for presenting a complaint to the City. It is the City of
Boonville's policy that all employees have a right to work in an environment
free of discrimination, which includes freedom from sexual or any other form of
harassment of an employee feels discriminated against or sexually harassed
(both of which are against the City of Boonville's policy), the City urges the
employee to report it immediately to his or her supervisor. If for some reason
the supervisor is not available, or the employee does not feel comfortable
talking to the supervisor, the employee should talk to his or her Department
Head.
      (2)   If the employee likewise feels uncomfortable talking to the
Department Head, the City urges the employee to contact the Mayor or the Law
Department. The City will make every effort to resolve the complaint and
protect the confidence of the employee. No employee will suffer retaliation for
initiating investigations or lodging complaints.
      (3)   If wrongdoing is established, appropriate corrective action will be
taken. This corrective action can include discipline, up to and including
termination, of an employee whose actions have been contrary to the City's
policies. If the matter is not resolved to the employee's satisfaction by the
employee's supervisor, or department head, the employee should contact the
Mayor
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96)
§ 34.10 RETIREMENT.
   All employees shall be protected by the rights and privileges granted them
by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as last amended.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96)
§ 34.11 HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE.
   (A)   The City shall provide, at the City's cost, health insurance, except
that each City employee will be responsible for the following health insurance
bi-weekly premium:
 
TYPE OF COVERAGE     YEAR OF COVERAGE
                     2012   2013   2014
A. Employee          $20.00 $20.00 $20.00
B. Employee/Spouse   $30.00 $30.00 $30.00
C. Employee/Children $40.00 $40.00 $40.00
D. Family            $50.00 $50.00 $50.00
 
   (B)   Premiums are effective January 1, 2012 and expiring December 31, 2014.
   (C)   In the event of the death of a City of Boonville employee covered by
life insurance the City of Boonville, Indiana will pay the required death
benefits set by Indiana Law to a surviving spouse and eligible children.
   (D)   Air medical benefits.
      (1)   The City is authorized to and may provide its employees, including
but not limited to full-time employees and/or part-time employees, with air
medical and emergency benefits.
      (2)   The City, by its duly authorized representatives, is authorized to
enter into such agreements as may be reasonably necessary to provide the
desired air medical and emergency benefits, and any prior action of the Common
Council authorizing air medical benefits is hereby ratified.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96; Am. Ord. 2004-27, passed 12-22-04; Am. Ord.
2004-28, passed 12-22-04; Am. Ord. 2013-1, passed 2-7-13; Am. Ord. 2024-3,
passed 3-6-24)
§ 34.12 EMPLOYMENT AT WILL.
   All non-police and non-fire employees covered by this policy are employees
at will. All police and fire employees are employees at will in the first year
of employment unless the Board of Public Works and Safety sets a shorter
period.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96)
§ 34.13 UNIFORM ALLOWANCE.
   Uniform allowances for police and fire shall be as determined by the Board
of Public Works and Safety consistent with the City's annual budget.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-27-96)
§ 34.14 ADDITIONAL EXPENSES.
   (A)   The City will allow City employees to use the City credit card for
necessary travel expenses that have been pre-approved by the Mayor, Clerk-
Treasurer or his/her designee for air fare, lodging, car rental, tolls,
parking, and meals along with tips. All expenses shall be subject to
documentation by receipt, and any other documentation requested to substantiate
said expense.
   (B)   The City will reimburse mileage incurred by employees in driving
personal vehicles for City business, other than for travel to and from work and
home daily, as authorized by the Mayor or his/her designee, at the federal
reimbursement rate, as periodically amended.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 2-2-89; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 12-22-04; Am. Ord. 2016-
2, passed 4-7-16; Am. Ord. 2023-7, passed 8-8-23)
§ 34.15 PERSONAL DAYS.
   All full-time employees of the City of Boonville, with the exception of any
department covered by a collective bargaining agreement, firefighters and
elected officials, shall be entitled to two (2) eight (8)-hour personal days
each calendar year. Personal days must be used within the calendar year in
which they accrue, and cannot be carried over to the next calendar year.
Personal days shall be paid in hourly wages, at straight time pay rate.
Personal days shall accrue on January 1st of each year. Employees who have not
worked on January lst of a given calendar year, shall not accrue personal days
until January 1st of the following year.
(Ord. 2000-25, passed 2-12-01; Am. Ord. 2003-9, passed 9-5-03; Am. Ord. 2013-1,
passed 2-7-13)
§ 34.16 LONGEVITY PAY.
   All current full-time employees of the City of Boonville, except elected
officials and any employee covered by a collective bargaining agreement with
one (1) year of continuous service, shall be entitled to longevity pay. These
employees shall be paid fifty dollars ($50.00) gross, for each calendar year of
continuous employment, after the first year of employment. Longevity pay shall
be paid to the employee in January, in the first payroll of the month,
following the first year of employment.
(Ord. 2000-25, passed 2-12-01; Am. Ord. 2001-10, passed 7-12-01; Am. Ord. 2002-
7, passed 9-3-02; Am. Ord. 2003-9, passed 9-5-03; Am. Ord. 2013-1, passed 2-7-
13)
§ 34.17 PAY IN LIEU OF EXCESS VACATION.
   Any full-time employee of the City of Boonville, who has accumulated up to
eighty (80) hours of vacation time, shall be required to take up to eighty (80)
hours of vacation time during his or her twelve (12) month calendar year
employment period. Any vacation time accrued, in excess of eighty (80) hours,
may be taken in hourly pay, payable at straight time rate, in lieu of time off.
(Ord. 2000-25, passed 2-12-01)
§ 34.18 RETIREES INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any person who has qualified for and obtained retirement status for
full-time employment status rendered to the City of Boonville, Indiana, for a
minimum of twenty (20) years within INPRS (Indiana Public Retirement System-
PERF), ten of the twenty (20) years must be with the City of Boonville, shall
be entitled to obtain and extend coverage from medical insurance policies which
are in effect between the City of Boonville, Indiana, and third-party insurers
for the retiree and their spouse, so long as the retiree and/or spouse shall
pay the percentage of cost set forth in division (B) of this section for the
coverage of the retiree and/or spouse, and provided the third-party insurer
will cover the retiree and/or spouse, at the time of application to the third
party insurer for coverage.
   (B)   (1)   After twenty (20) years full-time employment within INPRS
(Indiana Public Retirement System-PERF), ten (10) of which shall be with the
City of Boonville, the retiree and/or spouse shall pay fifteen percent (15%) of
the insurance premium paid by the City of Boonville for the coverage of the
retiree and/or spouse.
      (2)   After twenty-five (25) years full-time employment within INPRS
(Indiana Public Retirement System-PERF), ten (10) of which shall be with the
City of Boonville, the retiree and/or spouse shall pay five percent (5%) of the
insurance premium paid by the City of Boonville for the coverage of the retiree
and/or spouse.
      (3)   After thirty (30) years full-time employment within INPRS (Indiana
Public Retirement System-PERF), ten (10) of which shall be with the City of
Boonville, the City of Boonville shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the
insurance premium paid for the coverage of the retiree and/or spouse.
   (C)   When the retiree and/or spouse reaches the age of sixty-five (65), the
medical insurance coverage shall be converted to a Medicare Supplement Plan,
which is in effect between the City of Boonville and a third-party insurer that
the City of Boonville chooses. The retiree and/or spouse must have Medicare
Part A and B to qualify. The portion of the premium paid by the retiree and/or
spouse, and the City of Boonville, shall be the same as outlined in division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   In the event the retiree divorces, the former spouse will no longer be
eligible for benefits provided by this section.
   (E)   In the event the retiree marries or remarries, after retirement, the
spouse shall be eligible for benefits provided by this section.
   (F)   In the event the retiree dies, the surviving spouse shall be eligible
to retain the benefits provided by this section so long as the spouse does not
remarry, and the income of the surviving spouse does not exceed three (3) times
the poverty level guideline of the United States Office of Management and
Budget.
   (G)   Retirement status shall be provided to those former full-time
employees who have qualified through the Indiana Public Employees Retirement
Fund, Policemen's or Firemen's Fund, or any other Indiana retirement program
based solely upon the retiree's former full-time employment with the City of
Boonville.
   (H)   In the event a retiree chooses not to go immediately on the City of
Boonville's retiree insurance benefit, upon retirement, the retiree and/or
spouse will still be eligible for the Medicare Supplement Plan provided by this
section, provided that the coverage in effect at the time of application
provides coverage to retirees and/or spouses, and that there are no-exclusions
which prevent coverage, as determined by the insurer. The retiree must be
covered for their spouse to receive benefits provided by this section. In the
event the retiree and/or spouse is required to pay a higher rate than that
which is required by the City of Boonville employees, the retiree and/or
spouse, will be required to pay that amount which is above said amount. In
addition to the percentage outlined in division (B).
   (I)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide information to retirees upon
retirement regarding benefits provided by this section. It shall be the duty of
the retiree and/or spouse to communicate with the insurer regarding
application, benefits and coverage questions. Application for coverage and
applicable administration of benefit questions shall be communicated by the
retiree and/or spouse directly to the insurer or their designated agent.
   (J)   This section shall apply to and be effective for all persons retiring
from full-time employment with the City of Boonville, and their spouses,
subject to the conditions and qualifications outlined herein.
(Ord. 2023-3, passed 5-9-23)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND TAXES
Section
   
35.01   Municipal motor vehicle license excise wheel surtax
   
35.02   Municipal wheel tax
§ 35.01 MUNICIPAL MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE EXCISE WHEEL SURTAX.
   (A)   Creation of fund. There is hereby created a municipal surtax fund,
which shall be a non-reverting fund. Revenues received from the Department of
Motor Vehicles from taxes imposed under this section shall be deposited into
the fund.
   (B)   Tax rates. Effective January 1, 2018 and in accordance with I.C. 6-
3.5-10-2(c), the surtax shall be impose at the following rates:
      (1)   Passenger vehicles: $25 per year.
      (2)   Motorcycles: $15 per year.
      (3)   Trucks with a declared gross weight that does not exceed 11,000
pounds: $25 per year.
      (4)   Motor driven cycles: $7.50 per year.
   (C)   Vehicle definitions. The definitions set forth in the Act shall apply
to this section.
   (D)   Uses of fund. Funds in the municipal surtax fund may be used for one
or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   To construct, reconstruct, repair, or maintain streets and roads
under the city's jurisdiction;
      (2)   For the city's contribution to obtain a grant from the local road
and bridge matching grant fund pursuant to I.C. 8-23-30; and
      (3)   Any other lawful purposes as may be permitted by the Act.
   (E)   Transportation asset management plan. The City Engineer shall prepare
a transportation asset management plan, approved by the Indiana Department of
Transportation, as required by I.C. 6-3.5-10-2(e) and 6-3.5-11-2(c), and submit
a copy of such plan to the Common Council on or before August 1 of each year.
   (F)   Accounting of fund. On or before August 1 of each year, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall provide the Common Council an estimate of the surtax revenues
to be received by the city under this section during the next calendar year.
The city shall include the estimated surtax revenues in the city's budget
estimate for the calendar year.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-9-17)
§ 35.02 MUNICIPAL WHEEL TAX.
   (A)   Creation of fund. There is hereby created a municipal wheel tax fund,
which shall be a non-reverting fund. Revenues received from the Department of
Motor Vehicles from taxes imposed under this section shall be deposited into
the fund.
   (B)   Tax rates. Effective January 1, 2018 and in accordance with I.C. 6-
3.5-11-2(d), the wheel tax shall be imposed on the following non-exempt
vehicles at the following rates:
      (1)   Buses: $25 per year.
      (2)   Recreational Vehicles: $7.50 per year.
      (3)   Semitrailers: $7.50 per year.
      (4)   Tractors: $25 per year.
      (5)   Trailers: $7.50 per year.
      (6)   Trucks: $25 per year.
   (C)   Vehicle definitions. The definitions set forth in the Act shall apply
to this section.
   (D)   Uses of fund. Funds in the municipal wheel tax fund may be used for
one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   To construct, reconstruct, repair, or maintain streets and roads
under the city's jurisdiction;
      (2)   As a contribution to an authority established under I.C. 36-7-23;
      (3)   For the city's contribution to obtain a grant from the local road
and bridge matching grant fund under I.C. 8-23-30; and
      (4)   Any other lawful purposes as may be permitted by the Act.
   (E)   Transportation asset management plan. The City Engineer shall prepare
a transportation asset management plan as required in Sec.
54.01(5).
   (F)   Accounting of fund. On or before August 1 of each year, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall provide the Common Council an estimate of the wheel tax
revenues to be received by the city under this section during the next calendar
year. The city shall include the estimated wheel tax revenues in the city's
budget estimate for the calendar year.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-9-17)

TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   UTILITIES
   
51.   SOLID WASTE
   
52.   GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
      
APPENDIX A: SELF REPAIRS AFFIDAVIT
      
APPENDIX B: PLUMBER'S AFFIDAVIT
      
APPENDIX C: SWIMMING POOL FILL AFFIDAVIT
   
53.   WATER
   
54.   SEWERS
   
55.   ELECTRICITY; LIGHT AND POWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Control of utilities
   
50.02   Plans required for construction
   
50.03   Utility marking
§ 50.01 CONTROL OF UTILITIES.
   All Boonville owned utilities shall be controlled by the Board of Works of
the City of Boonville until such time the Boonville Common Council shall act
upon the recommendation of the utility advisory committee established by the
Common Council.
(Ord. 1993-21, passed 9-23-93)
§ 50.02 PLANS REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Prior to the commencement of any public works program listed below in
any unincorporated area written approval must be obtained from the Warrick
County Area Plan Commission. In order to secure such approval, the Engineer,
Surveyor, Consulting Engineer or the owner shall submit to the said Warrick
County Area Planning Commission complete plans and specifications for the
construction of:
      (1)   Any public water system;
      (2)   Any sanitary storm sewer system;
      (3)   Any gas distribution system; and/or
      (4)   Any street or highway system.
   (B)   In any unincorporated area in which the construction of the above is
contemplated and by this construction it is necessary to connect to or extend
any existing or proposed system lying outside the corporate limits of all towns
and cities the Clerk-Treasurer of said town or city must file the above
construction plans with the Warrick County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 1966, passed 9-6-66)
§ 50.03 UTILITY MARKING.
   (A)   The City of Boonville's Utility Marking policy is hereby established
in the City.
   (B)   This policy shall apply to any public utility company, a utility
company operated by a government agency, or to any other entity, whether public
or private, conducting work, such as excavation or demolition that would
require the marking of utility systems, on any roadway, pavement, sidewalk, or
any public right-of-way located within the boundaries of the City of Boonville.
   (C)   Any designated employee of the City of Boonville shall enforce the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   The application and removal of utility markings shall be as follows:
      (1)   Any person marking a utility system on any impervious or hard
surfaces shall only use temporary, removable, water-based spray paints or
temporary, removable marking chalk.
      (2)   The size of any area of excavation that requires marking of
underground utilities shall be observed in accordance with Indiana 811 and I.C.
8-1-26.
      (3)   The removal of such utility markings shall be the responsibility of
the utility company that made or directed the markings. The utility markings
shall be removed within 30 days of the original utility marking or upon
completion of the project.
   (E)   The City of Boonville shall notify the utility company of any
remaining utility markings on any roadway, pavement, sidewalk, or any public
right-sof-way following the completion of the project or within thirty (30)
days of the original utility marking for which the marks were made.
   (F)   The notification to the utility company shall require the removal of
the utility markings within thirty (30) working days. The thirty (30) working
days shall run from the date of notice. Upon the expiration of this period, the
City of Boonville is hereby authorized to remove the utility markings without
further notice to the utility company and assess to the utility company the
full cost incurred by the City of Boonville to affect such removal. The day
before the scheduled removal of the utility markings, the City of Boonville
shall contact Indiana 811 to confirm that no notifications to excavate are
pending for the subject area.
   (G)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be fined one
thousand dollars ($1,000) per violation. Payment of all penalties or additional
costs under any of the provisions of this section shall be made to the City of
Boonville.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 2-23-21)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section.
General Provisions.
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Responsibilities of owner or occupant; compliance required
   
51.03   Board of Public Works; authorization
   
51.04   Preparation of waste
   
51.05   Types of waste
   
51.06   Containers; number and placement
   
51.07   Available services; deposit and removal
   
51.08   Accumulations; nuisances
   
51.09   Interference prohibited
   
51.10   Unlawful dumping
   
51.11   Littering; scattering of refuse
   
51.12   Cleaning vacated lots
   
51.13   Open burning prohibited
   
51.14   Home disposals.
Solid Waste Collection.
   
51.25   License required; compliance
   
51.26   Application procedure
   
51.27   Indemnification
   
51.28   Vehicle requirements
   
51.29   Fees, bonds and insurance requirements
   
51.30   Revocation of license
   
51.31   Conditions of operation
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULKY WASTE. Bicycle parts, lawn mower parts, vehicle parts and farm
implements. Household wastes such as stoves, refrigerators, water tanks,
washing machines, furniture, toilets and any other matter of this nature.
   BUNDLE. Tree, shrub and brush trimmings, newspapers and/or magazines
securely tied together forming an easily handled package, not to exceed three
feet in length or forty pounds in weight.
   COMMERCIAL REFUSE. The miscellaneous waste material, such as garbage,
rubbish and ashes, resulting from the operation of business enterprises and
institutions. Such term includes construction waste, but excludes industrial
trade waste.
   CONTAINER. A receptacle with a capacity of twenty gallons or greater,
constructed of plastic, metal or fiberglass, having a tight-fitting lid, being
water tight and vermin-proof. No CONTAINER shall have jagged or sharp edges or
any other defect liable to hamper or injure any person depositing refuse in or
collecting the contents thereof.
   CURBSIDE. That portion of a right-of-way adjacent to paved or traveled City
roadways.
   CURBSIDE UNLIMITED. A residential premises refuse collection service option
which allows the customer to place an unlimited amount of residential refuse at
the curb for pick-up once a week.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attends the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste, or a combination of waste and other discarded
material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material,
which, because of its quality, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, may cause or significantly contribute to an
increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible illness or serious
incapacitating, but reversible illness, or pose a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health or the environment, if improperly treated,
stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed. HAZARDOUS WASTE, for
purposes of this chapter, does not include material which is sold for recycling
or treatment and stored for one year or less, solid or dissolved material in
domestic sewer discharge, solid or dissolved material in an irrigation return
flow discharge, authorized industrial discharge to a Municipal treatment system
or industrial discharge which is a point source subject to permits under
Section 402 of the Clean Water Act of 1977, 33 USC § 1342, or is a source,
special nuclear or byproduct material, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of
1954, 42 USC §§ 2011 to 2282.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. All trade wastes peculiar to industrial manufacturing or
processing plants, including hazardous refuse, but not including commercial
refuse.
   LICENSEE. A person who has been issued a license by the City to collect,
transport or dispose of residential refuse within the City.
   MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. A parcel of land containing five or more
residential units.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Commercial, industrial or other institutional
premises.
   OPEN BURNING. Any fire wherein the products of combustion are emitted into
the open air and are not directed thereto through a stack, chimney or approved
incinerator
   PLASTIC BAG. A polyethylene or similar PLASTIC BAG of not less than one and
one-half mils thickness, designed to store refuse and secured in a manner to
prevent spillage, leakage or other release of its contents by the use of wire,
string or ties appropriate for thus purpose. The total weight of a bag, and its
contents, shall not exceed forty pounds.
   PREMISES. A parcel of land including any building, improvement or
appurtenance thereon, which, by legal construction or by actuality, forms one
enclosure with it.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Glass (brown, green or clear), plastic No.2 (milk jugs
etc.), tin (soup cans, etc.), and aluminum, and such other material capable of
being recycled as may be specified.
   REFUSE. Putrescible material and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body
wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator
residue, small dead animals, bulky waste and solid construction, hazardous,
industrial and market wastes.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. A parcel of land containing four or fewer residential
units.
   RESIDENTIAL REFUSE. Refuse generated from normal household activity.
RESIDENTIAL REFUSE does not include commercial refuse, construction waste,
hazardous waste, industrial waste, small dead animals exceeding ten pounds in
weight or bulky items.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid waste, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible waste, including paper, cardboard, metal
containers, yard clippings, tree trimmings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery,
demolished building materials or litter of any kind that may be a detriment to
the public health and safety.
   SMALL DEAD ANIMALS. Carcasses of small animals, fish and fowl, not to exceed
ten pounds in weight.
   STORAGE. The accumulation of materials which are awaiting collection,
transportation and disposal.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97; Am. Ord. 2006-8, passed 8-23-06)
§ 51.02 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Every owner or person in possession of a residential or nonresidential
premises in the City of Boonville is required to have accumulations of refuse
removed and disposed of in accordance with this chapter and any and all other
applicable rules and regulations of the City.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any building, structure,
property or premises in the City shall store, collect, transport or dispose of
any refuse, garbage, rubbish or other rejected, unwanted or discharged waste
materials, except in compliance with this chapter and applicable State, Federal
and local laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.03 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS; AUTHORIZATION.
   The Board of Public Works is hereby authorized to make such rules and
regulations as from time to time are deemed reasonably necessary to carry out
the intent of this chapter, provided that such rules are not in conflict with
this chapter or any other law of the city or other appropriate governmental
unit. Failure to observe any approved rule or regulation shall be a violation
of this chapter. Such rules and regulations shall be published and available
for distribution at the City Clerk-Treasurer's office.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.04 PREPARATION OF WASTE.
   All garbage intended for collection shall be drained of all free liquid. The
garbage shall be wrapped or placed in plastic garbage bags.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.05 TYPES OF WASTE.
   (A)   The owner, contractor, occupant or other person responsible for
construction work shall remove from the land, within a reasonable time after
the completion of such construction work, all construction waste. Such material
shall be removed to an appropriate disposal area.
   (B)   Hazardous waste disposal shall be the responsibility of the person who
produced, used or possessed the same, and it shall not be disposed of within
the City.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.06 CONTAINERS; NUMBER AND PLACEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The owner and/or occupant of all premises within the City shall
provide containers of sufficient number and size for the storage of refuse
between collections. All containers shall be kept clean and in good repair.
      (2)   Arrangements may be made for the rental or purchase of trash
containers from any company operating under a license issued pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   All owners or persons in control of construction and demolition sites
shall provide adequate numbers of containers at the site for loose debris,
paper, building material waste and other trash produced by those working on the
site. All loose refuse shall be containerized at the end of each day, and the
site shall be kept in a reasonably clean and litter-free condition.
   (C)   (1)   All owners or persons in control of parking lots, including
drive-in restaurants, taverns, shopping centers, supermarkets and grocery
stores, shall have an adequate number of refuse containers. All persons using
such parking areas shall use such refuse receptacles or containers for the
purpose intended, and no person shall dump, scatter or throw upon any such
parking lot any refuse, garbage or trash of any kind.
      (2)   Owners or persons in control of properties being used for
commercial purposes shall not use areas plainly visible to the public as
storage areas for inventory, stored or discarded items. Such items shall either
be properly disposed of, or removed to storage areas not plainly visible to the
public.
   (D)   (1)   Garbage shall be wrapped or placed in appropriate containers.
Rubbish shall be placed in a container so as to prevent scattering or
littering, or may be cut, baled, tied, bundled or packaged so as not to exceed
40 pounds in weight or three feet in length. Residential refuse that is larger
than that which can be stored according to this section shall be stored in
accordance with rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Only recyclable materials shall be placed in bins used for
recyclable pickup.
   (E)   (1)   Every owner, occupant or person in possession of residential
premises in the City shall provide for his or her residential unit adequate
numbers of proper containers or receptacles, as provided in this chapter.
Containers must be located in such a manner as to prevent them from being
overturned, and be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, free from any
substance which will attract or breed flies, mosquitoes or other insects.
      (2)   Every owner, occupant or person in possession of residential
premises in the City shall keep recyclable material bins and garbage containers
in a clean and sanitary condition and free from any substance which will
attract or breed flies, mosquitoes, or other insects. The bins and containers
must be located in such a manner so as to prevent them from being overturned.
      (3)   Rubbish and yard waste which cannot be secured in a container may
be secured in bundles or may be deposited in plastic bags.
      (4)   For bulky waste, containerization is not required. However, such
bulky items shall be secured so as to prevent scattering.
      (5)   No person shall use plastic bags for unprotected outdoor storage of
refuse, other than for leaves or other lawn debris. Plastic bags containing all
forms of refuse may be set out for scheduled collection in accordance with the
rules set forth in this chapter. Storage of plastic bags containing refuse
shall be considered unprotected when not used as liners for approved containers
or not placed in an enclosure affording reasonable protection from damage by
animals.
      (6)   No person shall use the refuse container of another.
      (7)   No person shall store refuse or recyclable material in the front of
their premises except in accordance with this chapter.
   (F)   For curbside unlimited collection, all containers, bags, bundles and
bulky wastes shall be placed at the curbside in a manner to prevent scattering.
The licensee may decline to collect any container, bag, bundle and bulky waste
not so placed. Doors from refrigerators and freezers must be removed before
being stored for collection. Freon must be removed by a State certified
technician and the item appropriately tagged prior to pick-up.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.07 AVAILABLE SERVICES; DEPOSIT AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   For residential premises, and for mobile home parks, licensees
shall:
         (a)   Include, with every option for solid waste collection, the
pickup of recyclable materials at least twice a month.
         (b)   Provide the option of unlimited curbside collection service (to
include pickup of garbage, refuse, leaves, lawn debris and twice a month
recyclable pickup.)
      (2)   Licensee may offer other options for different types of collection
service to owners and/or occupants of dwelling units, but licensee must include
the pickup of recyclable materials at least twice a month with any other option
of collection service offered to owners and/or occupants at residential
premises, and to owners and/or occupants of individual dwelling units in mobile
home parks.
   (B)   For residential premises, recyclable material, garbage or refuse shall
not be placed for collection earlier than two hours prior to sundown on the day
preceding the day of scheduled pickup. After the collection of refuse and/or
recyclable material has been made, empty bins and containers shall be removed
from the curb area no later than 9:00 a.m. on the day following collection.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.08 ACCUMULATIONS; NUISANCES.
   (A)   Accumulations or deposits of refuse on any premises, or commercial
inventory, or stored or discarded items that are visible to the public, are
hereby declared to be a nuisance. No owner or occupant of any premises or
property within the City shall permit the accumulation of refuse upon the
premises or property for a period of more than seven (7) days. No person shall
permit accumulations or deposits of refuse, or commercial inventory, or stored
or discarded items that are visible to the public, to remain upon premises
occupied or owned by him or her, except as permitted by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The City shall first investigate the existence of an alleged
nuisance to determine whether or not a nuisance exists and to further determine
the person who has created or is committing or maintaining such nuisance.
      (2)   The City shall then give written notice to the person responsible
for the creation, commission or maintenance of such nuisance, specifying in
particular the nature thereof, the corrective action to be taken to abate the
same and the time limit for the abatement of such nuisance, which shall be not
less than three (3) days nor more than seven (7) days, the determination to be
made by the City Code Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   If at the expiration of the time limit such notice, either the person
responsible for the commission, creation or maintenance of the nuisance, or the
owner of the property, has not complied, the City may initiate such cleanup as
identified in the notice. The cost of such cleanup shall be a debt owed to the
City by the person responsible for the commission, creation or maintenance of
such nuisance, and the owner of the property, such costs, including any
reasonable attorney fees, and other costs incurred to enforce compliance with
the ordinance.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97; Am. Ord. 2002-9, passed 8-8-02)
§ 51.09 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person, other than the owner or person lawfully in control of
any premises, or any authorized employee of a person licensed by the City for
the removal of refuse, shall interfere in any manner with a container or
plastic bags used for the accumulation or storage of refuse or recyclable
material or remove any such container from the location where it shall have
been placed by the owner or person lawfully in control of the premises; nor
shall any such person disturb or remove refuse or recyclable material placed
for collection.
      (2)   No person shall permit an animal owned by them to tip-over, molest
or otherwise disturb trash containers placed for collection.
   (B)   No person shall scavenge or rifle refuse left for disposal, or damage
or destroy bags or containers of refuse placed for storage or collection.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.10 UNLAWFUL DUMPING.
   No person shall dump, deposit, place or scatter any refuse, ashes or yard
wastes within the City, except at an approved disposal area and in compliance
with applicable local, State and Federal laws, rules and regulations. Any
person illegally dumping such refuse within the City shall pay all applicable
penalties, as well as the costs of cleaning-up the illegal dumping, and any
other expense related to enforcing this section, including reasonable attorney
fees.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.11 LITTERING; SCATTERING OF REFUSE.
   No person shall cast, spill, place or sweep or deposit anywhere within the
City any refuse in such manner that it may be carried or deposited by the
elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other public
place, or onto any other premises within the City.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.12 CLEANING VACANT LOTS.
   Any person owning or having a possessory interest in any lot or parcel of
land within the City which is vacant is responsible for securing, collecting
and disposing of refuse which may accumulate thereon by contracting with a
person licensed in accordance with this chapter or by self-removal through
proper collection and storage of refuse, transporting the refuse in a manner to
prevent littering or any other nuisance and depositing the same at an approved
disposal area, in accordance with applicable local, State and Federal laws,
rules and regulations.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.13 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any open fire or authorize any such fire
to be kindled or maintained on any premises without having obtained a permit or
other proper authorization from the Board of Public Works. This restriction
shall not apply to residential fireplaces or to the use of charcoal and similar
materials for the purpose of food preparation. Burning of garbage, small dead
animals, any material made of, or coated with rubber, plastic, leather,
petroleum-based materials or flammable or combustible liquids is prohibited.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.14 HOME DISPOSALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of property within the City of
Boonville, Indiana, to cause to be installed, placed and used after January 1,
1969, in each dwelling unit with kitchen facilities, a mechanical home use
garbage disposal unit, connected to the kitchen drains and sanitary drains of
said dwelling unit.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall establish procedures which
provide for the issuance of variance permits for the installation of garbage
disposal to those persons who, upon petition, establish a special hardship or
poverty as a reason for not complying with the terms of this chapter, and which
variance may be granted for a term of one (1) year and may be renewed from time
to time while reasons for non-compliance shall continue.
(Ord. 1968-9, passed 8-1-68)
**** SOLID WASTE COLLECTION ****
§ 51.25 LICENSE REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of collection, transportation
or disposal of refuse in the City without first obtaining a license as provided
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The licensee shall at all times comply with all requirements of this
chapter and all rules and regulations issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.26 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for a license under this chapter shall be made in writing
to the Board of Public Works upon forms furnished by the City. The Board of
Works may issue no more than three (3) annual licenses at any given time.
   (B)   Each applicant shall provide the following information on the
application:
      (1)   Name of individual or corporation completing application.
      (2)   Residence or business address.
      (3)   The number, year and style of vehicles to be used and owned by the
applicant, and whether they are owned or leased.
      (4)   Place or places where the vehicles are to be parked overnight.
      (5)   Whether applicant has ever been denied a license similar to the one
being requested, by any other municipality or governmental entity.
      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever had a similar license revoked by any
other municipality or governmental entity.
      (7)    How many years the applicant has been in business as a solid waste
hauler under the present business name.
      (8)   Supply a current financial statement of the company.
      (9)   Two municipal references.
      (10)   Customer fee schedule.
   (C)   Such application shall also contain a commitment by the applicant to
comply with the provisions of this chapter and all other laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations applicable to the conduct of such business.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.27 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A licensee shall indemnify the City from any and all liability, loss or
damage, including court costs and attorney fees, which the City may suffer from
as a result of claims, demands, settlements or judgments against it arising
from activities relating to refuse collection and disposal by licensee, for
which it is found legally liable.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.28 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All vehicles of any licensee carrying refuse under this chapter shall
have on both sides thereof a sign containing the name of the licensee, the
telephone number and number of the vehicle, all of which shall be painted in
plainly visible letters in a size required by D.O.T. regulations, or not less
than four (4) inches in height. The number of the vehicle shall be registered
in the office of the City Clerk- Treasurer.
   (B)   Vehicles used in the transportation of refuse shall be kept clean and
in good repair. The hauling body shall be watertight and completely enclosed on
all sides. Vehicles shall be maintained and operated so that no portion of
their contents is spilled or allowed to remain on any public highway. All
vehicles shall be cleaned at intervals frequent enough to maintain the unit in
a sanitary condition and as free from disagreeable odor as possible to prevent
nuisance or vermin attraction. A vehicle that fails to meet the requirements of
this chapter shall be removed from service until it complies or its use shall
be discontinued permanently.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.29 FEES, BONDS AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every person or company which engages in the business of collection,
transportation or disposal of refuse in the City shall meet the bonding and
reasonable insurance requirements established by the Board of Public Works of
the City. The license year shall be from January 1st to and including December
31st, and the fee shall be payable in advance.
   (B)   The licensing fee shall be $100.00 per year, plus $5.00 for each and
every collection vehicle to be used within the City. Said fee shall not be
prorated if the license was granted after January 1st of a given year.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.30 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works may consider the revocation of any license
issued pursuant to this chapter. The licensee shall be given an opportunity to
appear before the Board and present evidence as to why the license should not
be revoked.
   (B)   Grounds for revocation of a license shall include, but not be limited
to the following:
      (1)   The making of any false or misleading statements in the application
for a license.
      (2)   Operating the licensed vehicles in a manner causing or likely to
cause damage to persons or property.
      (3)   Conviction of a licensee or any employee of any licensee of any
criminal offense reasonably related to the issue of whether the licensee is
suitable to continue as a licensee.
      (4)   Violations by the licensee, any employees of the licensee, or any
agents or assigns of the licensee of any of the terms and provisions of this
chapter.
      (5)   The licensee, any employees of any licensee, or any agents or
assigns of the licensee using abusive language to City residents or employees,
creating a disturbance during the performance of work pursuant to this license,
damaging property during the performance of work pursuant to this license, or
creating or maintaining a traffic hazard during the performance of work
pursuant to this license.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
§ 51.31 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The openings of each vehicle shall be closed and doors or covers shall
be secured by an adequate latch or restraining mechanism to keep them closed
while transporting refuse. The driver and licensee shall see that the cover is
in the proper position. A special covering shall be used where conditions
require control of odor, vermin, liquids, dust or smoke.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to transfer the contents of all
containers for which they have contracted for collection with a customer into
vehicles licensed under this chapter, using care to avoid spilling. It shall be
the duty of the licensee or his or her designated agent to clean up all garbage
or rubbish spilled during collection, completely empty the containers, replace
the lids thereon, and return the container to its curbside collection spot.
   (C)   Each vehicle shall be loaded in a manner which minimizes the spilling
of materials.
   (D)   The operator of a refuse transporting unit shall be responsible for
immediately cleaning up any spillage that may occur.
   (E)   No vehicle shall be parked in a residential area longer than necessary
to collect refuse unless it is parked not less than 500 feet from adjacent
residences. Vehicles shall not be parked or stored at any location so as to
cause a hazard to health, or a nuisance.
   (F)   All licensees shall provide a local or toll-free telephone number to
all customers to receive complaints through normal daytime business hours and
provide someone to answer and dispose of such complaints within twenty-four
(24) hours of receipt.
   (G)   The licensee shall not damage cans which are owned by customers or
other property while making collections, and shall return cans, upright, to
their designated place of collection.
   (H)   A complaint log shall be maintained by the licensee indicating the
customer, the time and date complaints are received, and the time and date the
responsive action was taken. A copy of this log shall be made available to the
City upon request.
   (I)   No refuse shall be collected from residential premises in the City
except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
   (J)   Licensee shall not raise the rates or charges for the work performed
under this license during the duration of such license without prior
notification to the Board of Public Works.
   (K)   Licensees serving residential premises and mobile home parks shall
provide a semi-annual report to the City which lists the number and percentage
(%) of customers participating in recycling and which describes how and where
the recyclable materials are disbursed. The report shall include such
documentation, records, receipts and other objective information as shall be
reasonably necessary for the City to determine that no materials collected in
the recycling program were sent to a landfill, incinerator or otherwise not
properly recycled.
   (L)   Weight limits on trash collection vehicles shall not exceed those
permitted by the State of Indiana, 66,000 lb. gvw plate.
   (M)   Licensee shall provide, quarterly, a report to the City which, in
appropriate detail, describes the volume of refuse being hauled and disposed
of, the time it takes to make said disposal, and any other pertinent
information deemed necessary by the City.
(Ord. 1997-15, passed 12-18-97)
CHAPTER 52: GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
Section
   
52.01   Water and sewer adjustments
   
Appendix A: Self Repairs Affidavit
   
Appendix B: Plumber's Affidavit
   
Appendix C: Swimming Pool Fill Affidavit
§ 52.01 WATER AND SEWER ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any consumer shall have the right to demand that the meter
through which water is being furnished be examined and tested by the Boonville
Water Department for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not it is
registering correctly the amount of water which is being deliver through it by
the Boonville Water Department to such consumer.
      (2)   Upon such application being made, it shall be the duty of the
Boonville Water Department to cause the meter to be examined and tested in the
presence of the consumer, if possible, during normal business hours for the
purpose of ascertaining whether or not it is registering correctly the water
being delivered through it.
      (3)   Prior to such examination, a meter testing deposit shall be
collected from the consumer. The deposit based on meter size shall be
established, and from time to time amended, by resolution of the Common
Council.
      (4)   For any size meter, if the test proves the meter is not within plus
or minus three percent of the American Water Works Standards, the meter testing
fee will be refunded to the consumer and adjustments will be made to the water
and sewer charges on the consumer's most current utilities bills.
      (5)   If the consumer is not satisfied with tests performed by the
Boonville Water Department, the meter shall be tested by the manufacturer. The
consumer must agree to pay all costs of such further tests if the
manufacturer's results verify the utility's results. If the manufacturer's
results do not verify the Boonville Water Department's results, the Boonville
Water Department will bear all costs of said meter testing.
   (B)   Sewer adjustments will be given for first time filling of new swimming
pools one time only within the first year of purchase. An affidavit must be
filled out stating that it is a new swimming pool and accompanied by a receipt
of purchase. It must include the height, width and depth to calculate water
usage. Sewer adjustments will be given for a one-time refill adjustment due to
a repair on an existing pool. The repair is subject to the same time line as
new pool fill adjustments and must have an affidavit of repair along with the
receipt of repair made and will be subject to the Board of Works approval.
   (C)   (1)   Sewer abatement for leaks will be given for underground or
hidden leaks (like in walls). The consumer must file for abatement in writing
within fifteenth (15) days of receipt of the bill in dispute. No claimant or
consumer shall in any event be allowed an abatement or reduction of a bill that
is less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two (2) consecutive billing
periods. There will only be one sewer abatement allowed in one calendar year.
The consumer or the consumer’s plumber making repairs must file an affidavit
regarding the leakage with the application for adjustment. The consumer’s bill
in dispute will be adjusted to their average sewer usage if determined to be a
hidden or underground leak. This section does not apply to instances where a
leak is caused by the City or its agent, nor to instances of negligence of the
consumer, property owner or its agent. The disputed bill will be adjusted to
the average sewer usage of the previous six (6) months if determined to be a
hidden or underground leak.
      (2)   An adjustment for such a leak will be made to the consumer for half
of the excess water used over the yearly monthly average.
      (3)   If it can be shown that the excess water above the monthly average
did not go into the sewer, then no sewer charges will be assessed for excess
water over the average. If any part of the excess water went into the sewer,
the adjustment for the leak will be made to the consumer for half of the excess
water used over the yearly monthly average.
(Ord. 1998-16, passed 9-24-98; Am. Ord. 1999-2, passed 6-10-99; Am. Ord. 2000-
2, passed 3-9-00; Am. Ord. 2008-5, passed 6-5-08; Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-2-
18)
APPENDIX A: SELF REPAIRS AFFIDAVIT.
CITY OF BOONVILLE OR BOON TOWNSHIP
STATE OF INDIANA
BOONVILLE WATER AND WASTEWATER DEPARTMENT
PETITIONER AFFIDAVIT FOR SELF REPAIRS
THE UNDERSIGNED PETITIONER UPON DULY SWORN OATH SAYS:
That an underground or hidden leak existed at
                                                                           
since or on about the               day of                                   ,
                , which leak has been repaired by
                                                                 , the
petitioner.
                                                                                                             
                              Petitioner's signature
Subscribed and sworn to before me a Notary Public this             day of
                              ,        .
                                                                                                             
                              Notary Public
                              My commission expires
                             ,              .
IF REPAIRS WERE DONE BY PETITIONER, THREE WITNESSES
MUST ATTEST TO THIS REPAIR.
WITNESSES
Name:                                                                       
Date:                                     ,        .
Address:
                                                                                                                             
Name:                                                                       
Date:                                     ,        .
Address:
                                                                                                                             
Name:                                                                       
Date:                                     ,        .
Address:
                                                                                                                             
APPENDIX B: PLUMBER'S AFFIDAVIT.
CITY OF BOONVILLE OR BOON TOWNSHIP
STATE OF INDIANA
BOONVILLE WATER AND WASTEWATER DEPARTMENT
PLUMBER'S AFFIDAVIT
Petitioner's Portion.
THE UNDERSIGNED PETITIONER UPON DULY SWORN OATH SAYS:
That an underground or hidden leak existed at
                                                                          since
or on about the                  day of                                       ,
               , which leak has been repaired by
                                                                                            ,
a licensed plumber.
                                                                                                             
                              Petitioner's signature
Subscribed and sworn to before me a Notary Public this                 day of
                       ,           .
                                                                                                             
                              Notary Public
                              My commission expires
                                  ,         .
Plumber's Portion.
The undersigned                                               , a licensed
plumber, being duly sworn upon his oath says that he has repaired and
underground or hidden leak at
                                                        .
                              Date Repaired:
                                                        
The repairs required were as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                             
                              Plumbers signature
Subscribed and sworn to before me a Notary Public this               day of
                            ,        .
                                                                                                             
                              Notary Public
APPENDIX C: SWIMMING POOL FILL AFFIDAVIT.
STATE OF INDIANA         )
                  )   SS
WARRICK COUNTY         )
BOONVILLE WASTEWATER DEPARTMENT
SWIMMING POOL-FILL AFFIDAVIT
Petitioner.
The undersigned petitioner being duly sworn upon his/her oath deposes and says
that water was used for filling a new swimming pool
                                                                                   
(address) on or about the                day of                            ,
            and that the water did not go into the Boonville wastewater system.
Size of pool: length                        ; width                       ;
depth                    ; depth               
If not totally filled how many feet added:
                                                                                  
Petitioner understands that any adjustment received for a new pool filling is a
one-time (1) adjustment (from April 1st until the 15th day of June) and is
based on dimensions of the pool.
                                                                                                             
                              Petitioner's signature
                                                                                                             
                              Printed name
Date:                                              ,                     
Account No.:                                                         
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section.
General Provisions.
   
53.01   Tampering prohibited
   
53.02   Conservation and rationing
   
53.03   Rates and charges
   
53.04   Resale prohibited.
   
53.05   Municipal water utility
Use Regulations.
   
53.15   Definitions
   
53.16   Application procedure
   
53.17   Security deposits
   
53.18   Disconnection; notice
   
53.19   Delinquencies
   
53.20   Estimates and adjustments of bills
   
53.21   Copies of rules provided
   
53.22   Water and service quality
   
53.23   Modification and construction
   
53.24   Turning water on
   
53.25   Connection inspection fees
   
53.26   Protecting public water system from backflow contamination
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 53.01 TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, not authorized by the City of Boonville
or its agents, to tamper with, alter or otherwise injure any part of the City's
waterworks, supply system or water meter.
(Ord. 1997-6, passed 6-3-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 53.02 CONSERVATION AND RATIONING.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all persons, firms, partnerships, company,
associations, corporations or organizations of any kind connected to the public
water system or using water therefrom (“users”).
   (B)   Upon determining that the City of Boonville's public water system is
in imminent danger of a shortage of water or is experiencing a shortage of
water, the Board of Works shall declare a water conservation emergency and
establish the appropriate conservation measures and the duration thereof.
   (C)   The Board of Works of the City of Boonville reserves the right to
establish alternative rationing requirements for the following:
      (1)   Health care providers.
      (2)   A reasonable use of water to maintain adequate health and sanitary
standards.
      (3)   Those industrial and agricultural activities declared to be
necessary for the public health and well being.
   (D)   (1)   In accordance with division (G), users shall be requested to
reduce water consumption by practicing voluntary conservation techniques.
      (2)   The Board of Works suggest reasonable and meaningful actions which
will alleviate existing or potential water shortage.
   (E)   In accordance with division (G), users shall be prohibited from the
water uses listed below, subject to reasonable terms, times and conditions as
the Board of Works shall determine.
      (1)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass,
ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables or any other vegetation.
      (2)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad
cars or any other type or mobile equipment.
      (3)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, paved areas or other
outdoor surfaces.
      (4)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment or machinery.
      (5)   The filling of swimming pools, wading pools and ornamental
fountains.
      (6)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing.
      (7)   Bulk sales of water.
   (F)   In addition to the mandatory conservation measures of division (E)
above and in accordance with division (G) below, users shall be limited to
water use per the following.
      (1)   Residential use shall be limited to 30 gallons per person per day.
      (2)   Business, commercial and industrial users shall be limited to 60
percent of the volume of water used during the corresponding month of the
preceding year. Business, commercial or industrial users that were not in
business and operating in the area served by the Boonville public water system
more than one year prior to the declaration of need shall be restricted to 60
percent of the average monthly volume of water used during the number of months
such business, commercial or industrial user was in business and operating in
the public water supply area.
   (G)   Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be by publication in a
local newspaper of general circulation or other means as deemed appropriate by
the Board of Works. Notice of voluntary conservation shall be effective upon
publication. An urgent necessity requiring the immediate effectiveness of the
ordinance can be proclaimed by the Mayor pursuant to I.C. 36-4-6-14 (b).
Mandatory conservation and rationing shall be effective upon passage and the
proclamation of an urgent necessity requiring the immediate effectiveness of
this section.
(Ord. 1993-19, passed 8-4-93)
§ 53.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Water rates shall be as established by the Common Council from time to
time. Copies of the most current water rate ordinance shall be on file in the
City Clerk-Treasurer’s office, and shall be available for public inspection
during regular city office hours.
   (B)   Water, furnished to temporary users, such as contractors, etc., shall
be charged on the basis of the above gallonage rates as estimated by the
Waterworks Superintendent. When a meter is installed for such purposes, the
regular water rats and minimum charges shall apply and the temporary user shall
pay for the installation and removal of the meter.
   (C)   All bills for water services not paid within fifteen (15) days from
the due date thereof, as stated in such bills, shall be subject to a collection
or deferred payment charge of 10% on the first $3.00 and on the excess over
$3.00.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 2-19-87)
§ 53.04 RESALE PROHIBITED.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the
utility to any premises or other persons other than that for which application
and contract has been made and the meter installed, except in case of
emergency.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-2-78)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 53.05 MUNICIPAL WATER UTILITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1, the City's municipal water utility is
hereby removed from the jurisdiction of the IURC for the approval of rates and
charges and the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes, or other evidences of
indebtedness, and any other applicable matters.
   (B)   Except as described in division (C) hereof, this section shall take
effect sixty (60) days after the date of its adoption.
   (C)   If, within sixty (60) days of the adoption of this section, the
Council receives a petition: (i) that is signed by at least the number of the
registered voters of the City required under I.C. 3-8-6-3 to place a candidate
on the ballot; and (ii) that requests the Council to submit the question of
removal from the IURC jurisdiction to the registered voters of the City at the
next election, the Council will certify the public question to the county
election board in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1.
   (D)   Within thirty (30) days after this section becomes effective, the
Mayor and/or Clerk-Treasurer shall mail to the IURC written notice of the
withdrawal of the City's municipal water utility from the IURC's jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 6-16-20)
**** USE REGULATIONS ****
§ 53.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Designates a person, partnership, association, firm, public or
private corporation or governmental agency applying for or using water service
supplied by utility.
   UTILITY or COMPANY. Designates the Boonville Municipal Water System, which
furnishes water service under these rules and regulations.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-2-78)
§ 53.16 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Each applicant for water service will be required to sign a form
provided by the utility setting forth:
      (1)   The date of application.
      (2)   The location of premises to be served.
      (3)   The date on which the applicant will be ready for service.
      (4)   Whether the premises have ever before been supplied by the utility.
      (5)   The purpose for which the service is to be used.
      (6)   The size of service.
      (7)   The address to which the bills are to be mailed or delivered.
      (8)   Whether the applicant is an owner or tenant of, or an agent for the
owner of the premises. If the applicant is an agent, the utility may require
proof of his authority.
      (9)   An agreement to abide by all rules and regulations of the utility.
   (B)   The rates, rules and regulations, ordinances and conditions applying
to water service, hereinafter named shall constitute and be considered a part
of the contract with every person, firm, organization or corporation who is
supplied with water from the system of the utility, and every person, firm,
organization or corporation, hereinafter called the customer, who accepts and
uses water service shall be held to have consented to be bound hereby.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-2-78)
§ 53.17 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   (1)   A cash deposit equal to two (2) times the estimated average
monthly charge shall be made by the customer as security for the payment of
water service bills, but in no case shall said deposit be less than twenty-five
dollars ($25.00). Deposits prescribed herein less the amount of any unpaid
service bills, will be refunded. Deposits cannot be sold or transferred by one
customer to another except by consent of the utility. Deposits may be refunded
after a satisfactory credit has been established over no less than two (2)
years period and upon proof of home ownership.
      (2)   Deposits will be applied to unpaid balances if service has been
discontinued by the utility because of nonpayment of bills and the full amount
shall be re-established before service will be resumed. Service so discontinued
shall not be restored until all sums then due and owing, shall be paid, plus, a
turn-on charge of five dollars ($5.00).
      (3)   The utility reserves the right to refuse to render service to any
applicant indebted to it for service rendered at any location in the community
served by the utility within three (3) years prior to such application, until
such indebtedness is settled to the satisfaction of the utility.
   (B)   In case the character or volume of a customer's service should change
at any time so that a customer's deposit is inadequate to insure payment of
bills, the utility reserves the right to require the customer to increase his
deposit to an amount satisfactory to utility.
   (C)   Deposit shall be refunded by utility to customer upon termination of
use of all services, provided that customer has paid all bills due to utility,
has given the utility an opportunity to remove its meters and equipment in an
undamaged condition and surrenders the deposit receipt. Utility may require the
identification of the person surrendering deposit receipt. In case the customer
shall have lost the deposit receipt, utility will require that customer sign
its standard release form acknowledging return of the deposit.
   (D)   (1)   The utility may require a present customer to make a reasonable
cash deposit when the customer has been mailed disconnect notices for two (2)
consecutive months or any three (3) months within the preceding twelve (12)
month period, or when the service has been disconnected pursuant to the rules
for non-payment.
      (2)   The amount of such deposit may not exceed an amount equal to 1/6 of
the expected annual billings for the customer at the address at which service
is rendered.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-2-78)
§ 53.18 DISCONNECTION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   The customer shall notify the utility at least three (3) days in
advance of the day disconnection is desired. The customer shall remain
responsible for all service used and the billings therefore until service is
disconnected pursuant to such notice.
      (2)   Upon request by a customer of a utility to disconnect service, the
utility shall disconnect the service within three (3) working days of the
requested disconnection date. The customer shall not be liable for any service
rendered to such address or location after the expiration of these three (3)
days.
   (B)   The utility may disconnect service without request by the customer and
without prior notice only:
      (1)   If a condition dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety or
property exists; or
      (2)   Upon order by any court, or other duly authorized public authority;
or
      (3)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of water is detected and the
utility has reasonable ground to believe the affected customer is responsible
for such use; or
      (4)   If the utility's regulating or measuring equipment has been
tampered with, the utility has reasonable grounds to believe that the affected
customer is responsible for such tampering.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided, herein, service to any residential
customer shall not be disconnected for a violation of any rule or regulation of
the utility or for the non-payment of a bill, except after five (5) days prior
written notice to customer by either:
         (a)   Mailing the notice to such residential customer at the address
shown on the records of the utility;
         (b)   Personal delivery of the notice to the residential customer or a
responsible member of his household at the address shown on the records of the
utility;
         (c)   No disconnect notice for non-payment may be rendered prior to
the date on which the account becomes delinquent.
      (2)   The notice must be in language which is clear, concise and easily
understandable to a layman and shall state in separately numbered large typed
or printed paragraphs:
         (a)   The date of proposed disconnection;
         (b)   The specific actual basis and reason for the proposed
disconnection;
         (c)   The telephone number of the utility office at which the customer
may call during regular business hours in order to question the proposed
disconnection or seek information concerning his or her rights; and
         (d)   A reference to the amount that is past due on their account.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-2-78)
§ 53.19 DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   A utility service bill which has remained unpaid for a period of more
than fifteen (15) days following the mailing of the bill shall be a delinquent
bill.
   (B)   The utility service bill shall be rendered as a net bill. If the net
bill is not paid within fifteen (15) days after the bill is mailed, it shall
become a delinquent bill and a late payment charge may be added in the amount
of ten (10) percent of the first three (3) dollars and three (3) percent of the
excess of three (3) dollars.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-2-78)
§ 53.20 ESTIMATES AND ADJUSTMENTS OF BILLS.
   (A)   The water utility may estimate the bill of any customer only for good
cause. Good cause includes, but is not limited to inaccessibility of a
customer's meter, if the utility has made a reasonable attempt to read it; and
other circumstances beyond the control of the utility, its agents and
employees.
   (B)   Errors in meter readings, billing errors, including incorrect tariff
applications, may be adjusted to the known date of error or for a period of one
year, whichever period is shorter.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-2-78)
§ 53.21 COPIES OF RULES PROVIDED.
   The utility shall supply free of charge a copy of the rules and regulations
and a copy of the rate schedules applicable to the types of service available
to new applicants and existing customers upon request by the applicant or
customer.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-2-78)
§ 53.22 WATER AND SERVICE QUALITY.
   (A)   Water furnished by the utility for human consumption, or for domestic
use shall be of such quality as will have the approval, or comply with the
requirements, of the Indiana State Board of Health.
   (B)   Public water supplies within the distribution pipe systems shall be
adequately protected against pollution from back siphonage or cross connections
with other systems on customer's property by proper installation of protective
devices in accordance with the rules of the Indiana State Board of Health. Such
protective devices shall be installed and maintained at the cost and expense of
the customer, subject however, to the inspection test and approval of the
utility before being placed in service, and at such times thereafter as
recommended by the Indiana State Board of Health.
   (C)   Public water supplies shall also be adequately protected against any
unnecessary and avoidable pollution at their own sources, and at all times
after being taken therefrom, until delivery to the customer, to conform in all
cases to the requirements of the Indiana State Board of Health.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-2-78)
§ 53.23 MODIFICATION AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   If a customer requests for his convenience or by his actions requires
that utility facilities be redesigned, reengineered, relocated, removed,
modified or reinstalled, the utility may require the customer to make payment
to it of the full cost of performing such service.
   (B)   (1)   The utility shall, upon written request for service, make free
of charge an extension necessary to give service when the estimated total
revenue, for a period of three (3) years, from the prospective customer or
customers, is at least equal to the estimated cost of such extension.
      (2)   If the estimated cost of the extension required to furnish service
is greater than the total estimated revenue from such extension specified
herein, such an extension shall be made under the following conditions:
         (a)   Upon proper application for such extension:
            1.   Receipt by the water utility of a cash deposit in an amount
equal to the cost of such extension in excess of the amount which would have
qualified as provided in division (1) above; or
            2.   Receipt by the water utility of adequate provision, mutually
acceptable to the parties, for payment of such cash deposit upon completion of
the construction of the extension, the water utility shall proceed with such
extension.
         (b)   For each customer, exclusive of the initial applicants
considered in the making of an extension, connected to such an extension within
the period of six (6) years from the completion of such extension, the water
utility shall refund to such initial applicants, in proportion to their
respective contributions toward the cost of such extension, an amount equal to
three (3) times the estimated annual revenue from such new customer, less the
cost to service such new customer, but the total of all refunds to any such
applicant shall in no event exceed the aforesaid contribution of such
applicant.
   (C)   (1)   The utility shall estimate the total cost of extension from its
existing main or mains which is to serve the extension to the end of the lot or
frontage of the most remote applicant to be served; provided, however, that if
this be a corner lot abutting an intersecting street in which an existing main
is located, the terminal point of the extension shall be located so that the
main constructed hereunder ties in with the existing main located in such
intersecting street.
      (2)   In estimating the cost of an extension, the estimate shall be based
on the diameter of the pipe to be used, provided, however, the estimated cost
to the customer or customers shall not be based on a pipe diameter in excess of
eight (8) inches, unless actual consumption estimated for the proposed customer
(s) requires a larger pipe.
   (D)   (1)   The water utility shall not be required to make extensions as
provided in division (B) above unless the customers to be initially served by
such extension upon its installation have entered into an agreement with the
water utility setting forth the obligations and commitments of the parties,
which may require the customer to provide a satisfactory guaranty to the water
utility of the performance of the customer's obligations thereunder.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-2-78)
§ 53.24 TURNING WATER ON.
   (A)   No water shall be turned on for service into any premises by any
person but the Superintendent of Utilities or some person authorized by him to
perform this service.
   (B)   No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which the
plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the City of Boonville, Indiana;
provided, that water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished
buildings.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-2-78)
§ 53.25 CONNECTION INSPECTION FEES.
   The connection inspection fee for water service shall be one hundred dollars
($100). All applications for water service shall be on forms provided by the
City. In the event a reinspection is needed to complete the connection, a
reinspection fee of fifty dollars ($50) will be assessed for each subsequent
reinspection.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-4-17)
§ 53.26 PROTECTING PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM FROM BACKFLOW CONTAMINATION.
   (A)   A cross connection shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the City of Boonville water system, and the other, water
from a private source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam,
gases, or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other,
the direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two
systems.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the City of Boonville may enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
City of Boonville and by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management in
accordance with 327 IAC 8-10.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City of Boonville to cause inspections to
be made of all properties served by the public water system where cross
connections with the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and re-inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be established by the City of Boonville.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the City of
Boonville shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine the property served by a connection to the public water system of the
City of Boonville for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or
occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such property.
The refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
   (E)   The City of Boonville is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of this
section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed necessary
to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system. Water
service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on the
owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation is
found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the City of Boonville that a cross connection or an
emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the clerk of the
City of Boonville and delivered to the consumer's premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow preventer in
the main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow
preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to
flooding or freezing.
   (H)   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level.
   (I)   This section does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, the IDEM
Rule 327 IAC 8-10 or any applicable City of Boonville ordinances, but is
supplementary to them.
   (J)   If, in the judgment of the City of Boonville, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water system; the
City of Boonville will give notice to the water consumer to install such an
approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his own expenses,
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner approved by the
City of Boonville and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved
devices as required by the City of Boonville and in accordance with the IDEM
Rule 327 IAC 8-10.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 7-30-20)
CHAPTER 54: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Objectives
   
54.03   State and federal requirements
   
54.04   Definitions
   
54.05   Connection requirements
   
54.06   Administration and enforcement
   
54.07   Abatement
Use Regulations
   
54.20   Prohibited discharges
   
54.21   Private treatment or disposal
   
54.22   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
54.23   Industrial discharges
   
54.24   Pumping stations
   
54.25   Dilutions
   
54.26   Accidental discharges
   54.27   Private sewage disposal systems
Rates and Charges
   
54.40   Definitions
   
54.41   Customers charged
   
54.42   Types of charges
   
54.43   Measurement and determination
   
54.44   Preparation and billing
   
54.45   Studies and review
   
54.46   Special rate contracts
   
54.47   Authority
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Prohibited activity and behavior in parks, see §
93.02
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 54.01 PURPOSE.
   A chapter regulating the connection to and use of public and private sewers
and drains, the installation and connection of building sewers, and the
discharge of waters and wastes into the public sewer system of the City of
Boonville, Indiana, and providing penalties for violations thereof. In
addition, this chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for, the City
of Boonville, and enables the City to comply with all applicable State and
Federal laws.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.02 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater treatment system which will interfere with the operation of the
system or contaminate the resultant sludge and reduce the opportunity for its
disposal through land application or landfilling.
   (B)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater treatment system which will pass through the system, inadequately
treated, into receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible with the system.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.03 STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable State and/or Federal requirements now or projected to be in effect.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of
terms used in this chapter shall be as follows:
      AMMONIA or NH3N. Dissolved ammonia, including NH3(aq) and NH4+, usually
expressed as NH3N.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD5. Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial wastes, the quantity of dissolved oxygen in milligrams per
liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic matter with
nitrification inhibition by aerobic biochemical action under standard
laboratory procedures for five (5) days at twenty (20) degrees Celsius.
      BOARD or UTILITY BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of
Boonville, Indiana, or any duly authorized officials or boards acting in its
behalf.
      BUILDING DRAIN or HOUSE DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of building
drainage system which receives the discharge from waste, and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and convey it to a point approximately
five (5) feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
      BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm waters or
other clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
      BUILDING LATERAL SEWER or HOUSE LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the
building drain to the sewerage system or other place of disposal.
      BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or
other clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. Pretreatment standards for industrial wastewater
dischargers promulgated for significant industrial users under 40 CFR Part 433.
      CITY. The City of Boonville, Indiana, or any duly authorized officials
acting on its behalf, including the Board of Public Works and Safety and
Utility Director.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH,
phosphorus, ammonia nitrogen, and fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional
pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the treatment works were designed
to treat such pollutants and in fact does remove such pollutants to a
substantial degree. The term "substantial degree" is not subject to precise
definition, but generally contemplates removals in the order of 85% or greater.
Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not considered
substantial. Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered
compatible include:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Total organic carbon;
         (c)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
      DISCHARGE. To emit a substance into the sanitary sewer.
      DISCHARGER or CONTRIBUTOR. Any person discharging into the public sewer
system.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      EXCESS STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater from industrial dischargers with
stronger-than-domestic characteristics that the POTW is capable of treating.
      FECAL COLIFORM or E. COLI. Any of a number of organisms common to the
intestinal tract of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an
indicator of pollution.
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the Board.
      GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage or sale of produce.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids, and further defined in
Title 40 C.F.R. Part 403.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of
energy discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial,
manufacturing, commercial or business process, or from the development,
recovery or processing of any natural resource carried on by a person and shall
further  mean any waste from an industrial sewer.
      INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building
drains and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
      INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total, quantity of water from both infiltration
and inflow without distinguishing the source.
      INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building
drains and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leader,
cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water
discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross
connections from storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters,
surface run-off, street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and
is distinguishable from infiltration.)
      INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the City through
Board of Public Works to inspect and approve installation of building sewers
and their connection to public sewer system.
      INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, along or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, both:
         (a)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
         (b)   Therefore, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or any more stringent State and local regulations): Section 405 of
the Clean Water Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including Title II,
more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA);
and any State regulations contained in any State sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic
Substances Control Act; and the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries
Act.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A contributor that:
         (a)   Has a flow equal to or greater than twenty-five thousand
(25,000) gallons per twenty-four (24)-hour period;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the dry-weather flow carried by
the Boonville sewage collection system receiving the waste;
         (c)   Has in its wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to
Section 307 of the Act, being 33 USC 1317 of State regulations;
         (d)   Has in its wastes the characteristics of Excess Strength
Wastewater; or
         (e)   Is found by the City, Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM) or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have
significant impact, either singly or in connection with other contributing
industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the
system's effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the system.
      MAY. The act is permissive.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      NPDES PERMIT or NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT.
Permit setting forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or
combination of pollutants  to the navigable waters of the United States
pursuant to Section 402 of P.L. 95-217, being 33 USC 1342.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows , into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
      NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in the rate
subchapter.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, are a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the City of Boonville NPDES permit, including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation.
      pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration.
The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of
solution.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individuals, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership, co-
partnership, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the State of Indiana, the United
States of America, or other legal entity, or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the plural where
indicated by the context.
      PHOSPHORUS or P. The chemical element phosphorus, total.
      POTW. Publicly owned treatment works. In this case, the City of Boonville
municipal wastewater treatment facility.
      PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or
alteration  can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes,
process changes or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. Section
403.6(d); and shall include all applicable rule and regulations contained in
the code of Federal Regulations as published in the Federal Register, under
Section 307 of P.L. 95-217, under regulation 40 C.F.R. Part 403 pursuant to the
Act and amendments.
      PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by public authority.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public
authority and will consist of the following increments:
         (a)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
         (b)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
         (c)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under
pressure.
         (d)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system
at which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works which is owned
by a state or municipality. This definition includes any devices and systems
used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage
or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes and
other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to a POTW treatment plant. The
term also means the municipality which has jurisdiction over the indirect
discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment works.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and
to which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including
polluted cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are:
         (a)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary pumping facilities.
         (b)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
         (c)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect,
transport and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
      SHALL. The act is mandatory.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. The status of an industrial user that has
caused or allowed a violation that meets one (1) or more of the following
criteria:
         (a)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITS, defined as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements taken
during a six (6) month period exceed, by any magnitude, the daily maximum limit
or the average limit for the same pollutant parameter.
         (b)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements for each
pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period equal or exceed the
product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the
applicable TRC (TRC equals one and four-tenths (1.4) for biochemical oxygen
demand, total suspended solids, fats, oil and grease, and one and two-tenths
(1.2) for all other pollutants except pH).
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily
maximum or longer-term average) that the City determines has caused, alone or
in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public.
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health, welfare, or to the environment, or has resulted
in the POTW's exercise of its emergency authority under 327 IAC 5-19-3(1)(G) to
halt or prevent such a discharge.
         (e)   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the schedule
date, a compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance.
         (f)   Failure to provide, within thirty (30) days after the due date,
required reports such as:
            1.   Baseline monitoring reports;
            2.   Compliance reports;
            3.   Periodic self-monitoring reports; and
            4.   Reports on compliance with compliance schedules.
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the City
determines may adversely affect the operation or implementation of the POTW.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than five (5) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty-four
(24) hour concentration of flow during normal operation and which adversely
affects the sewage works.
      STANDARD METHODS. The sampling, preservation, recordkeeping, testing, and
other laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition, at the time of
analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
prepared and published jointly by the American Public Works Association, the
American Water Works Association and The Water Environment Federation.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted
water from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The Utility Director of the City of Boonville, Indiana,
or his authorized agent or representative.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter.
      TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
      TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will.cause
adverse effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological
manifestations. as defined in standards issued pursuant to State and Federal
regulations.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and POTW.
      VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated to 500 degrees C. for 15 to 20 minutes.
      WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of
stormwater or other natural waters either continuously or intermittently.
   (B)   Any terms not defined herein, but defined in the sewer rate subchapter
shall have the same meaning herein.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.05 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Utility Office.
   (B)   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: One for
residential service, and another for commercial and industrial service. In
either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the said City. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the inspector. Sewer permit fees shall be paid to the Board at the time
application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used if they are in compliance with the
latest City standard details. If not in compliance, the sewer lateral shall be
updated to ensure compliance.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe joint
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
City and State. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. shall apply. The size of all building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the Utility Director or his designated representative, but in no
event shall be less than six (6) inches in diameter. The slope of such pipe
shall not be less than 4% slope and not greater than 18% slope.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by means approved by the
Board and discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement drains,
sump pumps, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface run-off ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code and other
applicable rules and regulations of the City and State, and be consistent with
the appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. Actual sewer tap shall be made
on City property or on City easement or right-of-way. All such connections
shall be made gas tight and water tight. All new sewer installation must
include an accessible clean-out and check valve per the City's service lateral
detail located within five (5) feet of the building. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Utility Director
before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the said
inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the said
inspector or his representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
   (L)   Sewage service shall not be provided to any customer outside the
corporate limits of the City unless under special contract, subject to approval
by the Board, after consideration of all factors addressed by this chapter.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 54.06 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized
employees of the City bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties, at any time without prior notice, for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent or his
representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes including
metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
      (2)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in division (A)(1) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of
the City shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established
by the company.
      (3)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (B)   (1)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or
negligently break, damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any
person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest.
      (2)   The City may immediately and without prior notice suspend the
wastewater treatment service of a discharger if it appears to the City, based
upon factors addressed in this chapter, that an actual or threatened discharge
presents an imminent danger to the welfare of persons, to the environment, to
the operation of the City's wastewater treatment plant, or contaminates the
resultant sludge and jeopardizes the opportunity for its disposal through land
application, or violates any discharge limits. Any discharger notified of the
suspension of wastewater treatment service must immediately cease all
discharges. If the discharger fails to comply voluntarily with a suspension
order, the City may immediately commence judicial proceeding to compel the
discharger's compliance with the order. The City can reinstate the wastewater
treatment service and terminate judicial proceeding provided the discharger can
prove the elimination of the non-complying discharge or conditions as outlined
above.
      (3)   Whenever the City finds that any discharger has engaged in conduct
other than that set forth in division (A)(2) above or that results in
significant noncompliance, which to the Board justifies revocation of a permit
or suspension of service, the City will serve the discharger with a written
notice, either personally or by certified or registered mail, stating the
nature of the alleged violation. Within ten (10) days of the date of receipt of
this notice, the discharger must respond personally or in writing to the City,
advising of its position with respect to the allegations. Thereafter, the
parties must meet to determine the seriousness of the allegations and where
necessary, establish a plan for the satisfactory correction of the violation.
      (4)   Where a violation of the City's ordinance or applicable
pretreatment regulations occurs or results in significant noncompliance and is
not corrected by timely compliance, the City may order any discharger to show
cause before them and state why the proposed permit revocation action should
not be taken. A written notice must be served on the discharger by personal
service, certified or registered, specifying the time and place of a hearing to
be held by the City. The hearing will consider the violation, the proposed
enforcement action, reasons why the enforcement action is to be taken, and
directing the discharger to show cause before the City as to why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing must be
served no less than ten (10) days before the hearing. Service may be made on
any agent, officer or authorized representative of a discharger. The
proceedings at the hearing will be considered by the City and appropriate
orders with respect to the alleged improper activities of the discharger will
be issued.
      (5)   Any user affected by any decision, action or determination made by
the City, interpreting or implementing the provisions of this chapter or in any
permit issued herein, may file with the City a written request for
reconsideration within ten (10) days of such decision, action or determination,
setting forth in detail the facts supporting the user's request for
reconsideration.
      (6)   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
into a City's wastewater disposal system contrary to this chapter, federal or
state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the City, the City attorney
may commence a judicial action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2014-7, passed 8-5-14; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-
27-22)
§ 54.07 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   When a discharge of wastes causes an obstruction, damage or any other
impairment to the City's facilities, the City may assess a charge against the
user for the work required to clean or repair the facility and add such charge
to the user's charges and fees.
   (B)   The City may revoke any permit or terminate or cause to be terminated
wastewater service to any premise, if a violation of any provision of this
chapter is found to exist, or if a discharge or wastewater causes or threatens
to cause a condition of contamination, pollution or nuisance to the POTW, as
defined in this chapter. This provision is in addition to other statutes, rules
or regulations, authorizing termination of service for delinquency in payment.
   (C)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification in any application, report or other document required by this
chapter or other applicable regulations, or who tampers with or knowingly
renders inaccurate any monitoring device, will, upon conviction, be punished by
the imposition of a civil penalty as required by the local and/or state
statutes.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
**** USE REGULATIONS ****
§ 54.20 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit
to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within
the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of said City, any human
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
      (2)   A user may not introduce into a POTW any pollutant(s) which cause
pass through or interference. These general prohibitions and the specific
prohibitions of this section apply to each user introducing pollutants into a
POTW whether or not the user is subject to other national pretreatment
standards or any national, state, or local pretreatment requirements.
      (3)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water
roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or
unpolluted industrial water.
      (4)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the Board.
      (5)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems
or swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available,
or to a combined sewer approved by the Board. Where water containing chlorine
is discharged to a storm sewer chlorine shall be removed to an acceptable level
in accordance with state regulations. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the Utility Board and by the
regulating agencies of the State of Indiana. Where a storm sewer, combined
sewer or drainage ditch is not available, such unpolluted water may be
discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval by the Board.
      (6)   No new connection to sanitary sewers shall be made unless there is
capacity available to all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the
sewage treatment plant, including capacity for pollutant loadings.
      (7)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
Board, any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
      (8)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
      (9)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
      (10)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer toilet facilities therein, shall connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after the date of official
notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within three hundred (300)
feet of the property line.
      (11)   No person, firm or corporation shall construct new combined sewers
for attachment to the Boonville Sewer System.
      (12)   All newly constructed sanitary sewers which are tributary to a
combined sewer shall be designed to minimize or delay inflow contribution to
the existing combined sewer.
      (13)   For all new structures or any structure requiring a new inflow/
clear water connection, such connection shall be made separate and distinct
from sanitary waste connections to facilitate disconnection from the combined
sewer if a separate storm sewer becomes available.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than six (6), or higher
than nine (9), or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage
or hazard to structure, equipment and personnel of the sewage works, or that
interferes with any treatment process.
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, eggshells, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
         (e)   Any pollutant, including biochemical oxygen-demanding pollutants
(BOD), etc., released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant
concentration which will cause interference with the POTW.
         (f)   Heat in an amount that will inhibit biological activity in the
POTW resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 40 degrees C (104 degrees F)
unless the approval authority, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate
temperature limits.
         (g)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids in
quantities sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or to
prevent entry into the sewers for their maintenance and repair.
         (h)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids in
quantities sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or to
prevent entry into the sewers for their maintenance and repair. Substances
which, by reason of their nature and quantity, will cause the wastewater
treatment plant to violate its NPDES permit, or interfere with any component of
the POTW, including sludge use and disposal.
         (i)   Substances with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
         (j)   Wastewater containing any toxic radioactive wastes or isotopes
of such half-life or concentration as to exceed limits established in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
         (k)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
         (l)   1.   Any wastewater containing any cations, anions, compounds or
substances exceeding the concentrations listed below as measured at the point
of discharge into the City's sewage collection system or at the sampling
manhole(s) approved by the Board. The City shall have the ability to control
and set limits for other pollutants not specifically listed herein, when, in
their opinion, those pollutants have the potential to affect any aspect of
water quality. The following pollutant limits are established to protect
against pass through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following daily maximum limit:
Pollutants     Maximum Concentration (mg/l)
(Total Metals)
Pollutants           Maximum Concentration (mg/l)
(Total Metals)
Arsenic              0.5
Barium               1.0
Cadmium              0.1
Hexalent Chromium    0.4
Total thromium       1.0
Copper               0.1
Total Cyanide        0.24
Iron                 25.0
Lead                 0.2
Mercury              0.004
Nickel               0.5
Silver               0.05
Zinc                 1.0
Tin                  1.0
Total Toxic Organics 1.0
 
Pollutants (Others) Concentration (mg/l)
Pollutants (Others)     Concentration (mg/l)
pH                      6.0 to 9.0
Oil and Grease          100.0
Fluoranthene            0.076
Phenanthrene            0.34
Total Phenols           1.0
Pollutants (Surcharges) Surcharge Concentration Level (mg/l)
BOD                     300.0
TSS                     300.0
Ammonia                 15.0
Phosphorous             3.6
 
            2.   Additional charges for treating stronger than normal waste
shall be made. Normal domestic sewage waste strength should not exceed a BOD of
300 milligrams per liter of fluid, TSS in excess of 300 milligrams per liter of
fluid, Ammonia in excess of 15.0 milligrams per liter of fluid, and Phosphorous
in excess of 3.6 milligrams per liter of fluid. Surcharges for stronger than
normal waste will be issued in accordance with §
54.42.
         (m)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals or create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater
works. Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants, identified pursuant to
Section 307 (a) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, which
exceed the limitations set forth in the applicable Federal Categorical
Pretreatment Standards or other pretreatment standards or regulations issued by
EPA or the IDEM.
         (n)   Where more than one standard (local, state or federal) applies
to discharge limitations for a particular pollutant, the standard which shall
apply is the most stringent of appropriate limitations.
      (2)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the Board that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can
otherwise endanger life, health, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming its opinion as to the acceptability of any wastes, the Board will give
consideration to all factors addressed under this chapter including, but not
limited to, the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent
factors. The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit or sixty-five (65) degrees Celsius.
         (b)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty-two (32)
and one hundred fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit or zero and sixty-five (0 and
65) degrees Celsius.
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths (¾) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to
the review and approval of the Board.
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing taste or odor producing
substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by
the Board as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the
requirements of the, State, Federal or other public agencies of jurisdiction
for such discharge to the receiving waters.
         (e)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Board in compliance with
applicable State or Federal regulations.
         (f)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Concentrations of inert suspended solids exceeding 250 mg/l
(such as, but not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues)
or concentrations of dissolved solids exceeding 600 mg/l (such as, but not
limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
            3.   Excessive BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
            4.   Excessive volume of flow or concentration of wastes
constituting "slugs," as defined herein.
         (g)   Any water or waste that causes corrosive structural damage to
the treatment works or collection system or any sewer or appurtenances owned or
operated by the City.
         (h)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or, are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
         (i)   Any substance which will cause the wastewater treatment plant to
violate its NPDES permit.
         (j)   It shall, be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, permit
or cause to be deposited, or discharged in any manner whatsoever, any substance
into a sewer at a point different than the permitted sewer connection to the
sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   The Board may impose mass-based discharge limitations in terms of
pounds of specific pollutants discharged per day for new major contributors or
major contributors with any increase in discharges. These mass limitations may
result in lower concentration-based specific discharge limits than those
established in this section.
      (4)   A non-domestic discharger of any listed or characteristic hazardous
wastes under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) must immediately
notify the utility of the amount and frequency of the hazardous waste
discharge.
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to approve,
as a means of calculating the gallonage of flow upon which a monthly sewer
charge is calculated, devices attached to a commercial customer sewer lateral
which measures effluent discharge.
      (2)   No such device may be approved by the Board unless:
         (a)   The Board is satisfied that the device reasonably measures the
quantity of effluent being discharged to the City sewers;
         (b)   The customer requesting such a device pays the cost of
installation, calibration, maintenance and repair of such device; and
         (c)   An appropriate and cost effective method exists by which the
effluent quantity measured by such device may be provided to the City.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2014-7, passed 8-5-14; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-
27-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.21 PRIVATE TREATMENT OR DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
54.20(A), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first notify the Board through the Superintendent.
   (C)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health and
applicable county regulations.
   (D)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (C) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (E)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the City.
   (F)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within ninety (90) days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or
dirt.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Health
Office.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.22 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the City, Warrick County Health Department or any other local, state
or federal agency, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease or oils in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients, except that interceptors will not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity and, shall be consistent with the requirements for grease
traps in 410 IAC 6-10.1 (Commercial On-Site Sewage Systems), and shall be
located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
They shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding
abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures, and shall be of substantial
construction, gas-tight, watertight and equipped with easily removable covers.
Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by
the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   (B)   Facilities required by the City to maintain such interceptors shall
create and maintain a schedule of cleaning and maintenance for the
interceptors. Receipts of such cleaning activities shall be kept on file at the
location of the interceptor, and shall be made available to an authorized agent
of the POTW upon demand.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall interceptor wastes be decanted into the
sewer system or POTW via grease trap cleaning operations, use of chemicals or
biological agents, or by other methods.
   (D)   Upon inspection by an authorized agent of the POTW, should there be
deficient conditions with regard to the state of the interceptor or the
management practices used in its operation or maintenance, the POTW may
require:
      (1)   Additional cleaning or inspections;
      (2)   An increase in the frequency of cleanings on the user's schedule of
cleaning;
      (3)   Initiation of formal action as outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.23 INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the City's sewers or POTW which contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in § 54.20(B), and which in the judgment of the
Board, based upon all factors addressed in this chapter, may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters,
otherwise create a hazard to life, health or constitute a public nuisance, or
have the potential to have excess strength wastewater characteristics, the
Board may:
         (a)   Require all new industrial waste or major contributors and
industrial waste or major contributors with any increase in wastewater
discharge volumes or concentrations to submit information on wastewater
characteristics and obtain prior approval for discharge. No significant
industrial user shall discharge into the POTW without first obtaining a
wastewater discharge permit from IDEM. Any violation of the terms and
conditions of a wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation and
subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to sanctions. Obtaining a
wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to
comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or requirements with
any other requirements of federal, state or local law.
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for.any reason deemed
appropriate by the Board.
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to comply with the limits as
defined by this chapter.
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of wastes so as to avoid
any "slug" loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works.
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (2)   If the Board permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Board and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (B)   In addition to meeting the discharge limits enumerated in §
54.20(B), pretreatment of industrial wastes from contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is subject to the EPA. Rules and
regulations as contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 403.
   (C)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the Board
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted and an IDEM construction permit is obtained where
applicable. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the City to determine
that such facilities are being operated in conformance with the applicable
Federal, State and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain operating
records of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against City monitoring records.
   (D)   The City may require users of the treatment works to supply pertinent
information on wastewater characteristics. This information may be requested on
a monthly or quarterly basis. Such measurements, tests and analyses shall be
made at the users' expense.
   (E)   Whenever deemed necessary, as determined at the discretion of the City
and/or the Superintendent, the Superintendent may require users to restrict
their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewaters be
discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industria) waste streams, and
such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   When required by the Utility Director and subject to approval by the
Board, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying non-
residential wastes shall install a suitable control manhole(s) together with
such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of all wastes from the
property. Such manhole(s), when required; shall carry be accessibly and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manholes shall be installed by the owner at his expense,
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Agents of the City, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
      (1)   If a control manhole does not exist on site or is not feasible to
install, an internal drainage point can be used upon permission of the
Superintendent provided the wastewater in the manhole is representative of the
wastewater generated on the property.
      (2)   If neither a private control manhole nor an internal discharge
point is practical as the monitoring location, or causes an undue hardship on
the user, the Superintendent may allow the monitoring facility to be
constructed in the public street or sidewalk area, and to be located so that it
will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles. Ample room,must be
provided to allow accurate sampling and the compositing of samples for
analysis. The manhole, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at
all times in a safe an,d proper operating condition at the owner's expense.
      (3)   Wastewater shall not be diverted because of changes in plumbing or
internal processing from the designated sampling location without prior notice
and approval of the Superintendent.
   (G)   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic
establishment of charges provided for in the sewer rate subchapter, from
samplings taken at the aforementioned structure at any period of time and of
such duration and in such manner as the City may elect, or, at any place
mutually agreed upon between the user and the City, provided the wastes sampled
are representative of the discharges from the user. Appropriate charges for
sampling and analysis may be assessed to the user at the option of the City.
The results of routine sampling and analysis by the user may also be used for
determination of charges after verification by the City.
   (H)   Periodically, at least once each calendar quarter, the City may
monitor the discharge from any non-domestic source and bill the discharger the
cost of monitoring and analyzing for any or all controlled pollutants. The City
shall reserve the right to conduct additional inspection, testing and
monitoring as is deemed appropriate to ensure that dischargers are in
compliance with provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Industrial discharges subject to pretreatment standards shall submit
the information set forth below to the City:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by the user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from the regulated
process streams and other streams, as necessary.
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants. The categorical pretreatment standards
applicable to each regulated process. The results of sampling and analysis
identifying the nature and concentration, and/or mass, here required by the
standard of regulated pollutants in the discharge of each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with industry accepted
standards.
      (6)   Periodic compliance reports.
         (a)   The City may require users of the POTW, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows and characteristics.
Such measurements, tests, and analysis shall be made at the user's expense. If
made by the City, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the City.
         (b)   All wastewater samples must be representatiye of the user's
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are not
representative of its discharge.
      (7)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the City of
any planned significant changes to the user's operations or system which might
alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before
the change. The City may require the user to submit such information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including submittal of a
wastewater discharge permit.
      (8)   Reports of potential problems.
         (a)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the City of the
incident This notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of
waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the
user.
         (b)   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the user shall,
unless waived by the City, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
         (c)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin
board or other prominent place advising employees who they are to call in the
event of a discharge described above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      (9)   Sample collection. The user must collect wastewater samples using
flow proportional composite collection techniques. In the event flow
proportional sampling is not feasible, the City may authorize the use of time
proportional sampling or a minimum of four (4) grab samples where the user
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance
with instantaneous discharge limits. Samples for oil and grease, temperature,
pH, DO, cyanide, phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be
obtained using grab collection techniques.
   (J)   (1)   The Board may assess charges and fees from any non-domestic
discharger which may include:
         (a)   Fees for any monitoring, inspections, surveillance and
analyzing.
         (b)   Fees for reviewing plans, specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to pretreatment control facilities and accidental
discharge procedures.
         (c)   Other fees as the Board may deem necessary to determine
compliance with chapter requirements.
      (2)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the Board. A schedule of
applicable charges and fees are available from the utility.
   (K)   (1)   All sampling, preservation, chain-of-custody and other
recordkeeping, measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided,
or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole, except for application
for NPDES permits and report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance
with rules and regulations adopted by the USEPA, 40 C.F.R. Part 136 and any
subsequent revisions subject to approval by the City.
      (2)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, health and property.
      (3)   The industrial processes being used and the particular constituent
analyses involved will determine whether a twenty-four (24) hour composite of
all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. The frequency and type of samples obtained for compliance
testing and excess strength surcharges will be as determined by the
Superintendent. Normally, but not always, BOD, suspended solids, and phosphorus
samples are obtained from twenty-four (24) hour composites of all outfalls
whereas pH, NH3N and fats, oils and grease samples are determined from periodic
grab samples.
   (L)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   (M)   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
54.20(A).
   (N)   All discharges subject to local state or federal regulations must
retain and preserve for at least three (3) years, any records, books,
documents, memoranda, reports, correspondence and any and all summaries
relating to monitoring, sampling and chemical analyses made by or in behalf of
a discharger in connection with its discharge. All records which pertain to
matters which are the subject of any enforcement or litigation activities
brought by the City must be retained and preserved by the discharger until all
enforcement activities have concluded and all periods oflimitation concerning
any appeals have expired.
(Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.24 PUMPING STATIONS.
   Any pumping station that is proposed to be utilized as part of a public
sewer shall not be built or installed unless the pumping station is approved by
the Utility Director. In granting approval the Director or his designee shall
be guided by all prevailing laws and requirements as well as current standards
of practice.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 54.25 DILUTIONS.
   No discharger shall be allowed to increase the use of potable or process
water in any way, nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a
discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with applicable standards.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.26 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each discharger shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited or regulated materials or substances. Where necessary, procedures
and facilities to prevent the accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the discharger's expense. Detailed plans
showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the City for review, and be approved by the City before
construction of the facility. Review and approval of plans and operating
procedures by the City shall not relieve the discharger from the responsibility
to modify its facility as necessary to meet applicable requirements.
   (B)   Dischargers shall orally notify the City immediately when a slugload,
accidental discharge, any unusual flows or wastes, or any wastewater discharged
in violation of this chapter, accidentally or otherwise to the sewer system, to
enable the City to take countermeasures to minimize damage to the community
sewer, treatment facility, treatment process, and receiving waters. Dischargers
shall notify the City at (812) 897-1230 during normal business hours, Monday
through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and at (812) 897-2118 during all
other times. The notification shall include location of the discharge, date and
time of occurrence, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective
actions which were taken.
   (C)   This notification shall be followed, within ten (10) days of the date
of the occurrence, by a detailed written statement describing the accidental
discharge, the causes, duration including times and dates of noncompliance, and
the measures being taken to prevent future occurrences.
   (D)   Such notification will not relieve the users of a liability for any
expense, loss or damage to the sewer system, treatment plant or treatment
process, or for any fines imposed by the city by any regulations.
   (E)   (1)   In order that employees of users be informed of City
requirements, users shall make available to their employees copies of this
chapter and together with such other wastewater information and notices which
may be furnished by the City from time to time, directed toward more effective
water pollution control.
      (2)   A notice shall be furnished and permanently posted on a user's
bulletin board or other conspicuous place advising whom to call in case of
accidental discharge in violation of the chapter.
(Ord. 1993-11, passed 5-14-93; Am. Ord. 1996-10, passed 8-26-96; Am. Ord. 1997-
1, passed 1-30-97; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.27 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Connection inspection fees. The permit and inspection fee for a
private sewage disposal system shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00). All
applications for a permit for such private system shall be on forms provided by
the City.
   (B)   Classes of capacity fees. There are three (3) classes of capacity
fees:
      (1)   Residential;
      (2)   Commercial; and
      (3)   Industrial.
   (C)   Capacity fees.
      (1)   Direct sewer connection capacity fee. There is hereby established a
charge in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for the privilege of
making a sewer connection from any single- family residence to an existing
sanitary sewer suitable for use as a lateral sewer by said single- family
residence. The charge for said sewer connection shall be paid in full to the
Boonville Sewer Department at the time that the application for connection to
the municipal sewer is approved. Said connection and fee is based upon water
usage of 310 G.P.D. (gallons per day), as required by IDEM.
         (a)   Residential connection fee computation. The residential
connection fee is two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
         (b)   Commercial non-industrial capacity fee. The capacity fee for a
commercial, nonindustrial connection shall be calculated as follows; based upon
310 G.P.D. as required by IDEM.
            1.   Changes in use of existing structures that do not require new
construction will not materially change the utilization of plant capacity;
therefore, a transfer fee of $50.00 for commercial businesses to cover changing
billing records will be assessed.
            2.   Any new structure, addition to an existing structure, or
demolition and reconstruction of a structure would require the payment of a
capacity fee. The list of charges are as follows:
               a.   Multi-family units: $2,000 per unit (for each dwelling
unit).
               b.   Commercial: $1.90 per square foot (includes but not limited
to retail, office, hospitals, schools, nursing homes, restaurants, garages, gas
stations, laundry, grocery, barber and beauty shops, car washes, day-care
centers, club houses, financial institutions, theaters, motels, hotels).
               c.   Churches and sanctuary regardless of size: $2,000. For all
other space such as classrooms, kitchen, gym/recreational, storage area the
capacity charge will be $1.90 per square foot.
               d.   Manufacturing: $1.30 per square foot.
               e.   Warehouse: $0.65 per square foot.
               f.   Mobile home parks: $1,500 per lot. Individual mobile homes
on residential lots will be treated as single family residences as $2,000.
      (2)   Indirect sewer connection capacity fee. Where sewers may
hereinafter be constructed by and at the sole cost of a subdivision proprietor
or contractor who desires to connect said sewer to the Boonville Municipal
Sewer System, a connection charge in the amount of one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) per single family residential connection shall be charged
for making such connection in such platted subdivision. This indirect sewer
tap-in fee shall be in effect for a five (5) year period only, from and after
the date the Board of Works accepts the sewer, or portion thereof, from the
proprietor or contractor. Thereafter, such connection-shall be deemed a direct
tap-in.
      (3)   Industrial connections. Industrial connection fees shall be by
special permit and shall be based upon strength of sewage as determined by the
Board of Works. Information will be provided upon request.
(Ord. 1999-7, passed 7-20-99; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
Cross-reference:
   Types of charges, see §
54.42
**** RATES AND CHARGES ****
§ 54.40 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this subchapter shall be as follows.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Boonville,
Indiana, or any duly authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The same meaning as defined in the use
regulations subchapter.
   CITY. The City of Boonville, Indiana, acting by and through the Common
Council.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESS STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater from industrial dischargers with
stronger- than- domestic characteristics that the POTW is capable of treating.
   EXCESS STRENGTH WASTEWATER SURCHARGES. Charges to industrial dischargers for
increased operating or maintenance costs resulting from EXCESS STRENGTH
WASTEWATER.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. The act is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD, not more than 300 mg/l;
         (b)   T.S.S., not more than 300 mg/l;
         (c)   NH3N, not more than 15 mg/l; and
         (d)   Phosphorus, not more than 3.6 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES PERMIT or NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT. The
same meaning as defined in § 54.04.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, necessary
to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment, including
treatment of sludges resulting from treatment, on a continuing basis and
produce discharges to receiving waters and sludges that conform with all
related Federal, State and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   S.S. or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The same meaning as defined in § 54.04.
   SHALL. The act is mandatory.
   SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in § 54.04.
   SEWER USE CHAPTER. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Section 204(b)
of P.L. 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental in the user
charge system).
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, etc.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which based on a determination by the City
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious and/or educational functions which, based on a
determination by the City discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (4)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any Federal, State or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (5)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a wastewater treatment works.
(Ord. 1987-17, passed 10-15-87; Am. Ord. 1998-19, passed 10-20-98; Am. Ord.
2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.41 CUSTOMERS CHARGED.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user
and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load.
   (B)   User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User charges shall
be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
      (1)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected
useful life of the sewage works equipment.
      (2)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the
purposes of this subchapter shall be as follows:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Commercial;
         (c)   Governmental;
         (d)   Institutional; and
         (e)   Industrial.
(Ord. 1987-17, passed 10-15-87; Am. Ord. 1998-19, passed 10-20-98; Am. Ord.
2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.42 TYPES OF CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of and the services rendered by sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that as connected with the City sewage system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sewage system of the City of
Boonville. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows:
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, subject to a minimum
charge, except as herein otherwise provided. For the purpose of billing and
collecting the charges for sewage service, the water meters shall be read
monthly and the users shall be billed monthly (or period equaling a month). The
water usage schedule on which the amount of said rate and charges shall be
determined is as follows:
         (a)   All users, treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage per month:
            1.   User charge per 1,000 gallons: $12.18;
            2.   Debt service and other charges per 1,000 gallons: $4.94; and
            3.   Total monthly sewer charge per 1,000 gallons: $17.12.
         (b)   The minimum monthly charge for any metered user shall be as
follows. The minimum monthly charge shall include use of up to 2,500 gallons of
metered water.
            1.   User charge: $30.45;
            2.   Debt service and other charges: $12.35; and
            3.   Monthly minimum sewer charge: $42.80.
      (2)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined as an average of single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered one each month (or period
equaling a month).
         (a)   The schedule on which said rates and charges shall be determined
is as follows:
            1.   User charge: $64.55;
            2.   Debt service: $23.18; and
            3.   Total: $90.73.
         (b)   Unmetered non-residential single family dwelling units shall be
charged a rate to be determined by the City on an individual basis by applying
the above metered rates to estimated usage.
      (3)   Additional charges for treating excess strength wastewater shall be
made on the following basis:
         (a)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of 23 cents per pound of suspended solids for suspended
solids discharged in excess of 300 milligrams per liter of fluid.
         (b)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional
charge of 23 cents per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD discharged in
excess of 300 milligrams per liter of fluid.
         (c)   Rate surcharge based upon NH3-N. There shall be an additional
charge of $1.53 per pound of nitrogen for NH3-N discharged in excess of 15
milligrams per liter of fluid.
         (d)   Rate surcharge based upon Phosphorus. There shall be an
additional charge of $4.00 per pound of phosphorus for phosphorus discharged in
excess of 3.6 milligrams per liter of fluid.
(Ord. 1987-17, passed 10-15-87; Am. Ord. 1998-19, passed 10-20-98; Am. Ord.
2000-7, passed 6-8-00; Am. Ord. 2001-14, passed 10-11-01; Am. Ord. 2010-11,
passed 12-2-10; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
Cross-reference:
   Private sewage disposal systems, see §
54.26
§ 54.43 MEASUREMENT AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sewage system and obtained
from sources other than the utility that serves the City, shall be determined
by the City in such manner as the City shall reasonably elect, and the sewage
service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except, as is
hereinafter provided in this section, the City may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the City that such
quantities do not enter the sewage system.
      (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the City's
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water supplied
by the water utility serving the City and the water used thereon or therein is
not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not acceptable
to the City then the amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or
determined by the City. In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in
this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall at his expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the City for the
determining of sewage discharge.
      (2)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or their liquids into the City's
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water supplied by
the water utility serving the City, and in addition, is a user of water from,
another resource which is not measured by a water meter or is measured by a
meter not acceptable to the City, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the City. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the City for the
determination of sewage discharge.
      (3)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate,
or buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the
City's sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and the
quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such case,
for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for each
user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to each of
the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings served
through the single water meter.
      (4)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the City's
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess of
10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the City
that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not and
cannot enter the. sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall, at his expense, install and maintain meters, wires, volumetric
measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable
to the City for the determination of sewage discharge.
      (5)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other uses, the City may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the user
charge as may be equitable.
      (6)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the City shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the excess strength
wastewater and shall require the user to determine the strength and content of
all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the sewage
system, in such manner and by such method as the City may deem practicable in
the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order
to determine the proper charge.
(Ord. 1987-17, passed 10-15-87; Am. Ord. 1998-19, passed 10-20-98; Am. Ord.
2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.44 PREPARATION AND BILLING.
   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the City
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly. At the end of each year, each user shall be given a notice of the
rates charged for operation, maintenance and replacement for that user for the
next year.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the City for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (C)   As in provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the
amount of the rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at
which such rates or charges shall be paid is now fixed at fifteen (15) days
after the date of mailing of the bill.
(Ord. 1987-17, passed 10-15-87; Am. Ord. 1998-19, passed 10-20-98; Am. Ord.
2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.45 STUDIES AND REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may
remain fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing
services to the various user classes, the City shall periodically cause a study
to be made.
      (2)   Such study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength wastewater from
industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation
and maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements and capital
improvements to the waste treatment systems.
   (B)   (1)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of
time following the normal accounting period, the City shall cause a study to be
made for the purpose of reviewing:
         (a)   The sufficiency of the revenues to properly operate the
wastewater treatment facility and all appurtenances attached thereto; and
         (b)   Maintaining proportionality among the user classes of the rates
and charges for sewage services.
      (2)   Based upon the results of these studies, the City will revise its
rates and charges to be in conformance with the recommendation of such studies.
   (C)   Said studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the City,
or by a firm of certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers
which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of
officers, employees, certified public accountants or engineers as the City
shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 1987-17, passed 10-15-87; Am. Ord. 1998-19, passed 10-20-98; Am. Ord.
2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.46 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Board is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate contracts
with users of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to the sewage works
can be determined, and such special rates shall be based on such costs.
(Ord. 1987-17, passed 10-15-87; Am. Ord. 1998-19, passed 10-20-98; Am. Ord.
2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
§ 54.47 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
City's sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage treatment
works, for the construction and use of house sewers and connection to the
sewerage system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of
such rates and charges. No free service shall be provided to any user of the
wastewater treatment facility.
   (B)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the City, after approval by
the Board of Public Works and Safety shall, among other things, provide for an
appeal procedure whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of
the administrator of the sewage system and user charge system to the Board of
Public Works and Safety and that of Public Works and Safety may be appealed to
the circuit court of the county under the appeal procedures provided for in the
Indiana Administrative Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 1987-17, passed 10-15-87; Am. Ord. 1998-19, passed 10-20-98; Am. Ord.
2022-17, passed 12-27-22)
CHAPTER 55: ELECTRICITY; LIGHT AND POWER
Section
General Provisions
   
55.01   Electricity curtailment
Terms and Conditions of Service
   
55.15   Definitions
   
55.16   Application for service
   
55.17   Security deposit
   
55.18   Notices
   
55.19   Billing procedures
   
55.20   Access to premises
   
55.21   Connections
   
55.22   Interruptions and disconnections
   
55.23   Fraudulent usage
   
55.24   Equipment and construction; maintenance
   
55.25   Character of service
   
55.26   Free service
   
55.27   Meters
   
55.28   Requested information
   
55.29   Modifications of rules
Class of Service; Rates
   
55.40   Residential electric service
   
55.41   Commercial electric service
   
55.42   General industrial and power service
   
55.43   Municipal lighting service
   
55.44   Outdoor lighting service
   
55.45   Rate adjustments
   
55.46   Fuel cost adjustment
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 55.01 ELECTRICITY CURTAILMENT.
   The electric curtailment rules for the municipal electric utility of the
City of Boonville, Indiana, as set forth in Appendix I of Ordinance 1978-3, is
adopted and approved. The said electric curtailment rules herein adopted and
approved are hereby authorized to be filed with the Public Service Commission
of Indiana for information purposes only and so identified.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 2-16-78)
**** TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE ****
§ 55.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Public Service Commission of Indiana, or any successor of
such commission having jurisdiction of the subject matter hereof.
   CUSTOMER. A person, partnership, association, firm, public or private
corporation or governmental agency applying for or using electric service
supplied by utility.
   UTILITY or COMPANY. The Boonville Municipal Electric Utility, which
furnishes electric service under these rules and regulations.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.16 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Each applicant for electric service will be required to sign a form provided
by the utility, setting forth:
   (A)   The date of application;
   (B)   The location of premises to be served;
   (C)   The date on which the applicant will be ready for service;
   (D)   Whether the premises have ever before been supplied by the utility;
   (E)   The purpose for which the service is to be used;
   (F)   The size of service;
   (G)   The address to which the bills are to be mailed or delivered;
   (H)   Whether the applicant is an owner or tenant of, or an agent for the
owner of the premises. If applicant is an agent, the utility may require proof
of his authority; and
   (I)   An agreement to abide by all rules and regulations of the utility. The
rates, rules and regulations, ordinances, and conditions applying to electric
service hereinafter named shall constitute and be considered a part of the
contract with every person, firm, organization or corporation who is supplied
with electricity from the system of the utility, and every person, firm,
organization or corporation, hereinafter called the customer, who accepts and
uses electric service shall be held to have consented to be bound hereby.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.17 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   (1)   A cash deposit equal to two (2) times the estimated average
monthly charge shall be made by the customer as security for the payment of
electric service bills, but in no case shall said deposit be less than twenty
($20.00) dollars. Deposits prescribed herein, less the amount of any unpaid
service bills, will be refunded. Deposits cannot be sold or transferred by one
customer to another except by consent of the utility. Deposits may be refunded
after a satisfactory credit has been established over no less than a two (2)
year period or upon proof of home ownership.
      (2)   Deposits will be applied to unpaid balances if service has been
discontinued by the utility because of nonpayment of bills and the full amount
shall be re-established before service will be resumed. Service so discontinued
shall not be restored until all sums then due and owing, shall be paid, plus a
turn-on charge of five ($5.00) dollars.
      (3)   The utility reserves the right to refuse to render service to any
applicant indebted to it for service rendered at any location in the community
served by the utility within three (3) years prior to such application, until
such indebtedness is settled to the satisfaction of the utility.
   (B)   In case the character or volume of customer's service should change at
any time so that customer's deposit is inadequate to insure payment of bills,
the utility reserves the right to require customer to increase his deposit to
an amount satisfactory to utility.
   (C)   Deposit shall be refunded by utility to customer upon termination of
use of all services, provided that customer has paid all bills due to utility;
has given utility an opportunity to remove its meters and equipment in an
undamaged condition and surrenders the deposit receipt. Utility may require the
identification of the person surrendering deposit receipt. In case customer
shall have lost the deposit receipt, utility will require that customer sign
its standard release form acknowledging return of the deposit.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.18 NOTICES.
   (A)   Notice to customers. Notices from the utility to a customer will
normally be given in writing, and either delivered or mailed to him at his last
known address. Where conditions warrant, the utility may resort to notification
either by telephone or messenger.
   (B)   Notices from customers. Notice from the customer to utility may be
given by him or his authorized representative orally or in writing at the
utility's office.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.19 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Opening and closing bills.
      (1)   Opening bills, closing bills, and special bills rendered for
periods smaller than the normal monthly billing period will be prorated.
      (2)   For metered service, if actual use is greater than the monthly
minimum, the charges shall be based on actual consumption. In case electric
service is rendered for a period less than the regular billing period of one
(1) month, the monthly service charge shall be prorated on the basis of the
number of days served. In no case shall a bill be rendered for service for less
than one-half the monthly service charge.
   (B)   Meter readings and bills.
      (1)   Meters will be read at regular intervals for preparation of regular
bills, and as required for the preparation of opening bills, closing bills and
special bills.
      (2)   Charges for electrical service furnished by utility shall be billed
and collected monthly. All bills for electrical service are due and payable on
or before the date specified thereon. When payments are made by mail, bills
will be considered as having been paid on date of mailing as shown by postmark.
      (3)   If for any reason whatsoever, the utility's meter reader cannot
gain access to the meter, an average bill may be rendered and the amount
thereof shall be considered as due and payable provided no objection is made to
the amount thereof at the office of the utility by the customer in person or in
writing on or before the date specified for payment. Should the customer object
to such a bill, the service charge allowed in the rate schedule shall be due
and payable on the same date. All meters for electrical service shall be read
and billed separately. No submetering will be permitted.
      (4)   Utility reserves the right to adopt the plan of dividing the city
or territory into districts and of reading meters in each district at a
selected time.
   (C)   Delinquent bills and collection charges. A deferred payment charge of
ten (10%) percent of the first three ($3.00) dollars of current bill and three
(3%) percent of amount of current bill in excess of three ($3.00) dollars will
be added unless amount due is paid on or before delinquent date as stated on
bill. Delinquent date will not be less than ten (10) days from date of issue.
Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth day, as evidenced by
the U.S. Post Office mark on the envelope in which they are received, will be
accepted by the Utility as a tender of payment within such fifteen day period.
When the fifteenth day falls on Sunday or any other legal holiday, the first
business day thereafter shall be considered as being within the fifteen day
period.
   (D)   Payment after net bill period. Once in each half calendar year, but
not more often, customer will be permitted to make payment of a single bill at
the net amount after expiration of the prompt payment period; upon submission
by customer of evidence to the utility that payment was not made within the
prompt payment period due to absence from the city, illness or other sufficient
reason.
   (E)   Adjustment of bills for meter error
      (1)   Whenever any test by the utility or by the Commission of a watt-
hour meter while in service or on its removal from service shall show such
meter to have an average error of more than four (4) percent, the following
provisions for the adjustment of bills shall be observed:
      (2)   The error found shall be considered for the purpose of this rule to
have existed for the six (6) months preceding the test or for the time the
meter has been in service at that location if less than six (6) months. If the
meter be found faster than allowable, utility shall refund to customer
concerned any overcharge caused thereby during the period of inaccuracy of the
meter as above defined. The actual error of the meter and not the difference
between the allowable error and the error as found shall be used as the basis
for calculating the refund.
      (3)   If the meter be found to under-register, the utility shall render a
bill to customer concerned for the estimated consumption not covered by bills
previously rendered during the period of-inaccuracy as defined in the preceding
paragraph. Such action shall be taken, however, only in cases where the bill
for estimated inaccuracy amounts to fifty (50) cents or more and all such bills
shall be conditional upon the utility not being at fault for allowing the
inaccurate meter to remain in service.
      (4)   The accuracy and testing of utility's meters shall be in accordance
with the rules of the commission applying thereto.
   (F)   Nonregistering meters. The utility may bill the customer for
electricity used while the meter was not registering. At the option of the
utility the bill will be either at the minimum monthly meter rate or will be
computed upon an estimate of consumption based upon the customer's prior use
during the same season of the year.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.20 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The Utility's authorized representative shall have free access to the
premises of the customer at all reasonable hours for the purpose of reading the
meter or inspecting the metering equipment and all other equipment relating to
utility's service or for making the necessary repairs or tests to its
equipment, or for removing its meter and equipment.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.21 CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Company will designate the point at which the service lines will be
connected to the Customer's facilities. The Customer's wires, at the point of
connection with the Company's lines, if service is overhead, shall extend at
least three feet (3) beyond the outer end of any conduit, weatherproof fitting,
or insulator in order to facilitate this connection.
   (B)   A residential Customer desiring an underground service which is to be
connected to an overhead distribution system of the Company shall at his own
expense provide a conduit riser of a size designated by the Company below the
meter base to a depth below grade as required by the Company. In addition, the
Customer shall make a non-refundable contribution in aid of construction to the
Company in an amount equal to the product of the route of the proposed line
distance in feet from the base of the Company's riser pole to a point directly
below the Customer's meter multiplied by one dollar and twenty cents ($1.20).
Such amount shall be paid to the Company by the customer prior to actual
construction of the service.
   (C)   A residential Customer desiring an underground service which is to be
connected to an underground distribution system of the Company shall at his own
expense provide a conduit riser of a size designated by the Company below the
meter base to a depth below grade as required by the Company. In addition, the
Customer shall make a non-refundable contribution in aid of construction to the
Company in an amount equal to the product of the route of the proposed line
distance in feet from the termination of the Company's facilities at the front
or rear property line to a point directly below the Customer's meter base
multiplied at seventy five cents ($.75). Such amount shall be paid to the
Company by the Customer prior to actual construction of the service.
   (D)   Underground service lines to a Commercial Customer(s), Apartment
House, Apartment House Complexes, or group of adjacent such Customers whether
served from the overhead distribution system of the Company or an adjacent
under ground distribution system of the Company will be available at an
additional charge to the Customer. A non-refundable contribution in aid of
construction to the Company by the Customer(s) shall be made in an amount equal
to the estimated difference in installed cost between underground and overhead
construction. Such amount shall be paid to the Company by the Customer(s) prior
to actual construction of any underground service lines.
   (E)   The Company shall install, own and maintain the service lines from its
facilities to the Customer's meter on underground service.
   (F)   Any changes made in service connections at the Customer's request,
after the original installation, shall be at the Customer's expense.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.22 INTERRUPTIONS AND DISCONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Interruptions in service. The utility will endeavor to furnish
continuous service but does not guarantee uninterrupted service, and shall not
be liable for any damages which the customer may sustain by reason of the
failure of the energy, or failure or reversal of phases, whether caused by
accident, repair or other causes; nor shall the utility be liable for damages
that may be incurred by the use of electrical appliances, or the presence of
the utility's property on customer's premises, or to third persons from the use
of electricity, unless due to fault or neglect on the part of the utility. In
case the customer requires three-phase service, he shall install and maintain
adequate relays with circuit breakers to protect against phase reversal and
single-phase conditions; and his failure to do so shall absolve the utility
from responsibility for loss or damage so resulting. Neither party shall be
liable to the other for any failure by strikes, the acts of God, or unavoidable
accidents or contingencies beyond its control, and is not due to fault, neglect
or culpability on its part.
   (B)   Disconnections of service by utility for purpose of repair. The
utility reserves the right to disconnect its service for the purpose of making
repairs, betterments or extensions on any part of its lines, machinery, plant
or system, without notice to customer. However, the utility will strive to
restrict disconnection of its service to times it will cause the least
inconvenience to the customer; and insofar as possible will notify the customer
in advance of such disconnection. Repairs or improvements will be prosecuted as
rapidly as is practicable. The utility will not be held responsible or liable
for any injury or damage suffered directly or indirectly by customer, or any
agent or employee of the customer, on account of the disconnection of the
service without notice to the customer for the making of such, repairs,
betterments or extensions.
   (C)   Discontinuance of service. A customer may have his electrical service
discontinued by notifying the utility reasonably well in advance of the desired
date of discontinuance. He will be required to pay all electrical service
charges until the date of such discontinuance notice.
   (D)   Discontinuance of service for vacation purposes. Whenever a customer
desires discontinuance of service for vacation purposes, he shall notify the
utility of such desire and of the date of which service is to be discontinued,
sufficiently in advance of date to provide a reasonable time for the utility to
obtain the final meter reading. The customer may have the option of paying the
minimum charge for service during such period, or paying the reconnection
charge of five ($5.00) dollars. This rule shall not apply to any case where a
customer has entered into a contract with the utility to take service for a
definite period of time specified or provided for in such contract.
   (E)   Discontinuance of service for non-payment. Where bills for service
have not been paid by the delinquent date, as stated on bill, which will not be
less than fifteen (15) days from date of issue, service shall be discontinued
and a reconnection charge of five ($5.00) dollars shall be required before
service is restored. Reconnection will be made only after the customer has
established his credit.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.23 FRAUDULENT USAGE.
   (A)   Resale prohibited. The service furnished is for the sole use of the
customer; customer shall not sell or re-deliver electric service to any other
person without the written consent of utility. In case electric energy supplied
by the utility to the customer is resold without the consent of the utility,
service shall be discontinued after two (2) days written notice. If service is
required to be discontinued for this cause, a reconnection of five ($5.00)
dollars shall be required to be paid before service is restored.
   (B)   Fraudulent use of electricity. In the event that evidence is found
indicating fraudulent use of electricity or tampering with utility's meter or
equipment, the utility may discontinue service without notice. Though the
customer may be ignorant of such fraudulent use or tampering, the utility shall
not be required to restore service in such cases, until proper restitution is
made, including payment for any unmetered energy use, damage to utility's
property, and until the proper type meter assembly and wiring shall have been
installed by the customer, and payment of five ($5.00) dollars reconnect charge
is made to the utility.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 55.24 EQUIPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Changes in customer's equipment. Customers making any material change
in the size, character or extent of the equipment or operations utilizing
electric service, or whose change in operations results in a large increase in
the use of electricity, shall immediately give the utility written notice of
the nature of the change and, if necessary, amend their application.
   (B)   Unsafe apparatus. The utility may refuse to furnish electricity
service to any premises where apparatus, appliances or equipment using
electricity is dangerous, unsafe or affects matters, of health and safety or is
not in conformity with any applicable laws or ordinances. In any case where
utility has received notice that a dangerous condition exists on customer's
premises, utility may, without any advance notice, shut off the service, and
same shall not be resumed until such dangerous condition shall have been
eliminated. The utility assumes no responsibility for defects in customer's
appliances or equipment or for the escape or damage caused by escape of
electric energy on the customer's premises. The utility does reserve the right
of inspection if there is reason to believe that unsafe apparatus is in use.
   (C)   Meter seals. Seals will be placed by utility on all meters or meter
enclosures, and such seals shall not be broken or disturbed by anyone other
than an authorized representative of the utility.
   (D)   Liability for leakage and damage. The utility will not be liable for
any loss, damage or injury whatsoever caused by escape or loss of electricity
after same has passed through the utility's meter herein defined as “point of
delivery,” nor for defects in the customer's wiring, equipment or appliances.
   (E)   Charges for work done on customer's premises. The utility shall charge
for all materials furnished and for all work done on customer's premises, and
for trouble calls not occasioned by default or negligence on the part of the
utility. Such charges shall be based upon costs as determined herein. The
utility shall not charge for any costs of replacements or repairs to equipment
furnished and owned by the utility on customer's premises, except when damage
is due to negligence or misuse by customer or his agents.
   (F)   Basis of determining costs. The term cost or actual cost as used
herein will be the actual cost of materials used and labor required, plus
twenty (20) percent for use of tools, equipment and appliances, storeroom and
accounting expense, insurance and supervision.
   (G)   Liability. The customer shall save utility harmless from all claims
for trespass, injury to persons, or damages to lawn, trees, shrubs, buildings
or other property that may be caused by reason of the installation or
replacement of the service wires and other necessary appurtenances to serve
customer, unless it shall affirmatively appear that the injury to persons or
damage to property complained of, has been caused by wilful default or
negligence on the part of the utility or its accredited personnel.
   (H)   Wiring requirements. All wiring and equipment connected with the
Utility's service owned or controlled by the customer, shall be suitable for
the purpose intended and shall be installed in accordance with the requirements
of the latest edition of the National Electrical Code, and the National
Electrical Safety Code, with all regulations of the utility. Such customer's
wiring shall be so maintained by the customer at all times. The utility
reserves the right to refuse to connect its service to any wiring or apparatus
if it discovers that same does not meet these requirements. However, connection
of the utility's service to customer's wiring shall not imply that all such
requirements have been met, and the utility is under no obligation to inspect
such wiring either before or after making connection therewith. Also, the
utility may discontinue service to any customer, without notice, when a
defective condition of wiring or equipment upon the customer's premises
results, or is likely to result, in the interference with proper service.
   (I)   Customer's wiring installation. All service entrance wires hereafter
installed shall not be less than number 4 kwg, and shall be identified in
accordance with the latest edition of the National Electrical Code. They shall
be so located that the point of attachment for utility's service shall be not
less than ten (10) feet or more than twenty-five (25) feet above the ground
line, except that in special cases, the utility may designate a particular
point of attachment. Service entrance wires at end of conduit shall be
protected with weatherproof head so installed that the extended wires will
slope downward to prevent the entrance of moisture, and shall be so located
that the, and utility's service wires will be at least two (2) feet from other
wires, downspouts, eaves troughs, etc., and will not be within reach of
windows, porches, porch roofs, balconies or other easily accessible parts of
the building. Such service entrance wires shall extend at least three (3) feet
beyond the weather head on conduit, and be so located as to be convenient for
attachment of the utility's service wires.
   (J)   Location of service entrance. The service entrance shall be located at
a point on the building most convenient for connection to the utility's service
pole, with due regard for the desirability of avoiding the crossing of adjacent
property. Either before or during the construction of the customer's building,
the utility will, upon request, advise the customer, without charge, as to the
proper location of his service entrance. In cases where the service entrance is
not located in accordance with the above, the utility reserves the right to
refuse to install the service wires until such time as the service entrance has
been properly located. Such proper location shall be determined by the utility.
   (K)   Supports for service wires. On stucco, tile, brick or stone veneer, or
other masonry walls, where it is necessary to install supports for service span
wires of the utility, the customer must install one galvanized bolt for each
contemplated service wire. If possible, such bolts should be installed during
the construction of the supporting wall; in any case, the bolts should be
securely fastened to supporting wall or framework. The threaded ends of the
bolts should protrude from the outside wall a distance of not more than one (1)
inch. Bolts shall be one-half inch in diameter and shall be spaced
approximately eight (8) inches apart and all in the same plane.
   (L)   Underground residential distribution facilities; exceptions.
      (1)   For the construction of an underground electric distribution
system, (15,000 volts or less to ground for wye connected systems) in a new
residential subdivision or an existing residential subdivision in which
electric distribution facilities have not already been constructed, the owner
or developer of such subdivision(s) shall be required to make a non-refundable
contribution in aid of construction to the Company in an amount equal to the
work order trench-foot measurement multiplied by one dollar fifty cents
($1.50), which amount shall be considered to be the difference in cost between
overhead and direct burial underground facilities. Such contribution in aid of
construction shall be paid to the Company by the owner or developer prior to
actual construction of the underground system.
      (2)   The construction provided for in the $1.50 per trench-foot
contribution in aid of construction includes the extension of electric
distribution facilities to the lot line of each lot in the underground service
area of the subdivision.
      (3)   The developer or owner of any residential subdivision which is to
be served by underground electric distribution facilities shall furnish to the
company free of charge to the Company drawings and prints and at least one
“sepia” print or equivalent which indicates plotted lots, sewers, water lines,
and any other pertinent data relative to the construction of underground
electric distribution facilities by the Company. The developer or owner shall
furnish free of charge to the Company all necessary easements required by the
Company for the construction and maintenance of an underground electric
distribution facility.
      (4)   For complete underground electric primary and secondary service in
a plot of ground there shall be a minimum of eight (8) plotted lots.
      (5)   The Company shall install, own and maintain the electric
distribution system.
   (M)   Compliance with safety requirements. Service entrance, switch boxes,
service cabinets, switches, fuse blocks, meter bases or sockets, conduit,
wiring, connections and other equipment, and the installation thereof for the
reception and control of electrical energy delivered to customer, shall be of
types approved by the utility and shall meet the requirements of the National
Board of Fire Underwriters, and comply with the state and municipal codes
insofar as they apply in accordance with the requirements of the National Board
of Fire Underwriters, meter service boxes, meter sockets, conduits and wiring
on customer's premises shall be permanently grounded for the customer's
protection.
   (N)   Maintenance and replacement of appurtenances. Utility will maintain
and replace when necessary all appurtenances furnished by it to serve the
customer, including the metering equipment and service wires to customer's
entrance. Customer shall maintain and replace when necessary all services and
appurtenances furnished by customer for reception and use of electricity
supplied, and maintain them at all times in condition to render satisfactory
service.
   (O)   Outside metering installations.
      (1)   If electric metering installations are to be made on premises not
heretofore supplied with electricity by utility, customers shall furnish and
install, at their expense, outside metering installations in accordance with
utility's plan therefor
      (2)   If heavy duty household appliances that require added capacity for
facilities supplying electric service, such as electric range or electric water
heater, are to be installed on premises heretofore supplied with electric
service by utility, outside metering installation shall be provided at
customer's expense and in accordance with utility's standards.
      (3)   If changes that involve the replacement or relocation of entrance
wires, entrance switches, etc., are to be made in existing installations,
outside metering shall be provided at customer's expense in accordance with
utility's standards.
      (4)   If customers elect to change the location of meters from inside to
outside, the cost of installing outside meter shall be borne by customer and
shall be done in accordance with utility's standards.
      (5)   If interference with the proper registration of electric meters has
been definitely established, outside installation of meters shall be made at
customer's expense and in accordance with utility's standards therefor. In all
cases meter receptacles will be furnished without charge by utility.
   (P)   Inside metering installations.
      (1)   If, in the judgement of utility's representative, it is physically
impracticable in some instances to install outdoor metering in accordance with
provisions herein, and if all of customer's wiring preceding the meters is in
solid metal conduit, and if entrance switches, fuses, and all other
appurtenances follow the meters in proper sequence, then indoor metering
installations may continue to be used, if meters are installed in receptacles
furnished without charge by utility.
      (2)   Inside metering equipment hereafter installed shall be located on
the first floor as near as possible to the service entrance and in a clean,
dry, safe place not subject to wide variations in temperature. No meter shall
be placed in any location where its accuracy may be affected by vibration or
exposure to the elements or in any location where the visits of the meter
reader or tester shall cause annoyance to the customer.
      (3)   No meter shall be located at a height of less than five (5) feet or
more than six (6) feet from the floor or ground level.
   (Q)   Multi-metering installations. Where buildings or premises are occupied
by more than one customer, utility will set as many meters as there are
separate applications for service, and will connect the meters to one set of
service wires, providing the wires are sufficiently large to furnish an ample
supply for all customers. Building wiring shall be so arranged as to permit the
installation of utility's meters adjacent to each other.
   (R)   Highly fluctuating or intermittent loads. Service to equipment having
highly fluctuating or intermittent characteristics and having a combined input
capacity in excess of three (3) kw will not be permitted under a residential or
commercial rate. customers having x-ray or welding machines having a total
input capacity in excess of three (3) kw can secure service for such equipment
under the applicable power rates.
   (S)   Neon or fluorescent equipment and radio interference. Any commercial
customer installing neon, fluorescent or other types of gaseous tube lighting,
including signs, will be required to furnish, install and maintain, at his own
expense, corrective apparatus so that the power factor at all times, of each
unit or each group of units controlled through one switch, will not be less
than ninety (90) percent lagging. Any customer operating equipment such as
above mentioned, or other apparatus that is found to be causing radio
interference will be requested to discontinue the use of such equipment or
apparatus or to install corrective equipment to eliminate the radio
interference. Failure or refusal, to comply with the above shall be sufficient
cause to discontinue service. In such a case, the service shall not be
reconnected until the utility is assured that the radio interference creating
device has been corrected or eliminated.
   (T)   Service to multiple units.
      (1)   The utility's rates are based upon the supply of service being
rendered separately for each premises and for the ultimate usage in or on such
separate premises. The combining of service through one meter, or two or more
separate classifications, or of two or more premises, or of two or more
separate living quarters of the same premises, will not be permitted except as
specifically provided for under the rate schedules, and these rules and
regulations, or supplements thereto. An outlying or adjacent building of the
customer, if located on the same may be served from the supply to the main
building, provided the use of such supply to the adjacent building is
supplemental and similar to the usage in the main building.
      (2)   “Premises,” as used herein, shall mean the main residence or living
quarters for the use of single family, or main building of a commercial
customer, and shall include the outlying or adjacent buildings used by the same
provided the use of service in the outlying buildings is supplemental and
similar to the service used in the main residence of building.
   (U)   Extension of rural lines and facilities. Unless otherwise provided in
the utility's rate schedules or rules and regulations, the utility will extend
its lines and facilities in accordance with the Terms and Conditions Governing
Extension of Rural Lines, as most recently approved by the Public Service
Commission of Indiana. A contract for service may be required containing such
terms as may be required to reasonably assure utility that the revenue to be
received from the proposed extension or facility will equal the utility's cost.
   (V)   Service extensions to trailer courts.
      (1)   The utility shall furnish without charge, a primary, alternating
current, sixty cycle, single phase circuit not to exceed three (300') hundred
feet in length from its main line pole, and a three wire, single phase, 110/
220,volts, overhead secondary circuit of adequate size and not to exceed two
(200') hundred feet in length to serve all new trailer courts adjacent to its
system in any township or incorporated political subdivision in which the
utility has a franchise or permit for the distribution and sale of electric
service. The cost of the primary circuit extension in excess of three (300')
hundred feet and the cost of the overhead secondary circuit in excess of two
(200') hundred feet shall be the customer's expense. The primary and secondary
circuit extensions shall include the cost of all materials, and labor required
for the installation of poles, wires, crossarms, line hardware, insulators,
switching and protective devices, and transformers. The cost of clearing the
right-of-way, surveys, easements, permits and other rights shall be the
customer's expense. The customer shall provide and maintain at his expense, an
overhead secondary wiring system as required in excess of two (200') hundred
feet. The secondary wiring system shall be of adequate size to allow a maximum
load of thirty (30) amperes for each trailer served without causing an
objectionable drop in voltage. The customer shall furnish meter loops and
provide suitable locations for meters with easy access for reading and
inspection at all times.
      (2)   All wiring and equipment connected with the utility's service,
owned or controlled by the customer, shall be suitable for the purpose intended
and shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of the latest
edition of the National Electrical Code, and the National Board of Fire
Underwriters, and shall be further governed by the Utility's standard rules,
regulations and conditions applying to electric service.
      (3)   All individual underground services to trailers shall be provided
with over-load protection on the load side of meter. All service entrance wires
for meter loops serving two trailers shall be not less than two #6AWG, and one
#8AWG, in rigid iron conduit or standard service entrance cable of equivalent
size. The utility shall make final connections of meter loop wires to overhead
secondary supply conductors on all new installations. Meter receptacles will be
furnished without charge by the utility.
      (4)   Each trailer in an established trailer court shall be metered
through a separate service connection and billed monthly by the utility. In
accordance with the requirements of the National Board of Fire Underwriters,
the customer shall provide, at his expense, and for his protection, an adequate
grounding system for all service boxes, conduits and wiring on customer's
premises. The point of delivery and location of poles on customer's premises
shall be defined by mutual agreement between utility and customer. The utility
reserves the right to repair, replace and maintain the meter, as well as remove
it upon discontinuance of service. The utility shall not be held liable for
damages to the customer or third persons, resulting from the use of the service
on the customer's premises, or from the presence of the utility's appliances or
equipment on the customer's premises.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.25 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   The utility shall provide alternating current, 60 cycles, 220,
and 7,200/2,400 volts, three phase, for general power use to all customers
adjacent to its distribution system within the corporate limits of the City of
Boonville. Service available for domestic use to residential customers using
standard electric service or individual apartment shall be alternating current,
120/240 volts, 60 cycles, single phase.
      (2)   Service available for use to all commercial and industrial
customers using standard electric service in any building, other than a
resident or individual apartment shall be alternating current 120/240 volts, 60
cycles, single phase, or 120/240 and 7,200/2,400 volts three phase.
      (3)   Motors of one-half (½) horsepower or more shall be 220 volts. All
motors of five (5) horsepower or less shall be single phase, unless permitted
by the utility. All motors of more than five (5) horsepower shall be three
phase where service can be obtained by direct connections with the utility's
existing three-phase system, or where only a reasonable extension of the
existing three-phase system is necessary. For all motors in excess of five (5)
horsepower, the utility may require an approved device for properly limiting
the starting current.
   (B)   Meters installed temporarily for construction work or similar purposes
shall be placed in boxes or other temporary enclosures that will properly
protect the meter from damage. Such installations must be made in a manner so
that unauthorized persons cannot remove meter or interfere with its proper
registration. Charges for electric service furnished through a temporary
service connection shall be at the established rates for other customers. The
customer shall be required to pay all costs for labor and materials incidental
to supplying and removing of service facilities. The utility may require a
suitable deposit to insure payment of the service installation and removal
costs. The costs shall be determined as stipulated herein. Temporary service
applies to circuses, carnivals, fairs, temporary construction, and the like.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.26 FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be furnished by the utility to the city or to any
person, firm or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency, or any
organization. Charges for electric services furnished by the utility shall be
billed and collected monthly.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.27 METERS.
   (A)   Grouping. In apartment houses, stores, and other similar
installations; having two, three or four meters served from a single service
entrance, a main entrance switch need not be used, if the meter service
switches are grouped at the point of service entrance. Installations involving
five (5) or more meters served from a single service entrance, a safety-type,
main service switch with fuses or circuit breakers must be installed to control
the entire load. Each meter shall be deemed as serving one customer and the
billing shall be made accordingly.
   (B)   Meters to be furnished and installed by utility. The electricity shall
be measured as to consumption and, at the option of the utility, as to maximum
demand, by a meter or meters to be furnished and installed by the utility upon
the premises at a point most convenient for the utility's service and upon the
registration of such meter or meters all bills, other than bills for minimum
charges, will be calculated.
   (C)   Creeping meters. Whenever the utility shall find a watthour meter in
its place of service to be creeping, an estimate shall be made of the
registration which the creeping has produced during the six (6) months
preceding the date the creeping was found, or for the time the meter has been
in service at that location if less than six (6) months, and a corresponding
refund shall be made to customer by the utility.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.28 REQUESTED INFORMATION.
   Upon request by any party interested therein, the utility shall furnish
necessary information regarding the location of its distribution pole lines,
service wires or underground wires, and the character of service available at
any location.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.29 MODIFICATIONS OF RULES.
   (A)   No agent, representative, or employee of the utility shall have the
power or authority to amend, modify, alter, or waive rates, terms, conditions,
rules or regulations filed with the Public Service Commission of Indiana; but
the public authorities of the utility shall have the right to amend these
rates, rules, regulations and conditions, or make such additions or changes as
it may deem necessary from time to time, subject to their approval by the
Commission.
   (B)   All rules, regulations, conditions and rates, and parts thereof,
insofar as the same may be in conflict herewith, are hereby canceled.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
**** CLASS OF SERVICE; RATES ****
§ 55.40 RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability.
      (1)   Available for single phase residential services, including
residential lighting, household appliances, refrigeration, cooking appliances,
water heating, space heating and cooling, and small motors not exceeding (3)
three horsepower individual capacity.
      (2)   Applicant must be located on the Utility's distribution lines
suitable for supplying the service requested.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, sixty-cycle, single phase,
at a voltage of approximate: 120 volts two wire, or 120/240 volts three
   (C)   Rates.
      (1)   Summer energy charge. For all kwh used during the billing months of
June through September, inclusive, the rate per month shall be 5.95 cents per
kwh.
      (2)   Winter energy charge. For all kwh used during the billing months of
October through May, inclusive, the rate per month shall be 4.61 cents per kwh.
      (3)   Customer service charge. In addition to the energy charge, each
customer shall be charged a service charge of $2.70 per month, per meter. The
customer's minimum service charge under this rate shall be the monthly customer
service charge of ($2.70).
      (4)   Rate adjustment. The above rates are subject to a Purchased Power
Cost Adjustment Tracking Factor, in accordance with the order of the Public
Service Commission of Indiana approved December 17, 1976, in Cause No. 34614.
The Purchased Power Cost Adjustment Tracking Factor stated in §§
55.45 and
55.46.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.41 COMMERCIAL ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available for commercial service including commercial
lighting, miscellaneous small appliances, refrigeration, cooking, water
heating, space heating and cooling, and incidental motors not exceeding three
(3) horsepower individual capacity. Applicant must be located on the Utility's
distribution lines suitable for supplying the service requested.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, sixty-cycle, single phase,
120 volts two wire, 120/240 volts three wire, or three phase, 220 volts three
wire.
   (C)   Rates.
      (1)   Summer energy charge. For all kwh used during the billing months of
June through September, inclusive, the rate per month shall be 6.40 cents per
kwh.
      (2)   Winter energy charge. For all kwh used during the billing months of
October through May, inclusive, the rate per month shall be 4.83 cents per kwh.
      (3)   Customer service charge. In addition to the energy charge, each
customer shall be charged a service charge of $5.25 per month, per meter.
      (4)   Minimum charge. The customer's minimum service charge under this
rate shall be the monthly customer service charge ($5.25).
   (D)   Rate adjustment. The above rates are subject to a Purchased Power Cost
Adjustment Tracking Factor, in accordance with the order of the Public Service
Commission of Indiana approved December 17, 1976, in Cause No. 34614. The
Purchased Power Cost Adjustment Tracking Factor stated in §§
55.45 and
55.46.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.42 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL AND POWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability.
      (1)   Available for any customer having an installed capacity of 500 KVA
or greater served through a single meter, except as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Applicant must be located adjacent to an electric transmission or
distribution line of the Utility, within the limits of the City of Boonville or
elsewhere within an area in which the Utility has a franchise or permit for the
distribution and sale of electricity, that is adequate and suitable for
supplying the service requested.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, sixty-cycle, 220 or 7,200/
2,400 volts, three wire, three phase and metered through one meter.
   (C)   Rates.
      (1)   Summer energy charge. For all kwh used during the billing months of
June through September, inclusive, the rate per month shall be 5.06 cents per
kwh.
      (2)   Winter energy charge. For all kwh used during the billing months of
October through May, inclusive, the rate per month shall be 4.28 cents per kwh.
      (3)   Customer service charge. In addition to the energy charge, each
customer shall be charged a service charge of $42.00 per month, per meter.
      (4)   Minimum charge. The customer's minimum service charge under this
rate shall be the monthly customer service charge ($42.00).
   (D)   Rate adjustment. The above rates are subject to a Purchased Power Cost
Adjustment Tracking Factor, in accordance with the order of the Public Service
Commission of Indiana approved December 17, 1976, in Cause No. 34614. The
Purchased Power Cost Adjustment Tracking Factor stated in §§
55.45 and
55.46.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.43 MUNICIPAL LIGHTING SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available to the City of Boonville for street lighting
services within the corporate limits and for traffic signals on federal, state
and county highways, and on city streets within the corporate limits of the
City of Boonville.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, sixty-cycle, single phase,
at a voltage of approximately 120 volts two-wire, or 120/240 volts three-wire.
   (C)   Rates. All energy consumed shall be 7.55 per kwh.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.44 OUTDOOR LIGHTING SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available only for continuous year-round service for
outdoor lighting to any residential, farm, commercial or industrial customer
located adjacent to an electric distribution line of Utility that is adequate
and suitable for supplying the service requested.
   (B)   Character of service. Dusk-to-dawn outdoor lighting service using
lamps available under this schedule.
   (C)   Rate.
      (1)   175 watt, 7,000 lumen: $7.50;
      (2)   400 watt, 20,000 lumen: $10.95;
      (3)   400 watt, 20,000 lumen (directional): $11.90;
      (4)   1,000 watt, 50,000 lumen (directional): $21.95.
   (D)   Hours of lighting. All lamps shall burn approximately one-half hour
after sunset until approximately one-half hour before sunrise each day in the
year, approximately four thousand (4,000) hours per annum.
   (E)   Ownership of system.
      (1)   All facilities installed by the Utility for service hereunder
including fixtures, controls, poles, transformers, secondary lines, lamps and
other appurtenances shall be owned and maintained by the Utility. All service
and necessary maintenance will be performed only during regularly scheduled
working hours of the Utility. Non-operative lamps will normally be restored to
service within 48 hours after notification by the customer.
      (2)   When the customer requests that a lamp be mounted on the customer's
pole or building, the customer waives any claim for damages caused by the
installation and/or removal of secondary and lamp support.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.45 RATE ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   This section is applicable to §§
55.40 through
55.42.
   (B)   The rate adjustment shall be on the basis of a Purchased Power Cost
Adjustment Tracking Factor, occasioned solely by changes in the cost of
purchased power, in accordance with the order of the Public Service Commission
of Indiana, approved December 17, 1976, in Cause No. 34614 as follows: the rate
adjustment applicable to the above listed rate schedules shall be $.000000 per
kwh used per month.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)
§ 55.46 FUEL COST ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   This section is applicable to §§
55.40 through
55.42.
   (B)   (1)   The fuel cost adjustment in dollars per kilowatt hour shall be
the same as that most recently billed to the Boonville Municipal Electric
Utility by its purchased power supplier less $.000000 per kilowatt hour.
      (2)   Such difference to be divided by one (1) minus the total energy
losses of the Utility for the preceding calendar year expressed as a decimal
fraction of the total energy purchased for the same year.
(Ord. 1980-35, passed 12-18-80)

TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
71.   PARKING RULES
   
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
   
74.   OFF ROAD VEHICLES
   
75.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Operation at city lakes
   
70.02   Operation of tractors and trailers
   
70.03   Funeral processions
   
70.04   Trucks prohibited on city streets
   
70.05   Golf carts prohibited on city streets
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Golf carts, see
Ch. 75
   Parades, circuses and the like, see §
112.01
   Unlawful noise, see §
130.01
§ 70.01 OPERATION AT CITY LAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicles, motorcycles or motor bicycles
or in any manner, to be operated on the levee or dam at city lakes.
(Ord. 1955-7, passed 5-24-55)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.02 OPERATION OF TRACTORS AND TRAILERS.
   (A)   This shall be unlawful or any person, firm or corporation to propel,
haul or draw, or cause to be propelled, hauled or drawn any portable traction
engine, tractor or other heavy conveyance or machine on wheels having cleats,
lugs, spikes or other devices projecting therefrom, upon, over, across or along
any improved street in the corporate limits of the City of Boonville, Indiana;
provided, however, that it shall be lawful for any person, firm or corporation
having charge of any such portable traction engine, tractor, heavy conveyance
or machine, on wheels of the kind described, to cross any such street at any of
its intersections if such person, firm or corporation shall first place or
cause to be placed on the surface of such improved street wooden boards of at
least two inches in thickness and of a width equal the width of the wheels
which to propel of the conveyance over haul or draw such engine, tractor,
conveyance or machine, such boards to be provided and laid at the expense of
such person, firm or corporation and to be removed immediately after being used
as herein provided.
   (B)   No commercial vehicle on wheels having steel tires of less than three
(3) inches in width shall hereafter be licensed to haul freight or merchandise
of any kind whatsoever, upon, over, across or along any of the improved streets
within the corporate limits of the City of Boonville, Indiana.
(Ord. 1992, passed 9-19-22)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver or person in charge of any vehicle, in
or upon any of the streets, alleys or highways within the corporate limits of
the City of Boonville, Indiana, to break or drive through, drive between or in
front of the vehicles of, or interfere with or in any manner disturb, any
funeral procession proceeding in or along and over the streets, alleys or
highways of the City of Boonville to any cemetery or burial place located
either within or without the corporate limits of the City of Boonville.
(Ord. 1924, passed 1-8-24)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.04 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CITY STREETS.
   All trucks weighing in excess of thirteen thousand (13,000) pounds gross
weight are prohibited from all City streets; except the following:
   (A)   North 3rd Street, from the intersection of Main and Locust to the
Northern most point;
   (B)   North 4th Street to the City limits;
   (C)   South 2rd Street, and North 5th Street to Division Street;
   (D)   All trucks making deliveries to specified areas in the exercise of
commerce.
(Ord. 2003-6, passed 9-4-03)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 GOLF CARTS PROHIBITED ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   Golf carts are for pleasure and use on golf courses.
   (B)   Golf carts are not subject to registration and licensing in the State
of Indiana.
   (C)   Golf carts cannot be insured for road use in the State of Indiana and
the City of Boonville.
   (D)   The City of Boonville, for the health and safety of its citizens and
users of public roadways, prohibits the use of golf carts on public streets
and/or accepted right-of-ways within the City of Boonville.
   (E)   The penalty for a violation of this section shall be $50 for the
violation, plus any applicable cost, including reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 2004-26, passed 12-22-04)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for a violation of
Chapter 73, traffic schedule IV: no parking zones shall be $25 for the
violation, plus any applicable cost, including reasonable attorney fees. The
registered owner of the vehicle is responsible for any civil penalty, which is
imposed.
   (C)   The penalty for a violation of
Chapter 73, traffic schedule I: commercial and passenger loading and unloading
zones shall be $25 for the violation, plus any applicable cost, including
reasonable attorney fees. The registered owner of the vehicle is responsible
for any civil penalty, which is imposed.
(Am. Ord. 2004-15, passed 8-5-04; Am. Ord. 2011-4, passed 5-5-11)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES
Section
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   Prohibited parking areas
   
71.03   Meters; installation and maintenance
   
71.04   Administration
   
71.05   Unlicensed or damaged vehicles
   
71.06   Off-street parking facilities
   
71.07   Parking lights
   
71.08   Oversized and overweight vehicles
§ 71.01 DEFINITION.
   The word “vehicle,” as used herein, shall mean any device by which any
person or property may be transported upon a highway.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 7-20-99)
§ 71.02 PROHIBITED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to
stand in any of the following places except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a policeman or
traffic control device:
      (1)   In any intersection.
      (2)   In a crosswalk.
      (3)   Within twenty (20) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      (4)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      (6)   No vehicle shall be parked next to a curb, which has been painted
yellow.
      (7)   No vehicle shall be parked in a space designated as handicapped
parking other than vehicles that display a handicapped license plate or
handicapped permit.
      (8)   On a sidewalk.
      (9)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant.
   (B)   Cab stands, bus stands. No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall
be parked in any area designated as a cab stand. No vehicle other than a bus
shall be parked in a place designated as a bus-loading zone.
   (C)   Loading zone. It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to
stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the
loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed three (3) minutes and for the
driver to stand any freight carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than
is necessary to load, unload and deliver materials not to exceed thirty (30)
minutes in any place officially designated as a loading zone and marked as
such.
   (D)   Parking at curb. On all streets except where angle parking is
permitted by ordinance, a Vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there
is adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked within the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and of the right hand curb.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 7-20-99; Am. Ord. 2000-8, passed 6-15-00)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Commercial and passenger loading and unloading zones, see
Parking Schedule I
   No parking zones, see
Parking Schedule IV
§ 71.03 METERS; INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Installation and maintenance of meters. The Mayor and Board of Public
Works and Safety shall provide for installation of meters and the regulation
and operation thereof and shall cause said meters to be maintained. Meters
shall be placed upon the curb next to individual parking places and meters
shall be so constructed as to display a signal showing legal parking upon
deposit therein of the proper coin or coins of the United States as indicated
by instructions on said meter for a period of time not prohibited by ordinance.
The signal shall remain in evidence until expiration of the said parking period
at which time a change of signal or some other mechanical operation shall
indicate expiration of the parking period allowed by the parking meter.
   (B)   Vehicle parking and payment of charges. When any vehicle shall be
parked in a parking meter zone the operation of said vehicle shall park within
the area designated by the curb or street-marking lines as indicated for
parallel or diagonal parking. One or more coins of the United States as
indicated by instructions on the meter shall immediately be deposited for the
period of time allocated for the coin or coins deposited. It shall be unlawful
for any person to fail to park within the designated area or fail or neglect to
deposit the proper coin or coins between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
every Monday through Friday except on those days which have been designated as
legal holidays.
   (C)   Time limitations. The parking space used by any vehicle may then be
used by such vehicle during the legal parking limit provided by the meter. The
parking limit shall be no longer than a three-hour period in the same parking
space. Parking beyond the legal time limit within a meter space between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. every Monday through Friday except on those
days which have been designated as legal holidays shall be considered to be a
violation of this section punishable by the penalties provided hereafter for
overtime parking.
   (D)   Owner in control. It shall be considered that the registered owner of
a vehicle was in control of the vehicle at the time of such parking. It shall
be unlawful for any person to permit any vehicle registered in his name to be
unlawfully parked as set out in this section.
   (E)   Unlawful objects. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any parking meter any slug, device or other substitute for a coin
of the United States.
   (F)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with,
open, willfully damage or destroy any parking meter.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 7-20-99)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking meter zones, see
Parking Schedule III
§ 71.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Traffic Safety Officer. In addition to the powers granted to the
police officers of the City of Boonville, Indiana, for the enforcement of the
parking regulation of the City, the Mayor of the City may appoint, in
cooperation with but not subject to the recommendation of the Chief of Police,
a Traffic Safety Officer to issue parking meter violation tickets in compliance
with this section. Any person so appointed shall have the same powers and
duties as a police officer in the enforcement of parking meter violations of
the City of Boonville short of the power to arrest, a right reserved for sworn
officers.
   (B)   Citation of violations. Any Police Officer or Traffic Safety Officer
issuing a citation to a vehicle parked in violation of the provisions in this
chapter shall securely place the citation on such vehicle in a manner
reasonably calculated to attract the attention of the person in control
thereof. The notice of such violation shall set forth the vehicle license plate
number, the make and color of such vehicle, the parking meter number, if
applicable and the location, date and time of such violation.
   (C)   Parking violation; payment of fine.
      (1)   Any person who receives written notice that a vehicle is parked in
such manner or place or for such a time as to violate the provisions of any of
the sections of this chapter relating to the parking of vehicles shall pay to
the City Clerk-Treasurer as a penalty for such violation the following sum:
         (a)   Overtime parking, if paid within thirty (30) days from time of
the violation as indicated on the notice, five dollars ($5.00).
         (b)   Overtime parking, if not paid within thirty (30) days from time
of the violation as indicated on the notice, ten dollars ($10.00).
         (c)   Handicapped parking violation for the first offense if paid
within thirty (30) days from the violation as indicated on the notice, fifty
dollars ($50.00).
         (d)   Handicapped parking violation if not paid within thirty (30)
days from the time of the violation indicated on the notice, one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
         (e)   Handicapped parking violation following the first offense, one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
         (f)   Any other standing or parking violation, twenty dollars ($20.00)
plus any court costs.
      (2)   The penalty shall be deemed paid as of the time of the postmark on
the envelope if mailed or when actually delivered to City or when picked up
from a fine box.
   (D)   Parking violation procedures. In the event that payment for a parking
violation has not been received within thirty (30) days from the time of such
violation, written notice of such violation and of the failure to pay the
penalty therefore shall be forwarded by regular mail to the address of the
registered owner of such vehicle as shown by the most recent list of license
plate registrations compiled and furnished to the City by the Indiana Bureau of
Motor Vehicles. In the event payment of a parking violation is not received by
the City within ten (10) days from the date of the mailing of the notice the
police department of jurisdiction shall file the information of the violation
to the Clerk of the Warrick Superior Court for the enforcement of this
ordinance with all costs including reasonable attorney fees to be paid by the
violator.
   (E)   Purpose of fees. The fee required to be deposited in said meters is
hereby levied as a city regulation and inspection fee to cover the cost of
providing parking spaces, parking meters and the maintenance of meters, the
cost of regulation and inspection, operation and use of the parking meter
spaces and zones created herein and for the regulation and control of traffic
and for the costs of any parking administration expenses.
   (F)   Parking violations; conflict with other penalty provisions. The
provisions of division (C) above shall not affect the penalty provisions of any
other ordinance.
   (G)   Exemptions. There is expressly exempted from the provisions of this
chapter as it relates to parking meter violations any vehicle displaying a
placard, special registration plate or decal issued by the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles indicating the owner thereof to be a disabled veteran or a physically
handicapped person.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 7-20-99; Am. Ord. 2000-1, passed 1-27-00; Am. Ord. 2001-
16, passed 10-11-01)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.05 UNLICENSED OR DAMAGED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle, as defined by I.C. 9-13-2-196, which does not have issued
to it and on display, a current license plate issued by a State of the United
States, or an agency of government, shall be parked or allowed to set upon any
public right-of-way in the City of Boonville.
   (B)   No vehicle, as defined by I.C. 9-13-2-196, which is damaged so as to
render it non-functional or which does not have issued to it and on display a
current license plate issued by a State of the United States, or an agency of
government, shall be stored or left setting on private property if such vehicle
may be seen by the public from a public right-of-way.
   (C)   Owners of recreation/competition vehicles such as demolition cars,
race cars, mud bogging trucks, and the like, stored on private property and
visible to the public from a public right-of-way must keep a vehicle cover over
the vehicle.
   (D)   The prohibition of division (B) above shall not apply to a business
operating on properly zoned real estate, engaged in the sale of new or used
vehicles so long as those vehicles are not damaged and are capable of being
driven on the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 1990-9, passed 1-15-90; Am. Ord. 2005-10, passed 10-12-05)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned Vehicles, see
Chapter 90
§ 71.06 OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter and remain upon any off-
street parking facility which is posted as hereinafter set forth between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except where the establishment which provides
such parking facilities is then open for the transaction of business.
   (B)   Where any business establishment for which an off-street parking
facility is maintained is open past the hour of 6:00 p.m., it shall be unlawful
for any person to enter and remain upon such facility after such business
establishment has closed its operations for the day, provided, that such
facility is posted as hereinafter set forth and such posting specifies the
hours during which parking is prohibited.
   (C)   When any motor vehicle is left unattended upon any such off-street
parking facility during the hours proscribed by divisions (A) and (B) above, it
shall be deemed a violation of this section and its removal by a towing service
may be authorized by order of any police officer of this City. The cost of such
towing and the storage of such vehicle shall be assessed against the owner
thereof.
   (D)   A posted off-street parking facility is one upon which there is placed
a sign in a conspicuous place stating in letters upon which not less than two
(2) inches in height, the hours during which parking is prohibited, that
violators will be prosecuted under the terms of this section and that
unattended vehicles left on the premises during these hours may be towed away
at the cost of the owner.
(Ord. 1980-12, passed 6-5-80; Am. Ord. 1981-2, passed 1-15-81)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.07 PARKING LIGHTS.
   No lights need be exhibited upon any vehicle on any street of the City of
Boonville from a half-hour after sunset until a half-hour before sunrise if
said vehicle is otherwise parked in accordance with the parking regulations of
the City of Boonville and where there is sufficient lights to reveal any person
or object within a distance of Five Hundred (500) feet on a roadway where said
vehicle is parked.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 2-16-54)
§ 71.08 OVERSIZED AND OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall park any motor vehicle which, in overall dimension, is
more than:
      (1)   Twenty-one (21') feet long;
      (2)   Eight (8') feet wide;
      (3)   Nine (9') feet high;
      (4)   Eleven thousand (11,000) pounds;
      on any street for more than sixty (60) minutes, per day, without advance
written permission of the City Code Enforcement Officer, City Administrator, or
their designee. This provision shall not apply to personal passenger vehicles.
   (B)   No person shall park any commercial, non-motorized, wheeled device,
including, by way of example, and not limitation, trailers (including tractor
and semi), wagons, carts, storage units and wheeled machinery, on any street
for more than sixty (60) minutes, without the advanced written permission of
the City Code Enforcement Officer, the City Administrator, or their designee.
   (C)   The City Code Enforcement Officer, City Administrator, or their
designee are authorized to issue permits outlined above, which shall only be
issued upon a determination that the requested parking will not create a
hazard, present a sight distance hazard, or obstruction of traffic.
   (D)   A violation of this section, upon ticketing or other actual notice of
violation, shall be subject to a $100.00 per day of violation, penalty, for
each day the violation occurs. In addition, the City shall be entitled to
collect costs to enforce the collection of this penalty, including court costs,
post judgment interest, and attorney fees.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 7-3-08)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   Yield intersections
   
III.   Speed limits
   
IV.   Weight restrictions
   
V.   One-way streets
   
VI.   School zones
   
VII.   One-way turning
SCHEDULE I STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   All traffic traveling on the following streets and locations shall stop at
the intersection. The Street Department shall erect signs for the control of
traffic in compliance.
Location Stop Type Ord. No. Passage Date
Location                                        Stop Type Ord. No. Passage Date
Adams Street at its intersection with South     Three-way 1972-13  10-19-72
First Street
Charleton Avenue, north to intersection with              1989-15  6-8-89
Gough Avenue
Division Street at its intersection with South  Four-way  1972-10  9-21-72
Seventh Street
East Walnut Street at its intersection with     Four-way  1974-6   4-4-74
Forrest Avenue
East Chestnut Street at its intersection with   Four-way  1973-4   5-17-73
North Seventh Street
Fifth Street at its intersection with Moore     Four-way  1976-12  7-22-76
Street
Forrest Avenue at its intersection with East    Four-way  1974-6   4-4-74
Walnut Street
Gough Avenue, east to intersection with                   1989-15  6-8-89
Charleton Avenue
Intersection of Sycamore Street and Vine Street Four-way  1994-16  9-8-94
Intersection of Eighth Street/Pelzer Road and   Three-way 1994-11  6-24-94
Maxwell Road
Intersection of Division Street and Eighth      Three-way 1994-11  6-24-94
Street
Intersection of North Seventh Street and Poplar Four-way  1994-11  6-24-94
Street
Intersection of Maple Grove Road and South      Three-way 1991-1   2-14-91
Third Street
Intersection of Third Street and Monroe Street  Four-way  1988-7   3-17-88
Intersection of South Seventh Street and Maple  Four-way  1968-5   4-4-68
Street
Intersection of South Second Street and Monroe  Two-way   1967-2   1-19-67
Street
Intersection of First Street and West Walnut    Two-way   1975-15  10-2-75
Street
Intersection of North Seventh Street and Poplar Four-way  1975-15  10-2-75
Street
Intersection of South Fourth Street and         Four-way  1968-5   4-4-68
Division Street
Intersection of Division Street and South       Four-way  1968-5   4-4-68
Fourth Street
Intersection of Banner Stone Drive and Tomahawk Three-way 1983-15  10-20-83
Drive
Intersection of Tomahawk Drive and Moccasin     Three-way 1983-15  10-20-83
Drive
Intersection of Moccasin Drive and Arrowhead    Three-way 1983-15  10-20-83
Drive
Intersection of Tomahawk Drive and Arrowhead    Three-way 1983-15  10-20-83
Drive
Intersection of Forest Avenue and Parkview      Three-way 1987-5   3-19-87
Drive
Intersection of West Walnut Street and South    Four-way  1986-17  12-23-86
First Street
Intersection of West Walnut Street and Vine     Four-way  1986-17  12-23-86
Street
Intersection of Tower Drive and Maxville Road   Four-way  1986-8   5-15-86
Intersection of East Oak Street and South       Four-way  1965-9   5-6-65
Seventh Street
Intersection of South Second Street and West    Four-way  1971-18  9-16-71
Walnut Street
Intersection of West Walnut Street and South    Four-way  1971-18  9-16-71
Second Street
Intersection of South Eighth Street and         Three-way 1971-21  10-7-71
Division Street
Intersection of Division Street and South       Three-way 1971-21  10-7-71
Eighth Street
Intersection of East Oak Street and South Fifth Four-way  1965-9   5-6-65
Street
Intersection of South Third Street and Moore    Three-way 1966-10  4-7-66
Street
Intersection of Chestnut Street and North Sixth Four-way  1966-20  6-16-66
Street
Intersection of South Seventh Street and East   Four-way  1965-9   5-6-65
Oak Street
Intersection of Maple Street and Seventh Street Four-way  1968-5   4-4-68
Intersection of Vine Street and Cherry Street   Three-way 1969-3   3-6-69
Intersection of Cherry Street and Vine Street   Three-way 1969-3   3-6-69
Intersection of Monroe Street and South First   Two-way   1967-1   1-19-67
Street
Intersection of North Sixth Street and Chestnut Four-way  1966-20  6-16-66
Street
Intersection of Division Street and South Fifth Four-way  1965-4   3-18-65
Street
Intersection of South Fifth Street and East Oak Four-way  1965-9   5-6-65
Street
Intersection of Third Street and Walnut Street  Four-way  1966-10  4-7-66
Intersection of Moore Street and South Third    Three-way 1966-10  4-7-66
Street
Intersection of Walnut Street and Third Street  Four-way  1966-10  4-7-66
Intersection of Moore Street and O’Haver DriveThree-way 2000-23  12-12-00
Intersection of Moore Street and South Sixth    Three-way 1966-7   3-3-66
Street
Intersection of South Fifth Street and Division Four-way  1965-4   3-18-65
Street
Intersection of Flint Street with Gough Avenue  Three-way 2024-6   8-6-24
Lake Street at its intersection with South      Four-way  1975-8   5-1-75
First Street
Moore Street at its intersection with Fifth     Four-way  1976-12  7-22-76
Street
North Seventh Street at its intersection with   Four-way  1973-4   5-17-73
East Chestnut Street
South Seventh Street at its intersection with   Four-way  1972-10  9-21-72
Division Street
South First Street at its intersection with     Three-way 1972-13  10-19-72
Adams Street
South First Street at its intersection with     Four-way  1975-8   5-1-75
Lake Street
South First Street at its intersection with     Four-way  1975-6   4-3-75
West Walnut Street
West end of Sycamore Street and the corner of             2019-6   7-11-19
North Pine Street
West Walnut Street at its intersection with     Four-way  1975-6   4-3-75
South First Street
 
SCHEDULE II YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   All motor vehicles shall yield right-of-way to intersecting traffic on the
following streets.
 
Street        Location                                    Ord. No. Passage Date
              From its intersection with North Fourth
              Street to its eastern terminus; all drivers
Car-Lin Drive traveling in a northeasterly direction on   1982-10  6-3-82
              Christopher Drive, Scott Drive and Parkwood
              Drive shall yield the right-of-way to other
              vehicles and pedestrians
Cemetery Road Approaching in a northerly direction on     1983-15  10-20-83
              Banner Stone Drive and Arrowhead Drive
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle in speeds greater than
listed as follows. Signs shall be posted by the Street Department in
appropriate areas.
Street Location Speed Limit Ord. No. Passage Date
Street                 Location               Speed Limit Ord. No. Passage Date
                      Boonville city parks   10 mph      1992-18  8-31-92
Arrowhead Drive                              15 mph      1983-15  10-20-83
Autumn Drive                                 20 mph      2021-15  12-21-21
Banner Stone Drive                           15 mph      1983-15  10-20-83
Boon Drive             North from North       20 mph      2007-4   7-5-07
                       Street to end
Brackenridge Park      Streets immediately    10 mph      2024-6A  8-6-24
                       surround the park
Brimm Street           East from Park Lane    15 mph      1988-33  8-25-88
                       Avenue to end
Covey Drive                                  20 mph      2021-15  12-21-21
East Lake Street       Between Third Street   25 mph      1994-22  10-27-94
                       and Yankeetown Road
East Columbia Street                         25 mph      1969-10  9-4-69
Eighth Street          From Maxville Road to  20 mph      2024-6A  8-6-24
                       railroad tracks
                       Between Poplar Street
                       and North Street, from
Fourth Street          7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. 20 mph      1989-7   3-16-89
                       and 2:30 p.m. to 3:30
                       p.m.
Fourth Street          Between Main Street    30 mph      1989-7   3-16-89
                       and Poplar Street
Hemenway Place                               25 mph      1969-10  9-4-69
Lake Shore Drive                             10 mph      1969-10; 9-4-69;
                                                          2024-6A  8-6-24
                       Between Tower Drive
                       and Barclay Street,                1986-4;  4-17-86;
Maxville Road          from 7:30 a.m. to 3:30 30 mph      2017-20  11-2-17
                       p.m. Monday through
                       Friday
Millis Avenue          Between Eighth Street  25 mph      1992-22  11-5-92
                       and Highway 62 East
Moccasin Drive                               15 mph      1983-15  10-20-83
                       Between North First
North Street           Street and the west    20 mph      1984-21  11-1-84
                       corporate city limits
North Fourth Street    To the north city      20 mph      1975-15  10-2-75
                       limits
North Street           Between Third Street   20 mph      1990-10  5-24-90
                       and Fourth Street
North Third Street     From Main Street to    35 mph      2021-15  12-21-21
                       Stonehaven Circle
O’Haver Street                             10 mph      2024-6A  8-6-24
Pamela Lane            East from Park Lane    15 mph      1988-33  8-25-88
                       Avenue to end
Parkview Drive                               25 mph      1969-10  9-4-69
Parkview Subdivision   Streets in Parkview    20 mph      2024-6A  8-6-24
                       Subdivision
Ratliff Drive          North from North       20 mph      2007-4   7-5-07
                       Street to end
South Ninth Street                           25 mph      1969-10  9-4-69
South Foresst Avenue                         25 mph      1969-10  9-4-69
South Pine Street                            20 mph      2021-15  12-21-15
Sycamore Street        From Pine Street to    20 mph      2024-6A  8-6-24
                       Vine Street
Tomahawk Drive                               15 mph      1983-15  10-20-83
Water Filtration Plant                       25 mph      1969-10  9-4-69
Access Road
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any truck or motor vehicle to haul or transport any
material in excess of the following weight in the following locations.
Street Location Weight Limit Ord. No. Passage Date
Street              Location                 Weight Limit Ord. No. Passage Date
                    Commencing at its
Division Street     intersection with Third  5.5 tons     1991-13  12-26-91
                    Street, west a distance
                    of 210 feet
                    Commencing at its
                    intersection with
Maple Street        Forrest Avenue,          5.5 tons     1994-6   4-28-94
                    continuing west to its
                    intersection with
                    Seventh Street
                    From its intersection
Mill Street         with North Second        11,000 lbs.  1998-3   4-9-98
                    Street, east to S.R. 61
                    Commencing from New
                    Harmony Road 1.57 miles               2019-7;  7-11-19;
New Harmony Road    to northern city limits  20,000 lbs   2019-11  9-5-19
                    and 1.34 miles from city
                    limits to Highway 62
                    Commencing at the
North First Street  intersection with Olive  11,000 lbs.  1996-9   8-26-96
                    Street, north to the
                    city limits
                    From its intersection
North Street        with North Second        11,000 lbs.  1998-3   4-9-98
                    Street, east to S.R. 61
                    Commencing at the
North Second Street intersection with Main   11,000 lbs.  1998-3   4-9-98
                    Street, north to the
                    city limit
                    Between North First
North Street        Street and the west      10,000 lbs.  1984-21  11-1-84
                    corporate city limits
                    Commencing at the
Olive Street        intersection with North  11,000 lbs.  1996-9   8-26-96
                    First Street, east to
                    S.R. 61
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE V ONE-WAY STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for a motor vehicle to travel in a direction opposite
than listed below.
Street Location Direction Ord. No. Passage Date
Street                 Location                 Direction Ord. No. Passage Date
                       Between Third Street and
Centennial Street      Fourth Street (sometimes           1978-6
                       known as Folsomville
                       Road)
East Columbia Street   At its intersection with East      1969-10  9-4-69
                       Pelzer Road
East Columbia Street   At its intersection with West      1969-10  9-4-69
                       South Ninth Street
                       At its intersection with
                       the intersection of
East Sycamore Street   North Fourth Street and  East      1965-26  1-20-66
                       North Seventh Street,
                       from 5:00 a.m. to 1:00
                       p.m. on Sundays only
Forrest Avenue         At its intersection with North     1969-10  9-4-69
                       Parkview Drive
Hemenway Place         At its intersection with East      1969-10  9-4-69
                       South Ninth Street
Hemenway Place         At its intersection with West      1969-10  9-4-69
                       South Forrest Avenue
Lake Shore Drive       From Fourth Street to    East      1988-20  6-23-88
                       O'Haver Street
Lake Shore Drive       At its intersection with North     1969-10  9-4-69
                       Moore Street
Lake Shore Drive       At its intersection with East      1969-10  9-4-69
                       Parkview Drive
                       From East Sycamore
North Fifth Street     Street to East Gum                 2001-18  1-7-02
                       Street
North Seventh Street   From Poplar Street to    North     2000-20  12-12-00
                       Loge School
Parkview Drive         At its intersection with East      1969-10  9-4-69
                       Pelzer Road
Parkview Drive         At its intersection with West      1969-10  9-4-69
                       Lake Shore Drive
South Ninth Street     At its intersection with North     1969-10  9-4-69
                       Parkview Drive
South Second Street    Between Main Street and  South     1974-1
                       Locust Street
Water Filtration Plant At its intersection with North     1969-10  9-4-69
Access Road            Lake Shore Drive
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VI SCHOOL ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle, other than a school bus or emergency
vehicle, to travel in the following locations.
 
Street        Location            Time Restrictions       Ord. No. Passage Date
              Between Fifth and   7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.,
Gum Street    Sixth streets       during Boonville Junior 1984-19  10-18-84
                                  High School session
Maxville Road Between Tower Drive                         1986-4   4-17-84
              and Barclay Street
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VII ONE-WAY TURNING.
   The following streets shall be allowed right turns only:
 
Street              Location                    Direction Ord. No. Passage Date
                    Into Oakdale Elementary
Millis Avenue       School between the hours of Eastbound 2011-2   3-3-11
                    7:30 to 8:00 a.m. and 2:15
                    to 3:15 p.m.
North Eighth Street Southbound traffic          Westbound 2000-9   6-8-00
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Commercial and passenger loading and unloading zones
   
II.   Limited parking
   
III.   Parking meter zones
   
IV.   No parking zones
   
V.   Reserved parking
SCHEDULE I COMMERCIAL AND PASSENGER LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   The following described locations are to be used as commercial loading and
unloading zones or passenger pick-up or drop-off zones only. It shall be
unlawful for any commercial or passenger motor vehicle to remain parked or
stopped for longer than listed.
Street Location Time Limits Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Location            Time Limits        Ord. No. Date Passed
                    In front of
                    Boonville High
                    School, from a
                    point beginning 20
                    feet north of the   7:30 a.m. to 8:00
First Street        south driveway into a.m. and 2:45 p.m. 1989-3   2-2-89
                    the high school and to 3:15 p.m.
                    ending at a point
                    20 feet south of
                    the north driveway
                    into the school
                    Easterly, beginning
                    at a point 161.6
                    feet north of the
Fourth Street       curb on the north   15 minutes         1996-8   8-26-96
                    side of Main
                    Street, then south
                    a distance of 89
                    feet
                    Beginning at a
                    point 73 feet from
                    the intersection of
                    Locust and Third
Locust Street       Street for a                           2003-1   4-3-03
                    distance of 73 feet
                    on the southwest
                    corner of Locust
                    Street
                    Beginning at a
                    point 40 feet from
                    the intersection of
                    Main and Third
Main Street         Street for a                           2003-1   4-3-03
                    distance of 40 feet
                    on the southeast
                    corner of Main
                    Street
                    Westerly,
                    commencing 14 feet
                    north of the north
                    curb line of Main
North Second Street Street, running                        1964-7   6-18-64
                    north 58 feet;
                    designated as a
                    taxicab and bus
                    stand
                    Beginning at a
                    point 40 feet from
                    the intersection of
                    Sycamore Street and
North Third Street  North Third Street  One hour           2007-5   7-5-07
                    for a distance of
                    40 feet north on
                    the northeast
                    corner of North
                    Third Street
                    Beginning at a
                    point 20 feet south
                    of the intersection
South Fourth Street of Locust Street    8:00 a.m. to 4:00  1989-21  10-26-89
                    and South Fourth    p.m.
                    Street, for a
                    distance of 65 feet
                    on the west side
                    Beginning at the no
                    parking zone on
                    Third Street north
                    of Locust Street
Third Street        for a distance of                      2011-4   5-5-11
                    twenty-one (21)
                    feet to the north
                    on the east side of
                    South Third Street
                    Beginning at a
                    point 15 feet south
                    of the intersection
                    of the south curb
                    of Main Street with
West Main Street    the west curb of    5 minutes          1982-28  11-4-82
                    Second Street,
                    extending west
                    along the south
                    curb of Main Street
                    a distance of 35
                    feet
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II LIMITED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle or other vehicle to be parked
longer than the times listed in any of the following locations.
 
Locations    Time Restrictions
On the
public
square, for
one block
east and
west thereof
on Locust
Street; for
one block
east and
west thereof Two-hour parking only from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Monday through
on Main      Friday; 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on Saturday; no restrictions on Sunday
Street; for  or holidays
one block
north and
south
thereof on
Second
Street; and
for one
block north
and south
thereof on
Third Street
On the east
side of
North Fourth
Street
between the
intersecting 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on Sunday. Violators will be towed at owner’s
streets of   expense
Poplar
Street to
the north
and Chestnut
Street to
the south
 
(Ord. 1947-7, passed 7-1-47; Am. Ord. 2007-6, passed 7-5-07) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III PARKING METER ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle or to permit any vehicle to remain
parked in any parking zone for a period longer than designated on the meter on
Friday between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:30 p.m. and on all other days
except Sunday and holidays between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. or to
park a vehicle in any such zone without paying the fee as set forth by Common
Council or to remain parked longer in any zone for which the fee was paid. No
person shall park any vehicle in any individual parking place in any parking
zone for a period longer than two hours in any three-hour period on any day.
 
Street        Location                                  Side(s)
Locust Street Between First Street and Fourth Street    Both
Main Street   Between First Street and Fourth Street    Both
Second Street Between Walnut Street and Sycamore Street Both
Third Street  Between Walnut Street and Sycamore Street Both
 
(Ord. 1960-8, passed 9-20-60)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV NO PARKING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle in any of the following
locations.
Street Location Direction(s) Ord. No. Passage Date
Street               Location               Direction(s)  Ord. No. Passage Date
                     Alley paralleling and
                     between Cyprus Street
                     and Pine Street,
                    starting at West                     1992-30  12-30-92
                     Walnut Street and
                     proceeding south for
                     150 feet
                     Either side running
                     1,112 feet from north
                     end to intersection
American Way Road    with State Road 62,    North         2022-08  6-7-22
                     along the eastern edge
                     of the Wal-mart
                     property
Ann Street           From North Street to   East          2002-11  9-3-02
                     Short Street
                     Between Third Street
Centennial Avenue    and Fourth Street;                   1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     Between Third Street
Division Street      and Seventh Street;                  1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     From the intersection
                     of North Third Street
                     and East North Street
East North Street    easterly to the        South         2012-8   5-3-12
                     intersection of
                     Williams Street and
                     East North Street
                     From Moore Street to
Eighth Street        Division Street; from  West          1996-13  11-25-96
                     the hours of 7:00 a.m.
                     to 4:00 p.m.
                     Between Main Street
Fifth Street         and Oak Street; from                 1962-3   8-21-62
                     2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
                     each Monday
                     Between Main Street
Fifth Street         and Gum Street; from                 1962-3   8-21-62
                     2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
                     each Monday
Fifth Street         Between Gum Street and East          1993-27  12-18-93
                     Sycamore Street
                     In front of Boonville
                     High School, from a
                     point beginning 20
                     feet north of the
                     south driveway into
First Street         the high school and                  1989-14  5-25-89
                     ending at a point 20
                     feet south of the
                     north driveway into
                     the school; from 7:00
                     a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                     From its intersection
                     with West Locust
First Street         Street to its          Either        1982-24  10-7-82
                     intersection with Main
                     Street
                     Between Main Street
First Street         and Cherry Street;                   1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     Between Main Street
First Street         and North Street; from               1962-3   8-21-62
                     2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
                     each Monday
                     Between Walnut Street
First Avenue         and Cherry Street;                   1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     From its intersection
                     with West Locust
                     Street to its
First Street         intersection with Mill West          1981-25  10-8-81
                     Street, extended on
                     Monday through Friday,
                     between the hours of
                     7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
                     From its intersection
                     with West Locust
First Street         Street to its          West          1981-25  10-8-81
                     intersection with West
                     Sycamore Street
                     From its intersection
Flint Street         with Walnut Street to  Either        1981-15  7-1-81
                     its intersection with
                     Mulberry Street
                     Between Main Street
Fourth Street        and Oak Street; from                 1962-3   8-21-62
                     2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
                     each Monday
                     Between Monroe Street
                     and the north line of
Fourth Street        Maple Grove Cemetery;                1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     From the intersection
Fourth Street        of Fourth Street and                 1969-13  11-20-69
                     Division Street
                     Beginning at its
                     southern intersection
Fourth Street        with Poplar Street and West          1989-7   3-16-89
                     continuing a distance
                     of 185 feet
                     Beginning at a point
                     40 feet north of the
                     intersection with
Fourth Street        Liberty Street,        West          1969-11  10-2-69
                     continuing south to a
                     point 50 feet south of
                     the intersection with
                     Poplar Street
                     Beginning at a point
                     50 feet south of the
                     intersection with
Fourth Street        Poplar Street,         East          1969-11  10-2-69
                     continuing north to a
                     point 50 feet north of
                     the intersection with
                     Liberty Street
                     Between Main Street
Fourth Street        and Liberty Street;                  1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     From the intersection
Gough Avenue         with North Seventh     Either        1985-7   4-4-85
                     Street, extending
                     eastwardly 46 feet
                     Between Seventh Street
Gough Avenue         and Eighth Street;                   1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     From South Third
Lake Street          Street to Yankeetown                 1992-19  8-24-92
                     Road
                     Between the western
                     corporate limits of
Locust Street        the city and East Main               1962-3   8-21-62
                     Street; from 2:00 a.m.
                     to 6:00 a.m. each
                     Monday
                     From Cypress Street
                     east to the Southern
Main Street          Railway right-of-way;                1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
Monroe Street        From Third Street to a North         1974-5   3-7-74
                     point 150 feet east
Moore Street         From Third Street to   South         1988-20  - -88
                     O'Haver Street
                     From its intersection
                     with North Eighth
Mulberry Street      Street to its          Either        1981-15  7-1-81
                     intersection with
                     Flint Street
                     Between the
North Fourth Street  intersecting streets   East          2001-5   5-10-01
                     of Main and Sycamore
                     From a southern
North Fourth Street  boundary of Gum Street Either        2005-2   3-3-05
                     to a northern boundary
                     of Poplar Street
                     From a southern
North Fourth Street  boundary of Sycamore                 2011-1   2-9-11
                     Street to a northern
                     boundary of Gum Street
North Third Street   From Main Street to    Either        2002-2   6-13-02
                     Sycamore Street
                     Between Main Street
North Seventh Street and Gum Street, from                 1965-26  1-20-66
                     5:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
                     on Sundays only
                     28 feet in the
                     northerly direction
                     from the intersection
North Second Street  with the alley between East          1994-24  1-12-95
                     Main Street and
                     Sycamore Street; in
                     front of the former
                     Skelton's Garage
                     Beginning at the
North Seventh Street intersection with East East          1974-5   3-7-74
                     Main Street and
                     running north 150 feet
North Seventh Street From Poplar Street to  North         2000-20  12-12-00
                     Loge School
                     248 feet south from
North Third Street   the south corner of    East          1998-10  7-29-98
                     Sycamore
                     For 35 feet in the
                     northerly direction
                     from the intersection
North Fourth Street  with Gum Street and    East          1994-9   7-9-94
                     100 feet in a
                     southerly direction
                     from the intersection
                     with Gum
                     68 feet in the
North First Street   southerly direction    East          1993-29  12-9-93
                     from the corner of
                     Sycamore Street
North First Street   Between Sycamore and   West          2000-22  12-12-00
                     Mill Streets
North First Street   Between Main and       East          2000-22  12-12-00
                     Sycamore Streets
                     From its intersection
North Seventh Street with Sycamore Street,  West          1985-7   4-4-85
                     extending north 80
                     feet
                     From its intersection
North Eighth Street  with Mulberry Street   East          1984-7   5-3-84
                     to its intersection
                     with Water Street
                     248 feet south of the
North Third Street   south corner of        East          1998-21  11-23-98
                     Sycamore Street
North Third Street   From Main Street to    West          1998-21  11-23-98
                     Sycamore Street
                     From its intersection
North Seventh Street with Gough Avenue,     East          1985-7   4-4-85
                     extending south a
                     distance of 136 feet
                     From Sycamore Street
                     north to the
North Vine Street    southernmost property  East and West 2007-11  8-2-07
                     boundary of Warrick
                     County School
                     Corporation
                     Between Third Street
Oak Street           and Eighth Street;                   1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     From South Eighth
Oak Street           Street west to South   North         2004-15  8-5-04
                     Second Street
                     From its intersection
Pamela Lane          with Park Lane to its  Either        1985-20  11-14-85
                     eastern terminus
Sycamore Street      Between 3rd and 4th    North         2000-24  12-12-00
                     Streets
                     Between Main Street
                     and the Southern
Second Street        Railway right-of-way;                1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     Between Main Street
Second Street        and Mill Street; from                1962-3   8-21-62
                     2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
                     each Monday
                     Between Locust Street
Seventh Street       and Division Street;                 1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     Between Main Street
Sixth Street         and Sycamore Street;                 1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     54 feet in the
                     northerly direction
South Third Street   from the corner of     West          1993-28  12-9-93
                     South Third Street and
                     Walnut Street
                     Between the
South Third Street   intersecting streets   West          2000-14  8-10-00
                     of Oak and Moore
                     From the intersection
South Third Street   of East Elm to Oak     East          2009-3   2-5-09
                     Street
                     Between the
South Fifth Street   intersecting streets   East or West  2000-15  8-10-00
                     of East Locust and
                     East Walnut
                     From the intersection
South Fifth Street   of South Fifth Street  West          2000-15  8-10-00
                     and East Locust Street
                     north 170 feet
                     Between the
South Fifth Street   intersecting streets   East          2000-15  8-10-00
                     of East Main and East
                     Locust
                     Non-commercial
                     vehicles shall be
                     allowed to park on the
                     east side of South
South Fifth Street   Fifth Street (between                2006-7   8-3-06
                     East Walnut Street and
                     Locust Street from the
                     alley to a point south
                     100 feet)
                     From the Southwest
                     corner of the
South Fifth Street   intersection of Walnut West          2015-2   1-8-15
                     Street and Fifth
                     Street and running 90
                     feet south
                     To the intersection
                     with East Locust
                     Street to the
                     intersection with East
                     Division Street;
                     provided, however,
                     parking shall be
                     permitted on the west
                     side of South Fourth
South Fourth Street  Street from the        Either        1980-21  11-6-80
                     intersection with East
                     Walnut Street to the
                     intersection with East
                     Elm Street to the
                     intersection with East
                     Locust Street to the
                     intersection with East
                     Walnut Street, from
                     the hours of 9:00 a.m.
                     to 12:00 noon
                     Beginning at a point
                     20 feet south of the
                     intersection of Locust
South Fourth Street  and South Fourth       South         1999-13  11-4-99
                     Street; police
                     vehicles only
                     permitted for a
                     distance of 62 feet
                     Between Walnut Street
South Fourth Street  and the south side of  East          1976-25  10-28-76
                     Five Station
                     30 feet in the
                     northerly direction
South Second Street  126 feet from the      West          1994-23  1-12-95
                     intersection with West
                     Walnut
                     From the intersection
                     of Locust and South
South Second Street  Second Streets 100     East          2009-2   1-8-09
                     feet in a southerly
                     direction
                     Beginning at a point
                     20 feet south of the
                     intersection of Locust
South Fourth Street  and South Fourth       West          1999-13  11-4-99
                     Street; police
                     vehicles only
                     permitted for a
                     distance of 62 feet
                     From the intersection
South Fourth Street  with Lake Shore Drive  East and West 2006-6   8-3-06
                     to a point 210 feet
                     south
                     35 feet commencing at
South Third Street   a point 82 feet south  East          1991-4   4-11-91
                     of Locust Street
Sycamore Street      Between Vine Street    South         1991-7   8-15-91
                     and Pine Street
                     Between First Street
Sycamore Street      and Seventh Street;                  1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     Extended on the city's
Sycamore Street      real estate from Pine  North         1991-7   8-15-91
                     Street west to a
                     distance of 330 feet
                     Between the
Sycamore Street      intersections with     South         1989-26  1-4-90
                     Fourth Street and
                     Seventh Street
                     Between Main Street
Third Street         and Lake Shore Drive;                1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     Between Main Street
                     and the northern
Third Street         corporate city limits;               1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     Between West Main and
                     West Locust Streets
Vine Street          north of alley for a   West          2000-21  3-8-01
                     distance of sixty-
                     seven (67) feet
                     Between West Main and
                     West Locust Streets
Vine Street          south of the alley for East          2000-21  3-8-01
                     a distance of one
                     hundred forty two (42)
                     feet
                     Between Cypress Street
Walnut Street        and Fourth Street;                   1962-3   8-21-62
                     from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
                     a.m. each Monday
                     Beginning at a point
                     165 feet west of the
Walnut Street        intersection with      South         1990-20  12-6-90
                     Vine; a distance of 25
                     feet
Washington Avenue    From Yankeetown Road   West          2004-6   3-4-04
                     to Maple Grove Road
West Main Street     From its intersection  South         1982-28  11-4-82
                     with Second Street
                     From its intersection
West Walnut Street   with First Street to   South         1985-15  8-22-85
                     its intersection with
                     Second Street
                     Between South First
West Walnut Street   Street and Cypress     North         1967-4   1-19-67
                     Street
West Sycamore Street Between North First    South         1977-14  9-15-77
                     Street and Elzer Lane
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE V RESERVED PARKING.
 
Officials/     Street             Location            Ord. No. Passage Date
Personnel
                                  From the
                                  intersection at
City personnel West Locust Street Second Street to    2004-8   4-1-04
                                  the drive-thru exit
                                  of City Hall
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: OFF ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Policies
   
74.03   Restricted streets
   
74.04   Exceptions
   
74.05   Registration
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   CITY STREET. Any roadway maintained by the City of Boonville, Indiana, to
include streets, alleys, and some unimproved rights-of-way within the corporate
limits of the city. This does not include any U.S. Highway or State route that
may go by a local street name.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. A recreational off-road vehicle owner's ability to
pay for damages or injuries that may result from a crash.
   OPERATOR. The person in physical control of the vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. As defined by I.C. 14-8-2-233.5 which
provides as follows:
      (1)   For purposes of I.C. 14-8-2-185, means a motorized, off-highway
vehicle that:
         (a)   Is sixty-five (65) inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a dry weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or less;
         (c)   Is designed for travel on at least four (4) nonhighway or off-
highway tires; and
         (d)   Is designed for recreational use by one (1) or more individuals.
      (2)   In addition to the above statutory definition for purposes of this
ordinance such vehicles must:
         (a)   Have a nonstraddle seat or saddle; and
         (b)   Have a steering wheel for steering control.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 5-11-21)
§ 74.02 POLICIES.
   (A)   Recreational off-road vehicles may be operated on city streets by
persons who have a valid motor vehicle operator's license.
   (B)   A person operating a recreational off-road vehicle has all the rights
and duties concerning traffic regulations that are applicable to a person who
drives a motor vehicle.
   (C)   A person operating a recreational off-road vehicle must be able to
provide proof of financial responsibility.
   (D)   A person operating a recreational off-road vehicle must be in
compliance with all Indiana statutes concerning such, including but not limited
to I.C. 14-16-1 et seq. (off road vehicles).
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 5-11-21)
§ 74.03 RESTRICTED STREETS.
   The operator of a recreational off-road vehicle may not operate such vehicle
upon or within the following streets or areas:
   (A)   State Routes 62 and 61, except to cross them at an angle of 90
degrees, or at times allowed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   Any street or highway posted by order of the city as not to be used by
recreational off- road vehicles.
   (C)   On any private property without permission of the owner.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 5-11-21)
§ 74.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit:
   (A)   Any police officer, firefighter, or other emergency worker from-
operating a recreational off-road vehicle in their official capacity.
   (B)   Persons that are operating a recreational off-road vehicle solely on
private property.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 5-11-21)
§ 74.05 REGISTRATION.
   Registration shall be required as outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 5-11-21)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined pursuant to the
following schedule:
      (1)   First offense in a calendar year: $50;
      (2)   Second offense in a calendar year: $ 100; and
      (3)   Third offense in a calendar year: $ 150.
   (B)   Each day that a violation occurs constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 8-5-14)
CHAPTER 75: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
75.01   Prohibited operation
   
75.02   Registration
   
75.03   Operators
   
75.04   Financial responsibility
   
75.05   Equipment
   
75.06   Permissible streets
   
75.07   Restrictions
   
75.08   Number and seating of occupants
   
75.09   Traffic rules
   
75.10   Responsibility of owner or lessee
   
75.11   Compliance
   
75.12   Enforcement
 
   
75.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Use of golf carts, see §
70.05
§ 75.01 PROHIBITED OPERATION.
    Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, the operation of vehicles
originally designed for operation on a golf course, whether powered by battery,
fuel engine or otherwise, and commonly referred to as "golf carts", on the city
streets is and shall be prohibited, except insofar as such golf carts are
registered, equipped and operated in full compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 9-4-14; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.02 REGISTRATION.
    The owner or lessee of a golf cart desiring to operate it on the streets in
the City of Boonville, must register the golf cart annually with the City of
Boonville on or before May 1, after May 1, monthly prorated charges will occur
and an annual registration fee of $50.00 must be paid to the Boonville Police
Department and said fee, unless otherwise dedicated, shall be deposited into
the Police Continuing Education Fund. After inspection by the Boonville Police
Department verifying the golf cart is insured for a period of one (1) year and
equipped as required by §§
75.04 and
75.05, respectively, of this chapter, shall issue a Certificate of Registration
("permit") and numerical tags which shall be prominently attached to and
displayed on the front and rear of the golf cart. The permit must be in the
golf cart or in the possession of the person operating the golf cart at all
times such golf cart is in operation on the streets in the city.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 9-4-14; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.03 OPERATORS.
    Only persons holding a valid motor vehicle driver's license may operate a
golf cart within the city.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 9-4-14; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.04 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
    A golf cart operating on the streets in the city shall be insured by
liability coverage insurance coverage in an amount not less than that provided
by Indiana statutes for motor vehicles operated on public thoroughfares in the
State of Indiana. Proof of such liability coverage, for a minimum of one (1)
year at a time, must be available on the golf cart or carried by the operator
at all times the golf cart is operated on the streets in the city.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 9-4-14; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.05 EQUIPMENT.
    A golf cart operating on the street in the city shall be equipped with two
operating headlights (one on each side of the front of the golf cart), tail
lights (one on each side of the rear of the golf cart), visible from a distance
of 500 feet, brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold
the golf cart, brake lights, a rear view mirror, and a slow moving vehicle
placard shall be prominently displayed on the rear of the golf cart.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 9-4-14; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.06 PERMISSIBLE STREETS.
    Golf carts may be operated on streets within the city, at speeds consistent
with posted speed limits, not to exceed thirty (30) miles per hour where
appropriate.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 9-4-14; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.07 RESTRICTIONS.
    Golf carts may only cross State Highway 61 and 62 for the sole purpose of a
ninety (90) degree crossing to a City street. Otherwise, said operation of golf
carts on State Highway 61 and 62 shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 9-4-14; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.08 NUMBER AND SEATING OF OCCUPANTS.
    Occupants of a golf cart in operation on the City streets or thoroughfares
shall be limited to the number of persons for whom factory seating is installed
on the cart. The number of occupants of the golf cart, including the operator,
shall not exceed two (2) people per seat. Occupants of the golf cart, including
the operator, shall be seated in the cart and no part of the body of the
operator or an occupant shall extend outside the perimeter of the golf cart
while in operation.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 9-4-14; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.09 TRAFFIC RULES.
    All golf carts and the operation thereof shall be subject to all traffic
rules, in addition to the requirements set forth herein, as required by Indiana
statutes governing the operation of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 9-4-14; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.10 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR LESSEE.
    The owner or lessee of a golf cart who applies for a permit to operate the
golf cart within the city as herein above provided in this chapter shall agree
to be responsible, jointly and severally, with any person who is permitted to
operate the golf cart, for any injury or damages the operator causes by reason
on the operation of the golf cart if such operator is liable for such damages.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 9-4-14; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.11 COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or lessee of the golf cart to
comply with the provisions of §§
75.01,
75.02,
75.03,
75.04, and
75.09 of this chapter. The failure to comply with those requirements of §§
75.01,
75.02,
75.03,
75.04, and
75.09 of this chapter shall constitute a violation of this chapter by the owner
or lessee of the golf cart. It shall be the responsibility of the operator of
the golf cart to comply with the provisions of §§
75.04,
75.05,
75.06,
75.07 and
75.08 of this chapter (including specifically, responsibility for the actions
of all occupants) as set forth in §
75.07. The failure to comply with the requirements set forth in §§
75.04,
75.05,
75.06,
75.07 and
75.08 of this chapter shall constitute a violation of the chapter by the
operator.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   All law enforcement officers in the City of Boonville shall have the power
and it shall be their duty to enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise prevented by state statues regarding the enforcement of state laws.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to a penalty of $125.00 for the first violation in any twelve (12)
month period for each violation.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter a second time in
any twelve (12) month period shall be subject to a penalty of $250.00 for each
violation.
   (C)   In addition, the permit as herein above provided may be subject to
suspension or revocation. Provided however, in the event that two or more
offenses constituting violations of this chapter occur within one (1) year, the
operator's permit of the golf cart shall be revoked and may not be reissued for
a period of one (1) year.
   (D)   If the person found responsible for violation of this chapter is a
minor, the custodial parent or parents, or the guardian(s) of the minor, shall
be responsible for the actions of such minor and shall be liable for payment of
the fine or fines imposed hereunder.
   (E)   Additionally, a court may order compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (F)   All fines and penalties shall be payable to the city. The Clerk-
Treasurer of the City of Boonville is hereby authorized to accept the payment
of monetary penalties into the general fund of the City. The Boonville Police
Department Continuing Education Fund shall receive all payment of penalties
under this chapter for which the violator desires to waive trial and admit the
violation.
   (G)   All cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive trial and
admit the violation or default in appearance before the City of Boonville
Clerk-Treasurer shall be referred to the City Attorney for filing with the
appropriate Court in Warrick County, Indiana.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 9-4-14; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-2-18)

TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
   
91.   FAIR HOUSING
   
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
   
95.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Adoption of state regulations
   
90.03   Responsibility of owner
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation, see
Chapter 94
   Unlicensed or damaged vehicles, see §
71.05
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions of the terms used in this chapter shall be same as the
terms are defined in I.C. 9-22-1 and I.C. 9-13-2 and as those terms may be
amended.
   (B)   In addition to the definitions provided above, the following words
shall have the following meanings:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. In addition to the definitions provided above for
purposes of this chapter, ABANDONED VEHICLE means:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally.
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days.
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
continue a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way.
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner, or person in control of that property, for more than 48 hours.
      (5)   Vehicle parts and/or a vehicle from which there has been removed
the engine transmission, or differential or that is otherwise partially
dismantled or inoperable and left on public property.
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
this chapter, if the vehicle once impounded is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or his agent within 15 days of its removal.
      (7)   Vehicle parts and/or a vehicle that is mechanically inoperable and
is left on private property continuously in a location visible from public
property for more than 30 days. Vehicle parts and/or a vehicle that is covered
by a tarpaulin, canvas, plastic, etc., shall still be visible pursuant to this
chapter unless said covering is custom made to cover the vehicle.
   AUTHORIZED TOWING SERVICE. A person who has been authorized by the Board of
Works to move, remove, store or impound vehicles and parts pursuant to this
chapter.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The Board of Works of the City of Boonville.
(Ord. 1995-8, passed 6-8-95)
§ 90.02 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the removal and
disposal of abandoned vehicles. The City of Boonville hereby in all ways adopts
the powers and procedures for the removal, storage, disposal and impoundment of
vehicles and parts as set forth in I.C. 9-22-1 and as those provisions may
hereafter be amended.
   (B)   The City of Boonville hereby finds that abandoned vehicles and parts
are a public nuisance and a safety and health hazard.
(Ord. 1995-8, passed 6-8-95)
§ 90.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle or parts is responsible for the
abandonment and is liable, to the extent of the market value of the vehicle,
for all costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or
parts.
(Ord. 1995-8, passed 6-8-95)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practice
   
91.04   Discrimination in sales or rentals
   
91.05   Discrimination in real estate transactions
   
91.06   Discrimination in brokerage services
   
91.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
91.08   Prevention of intimidation
   
91.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
91.10   Exemptions
   
91.11   Administration and enforcement
§ 91.01 POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the City of Boonville to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 1-27-94; Am. Ord. 2014-5, passed 7-3-14)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4, et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
91.04 through 91.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one
(1) or more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for
the construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one (1) or more families. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of eighteen
(18) years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of
eighteen (18) years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, as defined in I.C. 22-9.5-2-9,with the
status of such family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS of this section.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (e)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and
         (f)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one (1) or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant. (I.C.
22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 1-27-94; Am. Ord. 2012-15, passed 9-6-12; Am. Ord. 2014-5,
passed 7-3-14)
Editor’s note:
   This section makes reference to I.C. 22-9.5-2-10. This statute was repealed
in 2007.
§ 91.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
91.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
91.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
91.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any twenty-four (24) month
period. The private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have
owned or reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family
houses at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house
shall be exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold
or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
91.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two (2) or more transactions involving the
sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by five (5) or more families.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 1-27-94; Am. Ord. 2014-5, passed 7-3-14)
§ 91.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SALES OR RENTALS.
   As made applicable by §
91.03 and except as exempted by §
91.03(B) and §
91.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSIA117.1") suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(3)(c)(3.).
   (J)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 1-27-94; Am. Ord. 2014-5, passed 7-3-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 DISCRIMINATION IN REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 1-27-94; Am. Ord. 2014-5, passed 7-3-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 DISCRIMINATION IN BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 1-27-94; Am. Ord. 2014-5, passed 7-3-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
91.03 through
91.06.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 1-27-94; Am. Ord. 2014-5, passed 7-3-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, coior,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in subsection (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten (10) years, or both; and if death results shall
be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 1-27-94; Am. Ord. 2014-5, passed 7-3-14)
§ 91.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of
"family" is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 7-3-14)
§ 91.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, 'housing for
older persons' means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 1-27-94; Am. Ord. 2014-5, passed 7-3-14)
§ 91.11 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
City of Boonville, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the city, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Official of the Town of Americana, Indiana, shall refer all said
complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section
to said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate
relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the City of Boonville,
Indiana shall administer their departments, programs and activities relating to
housing and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes
of this chapter and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the
Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the City of Boonville, Indiana, or the
Chief Elected Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 1-27-94; Am. Ord. 2014-5, passed 7-3-14)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   Occupation of public rights-of-way
   
92.02   Sidewalk rehabilitation cost sharing program
   
92.03   Snow and ice removal on sidewalks and curb ramps in public rights-of-
way
§ 92.01 OCCUPATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   This section applies to all activities and work performed by any
person, partnership, corporation or other entity, including departments,
divisions, agencies or boards, which are hereinafter referred to as
"registrant", in, on, under and over public rights-of-way under the
jurisdiction of the city. Registrants desiring to work in, on, under or over
the public right-of-way shall obtain all applicable permits as required by the
city. In performing such work, the registrant shall be bound by the standards,
regulations, procedures, and guidelines set forth by this section and any and
all federal, state, and local regulations.
   (B)   The Board of Works shall be responsible for controlling all activities
and work performed by Registrants and for enforcing compliance with the
provisions of regulations adopted by the Board of Works.
   (C)   Facilities located in public right-of-way prior to implementation of
this section shall file a registration statement to the Board of Works. The
registration statement of each utility, entity, or person having any facility
within the public rights-of-way shall contain the following:
      (1)   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including any
affiliates who own or operate any facilities in the public rights-of-way.
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the officer, agent, or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration statement.
      (3)   A general description of services that the registrant provides or
intends to provide or offer to entities or persons within the city through the
utilization of facilities in the public right-of-way.
      (4)   Such other information as the Board of Works may reasonably
require.
   (D)   The Board of Works shall adopt regulations which apply only to work
performed in, on, under and/or over public rights-of-way and to the permits,
procedures, requirements, standards and fees which are associated with such
work. Those regulations may include, but are not limited to, regulations
establishing the following:
      (1)   Standards for traffic controls for construction and maintenance
operations or activities in, on, under and over the public rights-of-way, which
standards shall be designed to protect members of the public using such public
rights-of-way and to be consistent, to the extent practicable, with the
"Indiana Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices," the "Indiana Department of
Transportation Standard Specifications, 1995 edition," and all other state and
federal statutes, recognizing, however, that traffic controls for projects
within public rights-of-way subject to the jurisdiction of the department may
be less stringent than the traffic controls required in connection with work on
state or federal highways where traffic will be traveling at much greater
speeds;
      (2)   Restrictions with respect to when and how work should be performed
in public rights-of-way in certain geographical areas, including but not
limited to the Downtown Square area, schools, hospitals and health care
facilities, and emergency services;
      (3)   Time periods when work in, under, on or over public rights-of-way
should, except in cases of emergencies, be prohibited or limited;
      (4)   Minimum standards for compaction or deflection testing or both;
      (5)   Bonding or insurance requirements;
      (6)   Enforcement procedures;
      (7)   Standards for right-of-way excavations;
      (8)   Standards for restoration of the public right-of-way;
      (9)   Inspection and testing procedures;
      (10)   Applicability of standards adopted by the Board;
      (11)   Variance procedure;
      (12)   Appeal procedure;
      (13)   Form and content of the right-of-way excavation permit;
      (14)   Kinds and categories of permits;
      (15)   Permit fees;
      (16)   Permit issuance procedures;
      (17)   Indemnification provisions;
      (18)   Emergency permit notification procedures; and
      (19)   Permit verification procedures.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the registrant to perform any work,
including, but not limited to, cutting, drilling, digging or excavating in, on,
over or under a public right-of-way without first having obtained a permit from
the Board of Works. A violation of this section is subject to the enforcement
procedures and penalties; provided, however, the fine imposed for such
violation shall not be less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), and each day
that an offense continues shall constitute a separate violation. Any fines
collected under this section to be deposited into an account for the use and
benefit of the Board of Works.
      (2)   In the event an emergency arises that affects the health and safety
of the public or requires the restoration of a utility service and such an
event occurs at a time other than normal business hours of the Board of Works,
work may be performed in, on, over or under the public right-of-way without
first obtaining a permit. If such event were to occur, the registrant
performing such work must file for a permit from the Board of Works on the
first business day following the commencement or performance of the work.
   (F)   All work including, but not limited to, the restoration of pavement,
sidewalks or grass areas, shall be done by the registrant at their expense,
unless the city shall elect to do the work and change the cost thereof to the
utility, entity, or person. Such work shall be subject to the supervision and
approval of the Board of Works.
(Ord. 2020-5, passed 7-30-20)
§ 92.02 SIDEWALK REHABILITATION COST SHARING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The City of Boonville Sidewalk Rehabilitation and Repair Cost Sharing
Program (the "Program") is hereby established in the city.
   (B)   A landowner within the city owning property over or through which a
sidewalk runs may apply to be part of the program ("applicant"). Applications
will be prioritized by the city according to need and available funding.
Applicant must submit the city's sidewalk rehabilitation and repair cost
sharing program application form to City Hall to initiate the program.
   (C)   In order to be eligible, the applicant must covenant and agree to hold
harmless the city, and any representative, employee, and agent of the city from
any cost and or liability thereof resulting from said work.
   (D)   The City Engineer shall develop standard drawings for sidewalks. Any
work completed pursuant to the program shall be completed in accordance with
the city's standard drawings.
   (E)   Once an applicant is approved by the city for the program, the
applicant must obtain three (3) written quotes for the sidewalk rehabilitation
and/or repair work ("work"). The quotes for the work must be obtained from a
list of contractors preapproved by the city. Any contractor can request to be
preapproved by the city so long as said contractor is qualified, adequately
insured, and maintains a performance bond with the city for the cost of
completion of any work. Once three (3) written quotes are obtained, a summary
of quotes should be provided on the application form for final approval. The
chosen contractor shall provide the city with a certificate of insurance which
shall include liability coverage in the amount of $500,000. Contractor must
supply the Clerk-Treasurer with a current IRS Form W-9.
   (F)   The applicant shall provide the city with a copy of each quote
received for the work. If the specific quote and work is approved by the city,
the applicant may then proceed with the work by a preapproved contractor. The
applicant shall be responsible for the work. Contractor and owner are
responsible for cleanup of all construction work including, but not limited to,
forms, spilled material, and other debris generated by the project. Upon
completion of the work, the city will pay either the applicant or the
contractor for one-half of the cost of the work, not to exceed one-half of the
city-approved low quote.
   (G)   The city may, in its discretion, determine whether any particular
sidewalk is in need of repair or rehabilitation. In the event that a landowner
applies for the program, but the city does not agree that the sidewalk is in
need of repair or rehabilitation, then the city may determine that said
landowner is not eligible for the program.
   (H)   Nothing in this section or the program shall obligate the city to
repair or rehabilitate any sidewalks. Further, nothing in this section or the
program shall make the city liable or otherwise responsible for any sidewalk,
any of the work, any continuing maintenance, or any other costs.
   (I)   If the applicant defaults in its obligation to pay the contractor, the
city shall not be liable for paying the contractor the 50% of contractor's bill
owed by the applicant, and the applicant covenants and agrees to hold city
harmless against any attempts by contractor to collect said bill.
   (J)   Construction shall commence within sixty (60) days of signed
agreement. Should the applicant fail to begin construction within sixty (60)
days from the signed agreement, the city may extend additional time. The city
may elect to terminate the cost sharing agreement with written notice provided
to the applicant.
   (K)   The city will earmark a set amount of funds to be utilized by the
sidewalk replacement program. Upon depletion of the allocated funds for a
calendar year, a waiting list may be initiated for such time as funding is
available. Priority will be given on a first come, first serve basis as
permitted by funding. Upon receipt of multiple requests, the city will consider
walkways with the greatest public good and may prioritize funding. The vote of
the Common Council shall be final in determining priority projects. At its
discretion, the city may suspend this program due to funding constraints.
(Ord. 2018-9, passed 8-2-18; Am. Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-13-19)
§ 92.03 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL ON SIDEWALKS AND CURB RAMPS IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.
   (A)   The city places a ban on the use of any salt product, products
containing chlorides, or products containing corrosive chemicals for the
removal of snow and ice on sidewalks and curb ramps within public right-of-way.
   (B)   In lieu of the ban on the use of salt products, products containing
chlorides, or products containing corrosive chemicals, the city recommends the
use of the following:
      (1)   Natural de-icers such as sand;
      (2)   UREA 46-0-0;
      (3)   Liquid anti-icing or de-icing agents not containing corrosive
chemicals or chlorides.
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be subject
to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). Each subsequent violation shall be subject
to an additional fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) per occurrence. Fines shall be
cumulative.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 8-11-20)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Authority
   
93.02   Prohibited activity and behavior
   
93.03   Hours of operation
   
93.04   Group activity
   
93.05   Picnic areas
   
93.06   Swimming in city lakes prohibited
   
93.07   Motor vehicles
   
93.08   Fishing in lakes; license required
   
93.09   Administration; permits
   
93.10   Control of sanitary conditions at City Lake Park
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see §
32.01
   Operation at city lake, see §
70.02
§ 93.01 AUTHORITY.
   The Common Council of the City of Boonville, hereby re-vests itself with
full power and authority to establish, maintain and equip playgrounds and
recreation centers and for other purposes on the new waterworks lake property.
(Ord. 1950-1, passed 6-6-50)
§ 93.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY AND BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   No person in a public park shall:
      (1)   Willfully mark deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace
or remove, any building, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, paving
or paving material, waterlines or other public utilities or parts or
appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers, or other
structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal;
      (2)   Fail to co-operate in maintaining rest rooms and washrooms in a
neat and sanitary condition. No person over the age of five (5) years shall use
the rest rooms and washrooms designated for the opposite sex;
      (3)   Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay, spray park or other body of
water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or
drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter or things, liquid or
solid, which will or may result in the pollution of said waters; or
      (4)   Have brought in or shall dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken
glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, or refuse; or
other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or
contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be
placed in the proper receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste
shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence,
and property disposed of elsewhere.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke inside the pool area and
spray park area of the public park.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a member of any
disorderly crowd, or any crowd gathered for any lawful purpose.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any animal to be in the pool and spray park
area. All animals in park must be leashed. Owners responsible for removal of
animal’s waste. Owner is responsible for animal’s behavior.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession,
custody or control any alcoholic beverage, (including beer), drugs, dope,
narcotics, marijuana, opium or heroin, of any kind whatsoever.
   (F)   No person in a public park shall:
      (1)   Expose or offer for sale any article or thing, nor shall he station
or place any stand, cart or vehicle for the transportation, sale or display of
any such article or thing. Exception is here made as to any regularly licensed
concessionaire acting by and under the authority and regulation of the City of
Boonville.
      (2)   Announce, advertise or call the public attention in any way to any
article or service for sale or hire.
      (3)   Paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard,
advertisement or inscription whatever, nor shall any person erect or cause to
be erected any sign whatever on any public lands or highways or roads adjacent
to a park.
(Ord. 1970-10, passed 10-1-70; Am. Ord. 2010-2, passed 5-6-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Hours. The public park shall be opened daily. Any section, or part of
the park, may be declared closed to the public by the Park Director or Aquatic
Director at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at
regular or stated intervals.
   (B)   Hours for swimming pool. Hours for public swimming and Spray Park
shall be posted annually. Directors may close the swimming pool and spray park
during inclement weather, where unsanitary water conditions exist, or for any
special events.
(Ord. 1970-10, passed 10-1-70; Am. Ord. 2010-2, passed 5-6-10)
§ 93.04 GROUP ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Whenever any group, association or organization desires to use the
park facilities for a particular purpose, such as picnics, parties or
theatrical or entertainment performances, a representative of the group,
association or organization shall first obtain a permit from the City of
Boonville for such purposes.
   (B)   The City shall grant the application if it appears that the group,
association or organization will not interfere with the general use of the park
by the individual members of the public and if the group, association or
organization meets all other conditions in the application, the application may
contain a requirement for an indemnity bond to protect the city from any
liability of any kind or character and to protect city property from damage,
and shall contain such a provision if the swimming pool or spray park is to be
utilized by the group.
(Ord. 1970-10, passed 10-1-70; Am. Ord. 2010-2, passed 5-6-10)
§ 93.05 PICNIC AREAS.
   No person in a public park shall:
   (A)   Picnic or lunch in a place other than those designated for that
purpose. Attendants shall have the authority to regulate the activities in such
areas when necessary to prevent congestion and to secure the maximum use for
the comfort and convenience of all. Visitors shall comply with any directions
given to achieve this end; or
   (B)   Leave a picnic area before the fire is completely extinguished and
before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans, bottles, garbage and
other refuse is placed in the disposal receptacles where provided. If no such
trash receptacles are available, then refuse and trash shall be carried away
from the park area by the picnicker to be properly disposed of elsewhere.
(Ord. 1970-10, passed 10-1-70; Am. Ord. 2010-2, passed 5-6-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 SWIMMING IN CITY LAKES PROHIBITED.
   No person in a public park shall:
   (A)   Swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to any
park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided therefore, and
in compliance with such regulations as are herein set forth or may be hereafter
adopted.
   (B)   No person shall appear in bathing costume at any place in the parks
except within the limits of designated bathing places or areas, and all bathing
costumes shall conform to commonly accepted standards.
   (C)   Dress or undress on any beach, or in any vehicle, toilet or other
place, except in such bathing houses or structures as may be provided for that
purpose.
(Ord. 1970-10, passed 10-1-70; Am. Ord. 2010-2, passed 5-6-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in any area
in the public park in excess of posted speed limit, and no motor vehicle shall
be operated any place in the park except upon roadways or parking areas
provided by for motor vehicles.
(Ord. 1970-10, passed 10-1-70; Am. Ord. 2010-2, passed 5-6-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 FISHING IN LAKES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Common Council of the City of Boonville, Indiana, does hereby
permit fishing in the lakes owned by the City of Boonville, Indiana, under
license, said license to be granted only to persons over 14 years of age,
applying for the same under the following conditions and regulations.
   (B)   Any person over 14 years of age desiring to fish in said lakes may
obtain a license to do so by making a written application to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the City of Boonville, Indiana, if it shall therein appear that
said applicant is a resident of the city of Boonville, said applicant shall pay
a fee of One ($1.00) Dollar per annum therefor; and if said application shows
said applicant is a non-resident of the City of Boonville said applicant shall
pay a fee of Five ($5.00) Dollars per annum. Upon receipt of such fee said
Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Boonville shall issue to such applicant a
fishing license.
   (C)   All fishing licenses herein issued shall expire December 31st of the
year in which the same is issued.
   (D)   All proceeds collected by the Clerk-Treasurer from the sale of fishing
license shall be applied to a special fund for the Boonville Park and
Recreation Board for the use of such Boonville Park and Recreation Board in
beautifying and improving said lakes and the grounds thereof.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for anyone of the age of 14 years or over to fish
in said lakes without having first obtained said fishing license.
(Ord. 1963-3, passed 4-16-63)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.09 ADMINISTRATION; PERMITS.
   (A)   The Parks Director and Aquatics Director will both report to the Park
and Recreation Board ("Board"). The Board will not micro-manage, but all hires
(names submitted for approval) and policy decisions will come before the Board.
   (B)   The Park Director and Aquatic Director and any member of the Park and
Recreation Board or any member of the City Police Department, shall enforce the
provisions of this article and any other ordinance relating to the use of the
public park.
(Ord. 1970-10, passed 10-1-70; Am. Ord. 2010-2, passed 5-6-10)
§ 93.10 CONTROL OF SANITARY CONDITIONS AT CITY LAKE PARK.
   (A)   There shall be no feeding of waterfowl at City Lake Park.
   (B)   All dogs at City Lake Park must be restrained on leashes.
   (C)   Any animal defecation must be removed immediately by owner.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 4-1-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter by failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with the provisions of any
notice herein provided for, within ten (10) days after the service thereof, or,
who shall resist or obstruct in carrying out the provisions of this ordinance
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as set by the City of
Boonville for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 5-6-10)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Weeds
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Prohibitions
   
94.03   Notice to remove
   
94.04   Removal of vegetation by department
   
94.05   Liability for costs for removal of vegetation
   
94.06   Notice of costs incurred in removal of vegetation
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 95
   Garbage accumulations; nuisance, see §
51.08
   Parades, circuses and the like, see §
112.01
   Signs on utility poles, see §
130.02
**** WEEDS ****
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   CONTINUAL ABATEMENT NOTICE.  A statement included on the initial notice
informing the property owner if there are further violations of the weed
ordinance throughout the year and the city mows the weeds on the owner's
behalf, the property owner will receive notice and be invoiced at the property
instead of by certified mail. This notice can be delivered at the time of the
mowing.
   DEPARTMENT. The Board of Works, which shall have the responsibility of
administering the City of Boonville's Weed and Rank Vegetation Ordinance.
   INITIAL NOTICE. The first weed abatement notice of the calendar year sent
through certified mail, return receipt requested, or an equivalent service
permitted under I.C. 1 -1 -7-1.
   OWNER. The owner of record as found in the records of the Auditor of Warrick
County.
   OWNER'S ADDRESS. The most recent mailing address of the owner and being that
address to which the County Treasurer sends tax duplicates.
   RANK VEGETATION. Any plant growth which is or may be harmful to the senses,
health or well-being of citizens of the jurisdiction.
   WEEDS.  Any growth of vegetation, other than trees, bushes, shrubs,
ornamental plants, or plants cultivated in an orderly manner for the purpose of
producing food. Trees, bushes or shrubs which have sprouted as volunteers and
are growing along fence line(s), structures and public right-of-ways, shall be
considered to be WEEDS .
(Ord. 1970-5, passed 6-4-70; Am. Ord. 1995-3, passed 3-9-95; Am. Ord. 2004-18,
passed 8-5-04; Am. Ord. 2014-1, passed 4-3-14) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No owner of real property shall allow any growth of weeds in excess of
eight (8) inches in height upon his property.
   (B)   No owner of real property shall allow the growth of rank vegetation
upon his property.
(Ord. 1970-5, passed 6-4-70; Am. Ord. 1995-3, passed 3-9-95; Am. Ord. 2004-18,
passed 8-5-04; Am. Ord. 2004-19, passed 8-5-04; Am. Ord. 2014-1, passed 4-3-14)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   Notice to owner - content.
      (1)   For any property found to be in violation of §
94.02, the Department shall issue a notice to remove weeds or rank vegetation
to the owner giving the owner five (5) calendar days notice to remove the
vegetation. The notice shall also state that if the vegetation is not removed
within the five (5) days, the Department will have the vegetation removed,
either by its own workers and equipment or by a contractor hired by the
Department for this purpose. This notice must also state that if the vegetation
is removed by the Department or its agent, the owner will be liable for the
cost incurred by the Department in removing the vegetation.
      (2)   Subsequent notice. One certified mail with return receipt notice
will be sent per property per calendar year hereinafter referred to as the
'initial notice'. Any additional weed violations in the same calendar year will
be handled by a 'continual abatement notice'. The continual abatement notice
will be included on the initial notice which allows the city to mow the
property on the owner's behalf, receiving notice at the property instead of by
certified mail and can be delivered at the time of the mowing.
   (B)   Manner of legal services. Any initial notice to be given hereunder
shall be deemed sufficiently given when placed in an envelope directed to the
person to be notified at the owner’s address as defined in §
94.01 and deposited in a United States Post Office mailbox postage prepaid.
Such postal notices shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested.
Should the return show that the person to be notified has refused delivery of
such certified letter or that such certified letter was unclaimed by the
addressee or unable to be forwarded to the addressee, this refusal or failure
to claim such letter shall constitute sufficient service hereunder.
(Ord. 1970-5, passed 6-4-70; Am. Ord. 1995-3, passed 3-9-95; Am. Ord. 2014-1,
passed 4-3-14)
§ 94.04 REMOVAL OF VEGETATION BY DEPARTMENT.
   The Department shall inspect each property for which a notice to remove
weeds and rank vegetation has been issued at least five (5) calendar days from
the date of delivery as noted on the return receipt or if service is by
publication, at least five (5) calendar days from the date of the second
publication. If the vegetation has not been removed by the owner at the time of
this inspection, the Department may have it removed utilizing its own employees
and equipment or a contractor engaged by the Department pursuant to a public
bidding process. In the event that the vegetation is located in an enclosed
area, the entry to which is limited by a locked gate, the Department or its
contractor shall have the authority to remove the lock and enter onto the
property for the purpose of removing vegetation that is in violation of the
ordinance.
(Ord. 1970-5, passed 6-4-70; Am. Ord. 1995-3, passed 3-9-95; Am. Ord. 2014-1,
passed 4-3-14)
§ 94.05 LIABILITY FOR COSTS FOR REMOVAL OF VEGETATION.
   (A)   When rank vegetation is removed by action of the Department or its
contractor under §
94.04, the owner(s) of record at the time the notice to remove rank vegetation
was sent are jointly and severally liable for the following costs:
      (1)   The actual cost of the work performed by the department or the bid
price of work accomplished by a contractor under §
94.04; and
      (2)   An amount that represents a reasonable forecast of the average
processing expense that will be incurred by the Department in taking the
technical, administrative and legal actions concerning rank vegetation
violations that are necessary to remove rank vegetation may be performed by the
Department or by a contractor under §
94.04. In calculating the amount of the average processing expense, the
following costs may be considered:
         (a)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity
and location of the owner;
         (b)   The cost of preparing and mailing notices;
         (c)   The cost of publishing notices;
         (d)   The salaries and fringe benefits of employees;
         (e)   The pro-rated cost of motor vehicle operating costs for
Department owned vehicles or the cost of mileage for use of employees' private
vehicles; and
         (f)   The cost of supplies, equipment and office space.
   (B)   (1)   When grass and/or weeds are removed by action of the Department
or its contractor under §
94.04, the owners(s) of record at the time the notice to remove grass and/or
weeds was sent are jointly and severally liable for the costs of removal.
      (2)   The costs of typical grass and/or weed removal by the City will be
$200.00 whether the City has to mow or trim any portion of any property,
premises, lot or sidewalk within the City of Boonville.
      (3)   The costs of atypical grass and/or weed removal by the City will
be:
         (a)   The actual cost of the work performed by the department or the
bid price of work accomplished by a contractor under §
94.04; and
         (b)   An amount that represents a reasonable forecast of the average
processing expense that will be incurred by the Department in taking the
technical, administrative and legal actions concerning grass and/or weed
violations that are necessary to remove weeds and/or grass may be performed by
the Department or by a contractor under §
94.04. In calculating the amount of the average processing expense, the
following costs may be considered:
            1.   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity
and location of the owner;
            2.   The cost of preparing and mailing notices;
            3.   The cost of publishing notices;
            4.   The salaries and fringe benefits of employees;
            5.   The pro-rated cost of motor vehicle operating costs for
department owned vehicles or the cost of mileage for use of employees' private
vehicles; and
            6.   The cost of supplies, equipment and office space.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 3-9-95; Am. Ord. 2004-19, passed 8-5-04; Am. Ord. 2014-1,
passed 4-3-14)
§ 94.06 NOTICE OF COSTS INCURRED IN REMOVAL OF VEGETATION.
   (A)   Upon the initial ordinance violation, the Department shall send a
notice of cost of removal of vegetation to owner after completion of the
removal and calculation by the Department of its costs incurred in removing the
vegetation or upon receipt by the Department of an invoice from the contractor
which removed the vegetation. The notice shall include the property address
from which the vegetation was removed, the date on which the vegetation was
removed, the cost of the actual removal of vegetation.
   (B)   Upon subsequent ordinance violations, the invoice will be included
with the continual abatement notice and payable within 15 days. Unpaid invoices
plus associated recording, certified mail and lien release fees will be filed
as a lien with the Warrick County Auditor and Recorded in the office of the
Recorder of Warrick County, Indiana.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 3-9-95; Am. Ord. 2014-1, passed 4-3-14)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   The penalties for violation of this chapter shall be one hundred dollars ($
100.00) for each violation. Unpaid fines/citations shall be filed as a lien
with the Warrick County Auditor and recorded in the Recorder’s Office of
Warrick County, Indiana.
(Ord. 2004-18, passed 8-5-04; Am. Ord. 2014-1, passed 4-3-14)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Cruelty prohibited
   
95.02   Dangerous animals
   
95.03   Noises and odors
   
95.04   Stray animals
   
95.05   Diseased animals
   
95.06   Housing; shelter requirements
Dog and Cat Regulations; Licensing
   
95.20   Running at large
   
95.21   Registration; license required
   
95.22   Poundkeeper; impoundment procedure
   
95.23   Biting dogs; quarantine
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 95.01 CRUELTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the City in any way; any person
who inhumanely beats, under feeds, overloads or abandons any animal shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 1967-12, passed 7-6-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.02 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal or vicious animal
of any kind to run at large within the City; exhibitions or parades of animals
which are feral naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon
securing a permit from the chief of police.
   (B)   The members of the police department or any other person in the City,
are authorized to kill any dangerous animals of any kind when it is necessary
for the protection of any person or property.
(Ord. 1967-12, passed 7-6-67)
§ 95.03 NOISES AND ODORS.
   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animals which disturb the peace
by loud noises at any time of the day or night, or which produces odors which
disturb the peace, health, comfort or sanitary conditions of the neighborhood.
(Ord. 1967-12, passed 7-6-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.04 STRAY ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, horse, swine, sheep, goats or
poultry to run at large in the City; any such animal running at large in any
public place in the City shall be impounded as provided by ordinance. It shall
further be unlawful to picket or tie any such animal in any of the streets of
the City for the purpose of grazing or feeding.
(Ord. 1967-12, passed 7-6-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.05 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease
shall be allowed to run at large, or to be exposed in any public place whereby
the health of man or beast may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof, except under the
supervision of the chief of police or the health officer.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the health officer to secure such
disposition of any diseased animal and such treatment of affected premises as
to prevent the communication and spread of the contagion or infection, except
in cases where the state veterinarian is empowered to act.
(Ord. 1967-12, passed 7-6-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.06 HOUSING; SHELTER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal is
or may be kept to become unclean, or unwholesome, and it shall be unlawful to
keep any live swine or pigs in the City.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep or have any goats anywhere in the City,
or any cattle, horses, sheep or chickens within one hundred fifty (150) feet of
any residence, other than the residence of the person so keeping or having such
animals anywhere in the City for a period of more than Twenty Four (24) hours.
   (C)   Every person maintaining a poultry or animal yard shall keep the same
clean and sanitary, and free from all refuse. Such yards shall be thoroughly
swept at least once every twenty-four hours and it shall be unlawful to permit
any decaying food, or any refuse of any kind, to remain in such yard. Refuse
from such yards shall, when swept up or collected, be kept in airtight
containers until disposed of in accordance with the ordinances of the City, and
it shall be unlawful to permit any such refuse to remain uncovered.
   (D)   Every poultry or animal yard shall be adequately enclosed so as to be
impenetrable against rats or other rodents. The presence of any rats in any
poultry or animal yard shall be prima facie evidence that such yard is
maintained in violation of the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1967-12, passed 7-6-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
**** DOG AND CAT REGULATIONS; LICENSING ****
§ 95.20 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No dog nor cat shall be permitted to run at large in the city at any time.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 2-14-80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.21 REGISTRATION; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No dog shall be permitted to be or remain in the city without being
licensed as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   (1)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed,
name and address of the owner and name of dog. At the time of such registration
such owner shall obtain a license for such dog and shall pay a fee of One
($1.00) Dollar for each male and spayed female dog and a fee of Two ($2.00)
Dollars for each unspayed female dog.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of said owner to cause such license tag to be
securely attached around the dog's neck and kept there at all times during the
license period.
   (C)   No person owning any dog or cat shall suffer or permit such dog to
disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by making loud or unusual
noises.
   (D)   Any dog or cat running at large in the city and any dog found in the
city without a license is hereby declared a nuisance and shall be impounded as
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 2-14-80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.22 POUNDKEEPER; IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The poundkeeper is hereby charged with the duty of impounding all dogs
and cats running at large in violation of the provisions of this chapter. He
shall be special police officer and shall be and is hereby authorized to make
all necessary arrests in carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The owner or owners of any dogs or cats impounded hereunder may redeem
the same by paying the sum of Two ($2.00) Dollars for each day said dog or cat
has been impounded up to the time of making the redemption, and when the same
are paid to said poundkeeper it shall be his duty and he shall release the dog,
or cat from said pound and deliver it to the owner thereof.
   (C)   (1)   Immediately after impounding any dog or cat hereunder, it shall
be the duty of the poundkeeper to enter upon the records of the pound in a book
to be kept by him for such purposes the date of impounding, a description of
the dog or cat impounded, and a record as to whether or not such dog has been
licensed and tagged as required by the ordinances.
      (2)   Public notice of the impounding of such dog or cat shall be given
by posting one copy of the description of such dog or cat and date of
impounding at the pound and one copy of such notice at the door of the city
hall. Any such dog or cat not redeemed by the owner thereof within five (5)
days after the posting of such notice by the poundkeeper shall be and he is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The poundkeeper shall immediately
thereafter kill or destroy such dog or cat.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the poundkeeper to cause notice to be served
by mail upon the registered owner of any licensed dog impounded under the
provisions of this chapter, such notice to be mailed at least two (2) days
prior to the posting of the notice of impounding hereinbefore provided.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 2-14-80)
§ 95.23 BITING DOGS; QUARANTINE.
   Whenever, any dog bites a person, the owner of the said dog shall
immediately notify the chief of police who shall order the dog held on the
owner's premises or shall have it impounded for a period of two (2) weeks. The
dog shall be examined immediately after it has bitten anyone and again at the
end of the two (2) week period. If at the end of two (2) weeks a veterinarian
is convinced that the dog is then free from rabies the dog shall be released
from quarantine or from the pound as the case may be. If the dog dies in the
meanwhile its head shall be sent to the state department of health for
examination of rabies.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 2-14-80)

TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS PROVISIONS
   
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
   
112.   AMUSEMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Taxicabs; transportation for hire
   
110.02   Junkyards
   
110.03   Cable television systems
Cross-reference:
   Solid Waste Collection, see §§
51.25 through
51.31
§ 110.01 TAXICABS; TRANSPORTATION FOR HIRE.
   (A)   No taxicab or motor vehicle used for the transportation of passengers
for hire upon the streets in the City of Boonville shall operate within the
corporate limits of the City of Boonville until its owner or operator shall
first obtain a license from the Common Council of the City of Boonville.
   (B)   (1)   As a condition precedent to the issuance of any license for the
operation of a taxicab or motor vehicle for the transportation of passengers
for hire, the applicant therefor must obtain first a certificate of public
convenience and necessity for each motor vehicle used for the transportation of
passengers for hire issued by the Board of Public Works and Safety of said
City. The Common Council of the City of Boonville shall, in its first meeting
of each new calendar year determine how many of such certificates of public
conveniences and necessity shall be issued by the Board of Public Works and
Safety during that calendar year, and no more than the number determined by the
Common Council shall be issued by the Board of Public Works and Safety; that
for the calendar year 1957, the Board of Public Works and Safety may issue up
to and including five (5) certificates of public convenience and necessity.
      (2)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may issue a certificate of
public convenience and necessity to the applicant for each motor vehicle used
in the transportation of passengers for hire after first ascertaining the
applicant's ability to meet the requirements as set forth in this section and
after an affirmative finding for the need of the service offered by said
applicant.
   (C)   Certificates of public convenience and necessity shall be deemed
renewable, each year, for a period of five (5) years, by the holder of the
annual license and registration fees. At the end of the fifth year for any
issued certificate of public convenience and necessity any certificate holder
must make new application to the City for the issuance of a new certificate.
   (D)   Before obtaining a license from the Common Council of said City for
the operation of a taxicab or motor vehicle for the transportation of
passengers for hire in said City, the applicant shall first place on file in
the City Hall an indemnity insurance policy conditioned to protect passengers
of members of the public generally who may be injured as a result of the
operation of any taxicab or motor vehicle for the transportation of passengers
for hire which may be owned or operated by said applicant and conditioned
further to protect against property damage occasioned by the operation of such
vehicles; such insurance policy shall have indemnity limits at least equal to
those required by the State of Indiana for such vehicles, and said indemnity
amounts may be fixed by the Common Council of the City of Boonville in amounts
higher than is required by the State of Indiana generally.
   (E)   No license shall be issued on any certificate of public convenience
and necessity to any operator of any taxicab or motor vehicle for the
transportation of passengers for hire who is under the age of twenty-one (21)
years or to one who is not of good moral character.
   (F)   Each applicant for a license for the operation of a taxicab or motor
vehicle for the transportation of passengers for hire shall present a schedule
of proposed rates and charges for the transportation of passengers within the
city for the approval of the Common Council. No rates or charges so approved
shall be changed until such licensee shall first present any proposed change in
the schedule of rates and charges to the Common Council and have the same
approved.
   (G)   (1)   Each holder of a certificate of public convenience and necessity
for any motor vehicles for the transportation of passengers for hire shall pay
to the City of Boonville, at the City Hall, an annual license fee in the amount
of $25.00 together with an annual registration fee in the amount of $5.00 for
each taxicab or motor vehicle used for the transportation of passengers for
hire within said City. Such license and registration fees shall be payable on
or before the 31st day of January of each year or upon the issuance thereof.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer, upon the payment of said license fee together
with the registration fee, and upon the presentation of a certificate of public
convenience and necessity for each motor vehicle used for the transportation of
passengers for hire shall issue to said certificate holder a license, together
with city registration plates for each taxicab or motor vehicle used by said
certificate holder for the transportation of passengers for hire, which
registration plate shall be affixed to each taxicab or motor vehicle used for
such transportation of passengers for hire. No motor vehicle for the
transportation of passengers for hire shall be operated within said city
without having had registration plates issued therefor and attached thereto.
   (H)   The City of Boonville may revoke or suspend any such license issued
for good cause, by giving written notice to such license holder and after
giving such license holder an opportunity for a hearing, if so demanded.
   (I)   (1)   The vehicle or vehicles, equipment and premises of each license
holder shall be inspected semi-annually from the date of issuance of such
license by an Inspection Commission, consisting of the Chief of Police of said
City, the City Mechanic and a third person nominated by the Mayor
      (2)   Such Inspection Commission shall have the authority to issue orders
requiring any license holder to correct and deficiency in any equipment of the
condition of the premises which may be detrimental to the public welfare and
safety.
   (J)   No license or certificate of public convenience and necessity shall be
deemed saleable or transferable unless the holder of such license or
certificate of public convenience and necessity first obtain the consent of the
Common Council of the City of Boonville to such sale or transfer, and the
Common Council approves the transferee as the future holder of such license or
certificate of public convenience and necessity.
(Ord. 1956-10, passed 1-1-57)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code, see
Title VII
§ 110.02 JUNKYARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate a junkyard in the
residential district where it is maintained outside the walls of the building.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, any junkyard maintained or operated
outside of a building in a residential district is hereby declared to be a
common nuisance.
(Ord. 1934-6, passed 7-3-34)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.03 CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The City will follow the FCC Rate Regulations in its regulation of the
basic service rates and charges of the company and any other cable television
system operating in the City, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent
provisions in the franchise; and
   (B)   In connection with such regulation, the City will ensure a reasonable
opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties; and
   (C)   The Mayor or his designee, is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City and file with the FCC such certification forms or other instruments as are
now or may hereafter be required by the FCC Rate Regulations in order to enable
the City to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Ord. 1993-26, passed - -93)
Cross-reference:
   Franchise Agreements, see
T.S.O. Table III
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Bucket shakes prohibited
Peddling and Soliciting
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   Peddlers and hawkers; license required
   
111.17   Badge and vehicle sign: display
   
111.18   Sales made from vehicle or handcraft
   
111.19   Registration requirement
   
111.20   Application for permission to solicit
   
111.21   Fees; approval
   
111.22   Stamped credentials; non-transferrable
   
111.23   Exceptions
   
111.24   Revocation of license
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 111.01 BUCKET SHAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the collection of funds while standing on a
street or highway in the City of Boonville (generally known as “Bucket Shake”)
without first having obtained written permission issued therefor as provided in
this section.
   (B)   The word “person” shall mean any human being, partnership, association
or corporation.
   (C)   All persons collecting funds as herein provided shall be permitted to
collect funds only on the corner of Main Street, intersection of Second and
Locust streets and Third Street on Saturday between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to
12:00 noon.
   (D)   All persons collecting funds must have a permit issued by the State of
Indiana to collect funds while standing upon a State Highway. The Indiana State
permit must be shown to Police Chief before permission for “bucket shake” is
granted.
   (E)   All persons collecting funds as herein provided shall present proof to
Police Chief that the collection of funds is to be used solely by a not-for-
profit organization.
   (F)   All persons collecting funds in the designated streets must be
eighteen (18) years of age or older. Said persons must be wearing an orange
item or apparel while collecting funds.
   (G)   All persons shall identify the purpose and/or organization while
collecting funds.
(Ord. 1994-20, passed 12-8-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
**** PEDDLING AND SOLICITING ****
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOODS, WARES, MERCHANDISE and SERVICES. Includes, but is not limited to
magazines, periodicals, printed matter and advertising space in any
publication.
   REGISTRATION. Not to be construed to be a permit to enter privately-policed
areas.
(Ord. 1994-19, passed 12-22-94; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-4-04)
§ 111.16 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of hawking or peddling, with or
without a vehicle or handcart, on or about the streets, alleys, hotels,
business houses, private dwellings, or any public or private place in the City,
or offer for sale from house to house or door to door, any jewelry, cutlery,
clocks, medicine, goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind, or any meats, fish,
fruits, produce, ice-cream, or other articles or things, or take orders for
such goods, wares, or other articles or things for immediate or future
delivery, without first having obtained a license therefor as provided in this
title.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to any farmer,
gardener, or fruit or vegetable grower engaged in selling the produce of his
own farm, orchard, or vineyard, located in Warrick County, or such a person who
sells or takes orders for goods to be sold and delivered to merchants, traders,
or dealers who purchase the goods for the purpose of resale.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to apply to news
carriers. No person under the full age of fourteen (14) years of age shall
engage in the business of hawking or peddling under any circumstances, with the
exception of news carriers.
   (D)   No license shall be transferable or shall authorize any other person
than the one named therein to sell thereunder.
   (E)   The word "person" shall mean any human being, partnership, association
or corporation.
(Ord. 1994-19, passed 12-22-94; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-4-04)
§ 111.17 BADGE AND VEHICLE SIGN: DISPLAY.
   When any license is issued pursuant to this section, the person to whom the
license is issued shall be supplied by the Zoning Administrator, without
additional charge, with a badge stamped or marked "Licensed Peddler" and it
shall be numbered. The peddler shall keep the badge plainly displayed on the
outside of his/her coat or clothes when engaged in peddling and shall surrender
it on the expiration of the license.
(Ord. 1994-19, passed 12-22-94; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-4-04)
§ 111.18 SALES MADE FROM VEHICLE OR HANDCRAFT.
   No person engaged in the business of hawking or peddling, as herein defined,
shall conduct the business from a vehicle or handcraft which is standing in one
location, whether occupied or not, except temporarily and then only for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in the transaction of a sale. Any
structure remaining over five (5) days shall be connected to City water and
sewer.
(Ord. 1994-19, passed 12-22-94; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-4-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.19 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.
   No person over fourteen (14) years of age shall solicit orders from door to
door or on any street or public place within the City for the future delivery
of any goods, wares, merchandise or services, without first registering as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1994-19, passed 12-22-94; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-4-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.20 APPLICATION FOR PERMISSION TO SOLICIT.
   (A)   An applicant for permission to solicit order hereunder shall complete
an application blank provided by the Zoning Administrator. The application
blank shall contain the following information.
      (1)   The name, home address, and local address, if any, of the
applicant. The applicant must provide the Zoning Administrator with a copy of a
valid merchant certificate issued by the Indiana Department of Revenue to
applicant.
      (2)   A physical description of the applicant, setting forth the
applicant's age, height, weight, and color of hair and eyes. (Example: Driver's
License and/or other picture I.D.)
      (3)   The name and address of the person, firm, or corporation for whom
or through whom orders are to be solicited or cleared, including both the home
address and the address of the office or branch out of which the applicant
works.
      (4)   The nature of the goods, wares, merchandise, or services for which
orders are to be solicited.
      (5)   Written permission from the property owner of the location where
peddler will be set up.
      (6)   A statement as to the period during which the applicant intends to
solicit orders, which shall be not longer than until December 31st of the
calendar year during which the application is made.
      (7)   A certificate of insurance in the sum of five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) shall be provided to the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The applicant, at the time of executing the application blank, shall
also submit identification satisfactory to the Zoning Administrator, which
shall contain a specimen of the applicant's signature and a recent photograph
of the applicant small enough to be attached to his/her application blank or
card.
(Ord. 1994-19, passed 12-22-94; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-4-04)
§ 111.21 FEES; APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a license for peddling and
soliciting upon the payment of fees as follows:
      (1)   The applicant has tendered to the Zoning Administrator the sum of
thirty dollars ($30.00) for a period not to exceed one (1) week-end from Friday
through Sunday; or
      (2)   The applicant has tendered to the Zoning Administrator the sum of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a period not to exceed one (1) month; or
      (3)   The applicant has tendered to the Zoning Administrator the sum of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a period not to exceed one (1) year; or
      (4)   All licenses shall terminate on December 31st at 12:00 A.M. in the
year of issue.
   (B)   Upon compliance by the applicant with the provisions of this section,
the Zoning Administrator shall stamp approval on the application blank
submitted by the applicant.
(Ord. 1994-19, passed 12-22-94; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-4-04)
§ 111.22 STAMPED CREDENTIALS; NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   Stamped credentials shall be non-transferable and shall entitle the holder
thereof, for the period indicated therein, unless revoked, to solicit orders
within the City for the purchase of the merchandise specified in his/her
application; however, the holder shall have his/her stamped credentials in his/
her possession at all times while soliciting orders and shall exhibit them at
any time upon request by any law enforcement officer of the City or any
purchaser or prospective purchaser. All food vendors are required to have
approval and permit from the Warrick County Health Department.
(Ord. 1994-19, passed 12-22-94; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-4-04)
§ 111.23 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Salesmen selling goods to retail or wholesale stores for resale.
   (B)   Any person who has, and has had for the preceding twelve (12) months a
regular place of business within the City.
   (C)   Any person employed by or soliciting for any person who has, or has
had for the preceding twelve (12) months, a regular place of business within
the City.
   (D)   Solicitation for or on behalf of churches, schools, or Indiana not-
for-profit corporations.
   (E)   Mail order and catalog sales.
(Ord. 1994-19, passed 12-22-94; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-4-04)
§ 111.24 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   A license issued pursuant to this subchapter may be revoked by the Zoning
Administration after notice and a hearing before the Board of Zoning
Administration, for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements contained in the
application for the license;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares, or merchandise; or
   (C)   Any violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   Conducting the business licensed under this subchapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 1994-19, passed 12-22-94; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-4-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Parades, circuses and the like
§ 112.01 PARADES, CIRCUSES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Application for all licenses and permits required by ordinances shall
be made in writing to the City Clerk-Treasurer. Each application shall state
the name of the applicants, the permit or license desired, the location to be
used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be paid; and each application
shall contain such additional information as may be needed for the proper
guidance of the city officials in the issuing of the permit or license applied
for
   (B)   Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance,
operation or conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or
engaging in any activity or occupations any person or corporation shall be
subject to the requirement if by himself or through an agent's employee or
partner, he holds himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation,
or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively, or performs or attempts
to perform any part of such business or occupation in the city or intends to
use the public streets of the city for parades, marches, assemblages of masses
of people, or property for the promotion of projects, ideas or beliefs.
   (C)   Forms for all licenses and permits and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept in file by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the Mayor
and the City Clerk-Treasurer in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of any application for a license or permit where
ordinances of the city necessitate an inspection or investigation before the
issuance of such permit or license, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall refer such
application to the proper officer for making such investigation within forty-
eight (48) hours of the time of such investigation or inspection shall make a
report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving
the application or a copy thereof. The health officer shall make or cause to be
made an inspection in regard to such licenses in the connection of the care or
handling of food and the preventing of nuisances and the spread of disease for
the protection of health; the building inspector shall make or cause to be made
any such inspections relative to the construction of buildings or other
structures. All other investigations except where otherwise provided, shall be
made by the Chief of Police or by some other officer designated by the Mayor
   (F)   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the City Clerk-Treasurer. When an applicant has not engaged in the
business until after the expiration of part of the current license year, the
license fee shall be prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or
fraction thereof during which the business has been or will be conducted.
Except as otherwise provided, all license fees shall become a part of the
corporate fund.
   (G)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year
of the city where they are issued where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (H)   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any
permitted act, may be changed, provided ten (10) days notice is given to the
City Clerk-Treasurer, in the absence of any provision to the contrary,
provided, that the building, zoning and frontage consent requirements of the
ordinances are complied with.
   (I)   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to
amount to a nuisance in fact.
   (J)   (1)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection
with the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or
required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with
any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty
of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected to
admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection, any officer or employee
of the city who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any
reasonable time that admission is requested.
      (2)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the municipality
whose business is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer
or employee of the city requesting the same sufficient samples of such material
or commodity for such analysis upon request. In addition to any other penalty
which may be provided, the Mayor may revoke the license of any licensed
proprietor of any licensed business in the city who refuses to permit any such
officer or employee who is authorized to make such inspection or take such
sample to make the inspection, or take an adequate sample of the said
commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his duty in making such inspection. Provided, that no license
shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee
or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the city, stating that such
inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection
or obtain the sample.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful to conduct any parade, march, assemblages of
masses of people or property for the promotion of projects, ideas or beliefs in
or on any public street, alley or other public way or place in the city, unless
a permit therefor is first obtained from the Chief of Police and the Clerk-
Treasurer of the City as herein provided. Such permit shall specify the route
to be followed, and shall be accompanied by a bond in the sum of Ten Thousand
Dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss, damage or
liability incurred or caused by the conduct of such parade, march, assemblage
of masses of people or property.
   (L)   Assemblage of masses of people or property is hereby defined to be an
organized group of people of five (5) or more persons which tends to or is
calculated to cause or promote attention, gathering of spectators or people, to
create a disturbance or a riot.
   (M)   Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the Mayor
at any time during the life of such license or permit for any violation by the
licensee the license or permit or to the premises occupied; such revocation be
in addition to any fine imposed.
(Ord. 1971-10, passed 5-20-71)
Penalty, see § 10.99

TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Unlawful noise
   
130.02   Signage on utility poles
   
130.03   Possession of alcohol on public property
   
130.04   Firearms; discharge and possession
   
130.05   Curfew
   
130.06   Synthetic cannabinoids
   
130.07   Living in a recreational vehicle
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 UNLAWFUL NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall make or cause to be made any distinctly and loudly
audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or welfare of any person or precludes
their enjoyment of property or affects their property's value. This general
prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of the following
subdivisions.
   (B)   No person shall sound any audible signaling device on any vehicle
except as a warning of danger in the conformance with the traffic laws of the
City.
   (C)   No person shall discharge the exhaust or permit the discharge of the
exhaust of any internal combustion engine except through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom and
complies with all applicable City or State laws and regulations.
   (D)   No person shall use any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding rattling or other noise.
   (E)   No person shall create loud and excessive noise in loading, unloading
or unpacking any vehicles.
   (F)   No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a street, highway,
alley, parking lot or driveway, whether public or private property, shall
operate or permit the operation of any sound amplification system from within
the vehicle so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 50 or more
feet from the vehicle.
      (1)   Sound amplification system means any radio, tape player, compact
disc, loud speaker or other electronic device used for the amplification of
sound.
      (2)   Plainly audible means any sound produced by a sound amplification
system from a vehicle, which clearly can be heard at a distance of 50 feet or
more. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses, based on the
direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and bass
reverberations are included. The motor vehicle may be stopped, standing, parked
or moving on a street, highway, alley, parking lot or driveway on either public
or private property.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
the operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from operating the sound
amplification system and that any of the following apply:
         (a)   The system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition;
         (b)   The vehicle was an emergency public safety vehicle; and
         (c)   The system or vehicle was used in an authorized public activity
such as a parade, fireworks, sporting events, musical production or other
activities which have the approval of the governing body or a department of the
City authorized to grant such approval.
(Ord. 1998-20, passed 11-23-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Regulations, see
Chapter 70
§ 130.02 SIGNAGE ON UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   No person, firm, association, business or corporation shall permit or
cause to attach to any utility pole, City property or City right-of-way of the
City of Boonville, Indiana, any posters, signs, notices, papers and
advertisements.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the chief of police to serve or cause to be
served a notice upon the person, firm, association, business or corporation who
has permitted such posters signs, notices, papers and advertisements or who has
caused said posters, signs, notices, papers or advertisements to be placed or
attached upon the utility pole or poles, City property or City right of way of
the City in violation of the provisions of this section and to demand the
abatement of said posters, signs, notices, papers or advertisements and nails,
tacks or staples immediately on same day of placement.
   (C)   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance of said posters,
signs, notices, papers and advertisements on the same day of placement the
chief of police may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the
expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by such
owner or occupant.
(Ord. 1972-2, passed 5-4-72; Am. Ord. 1998-5, passed 5-14-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Business Regulations, see
Title XI
§ 130.03 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOL ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   The possession or use of beer, wine or liquor while within the
confines of any property identified in division (B) is prohibited.
   (B)   Those properties subject to division (A) are all properties owned by
the City or any of its utilities, departments or boards, except City Hall.
   (C)   The City has acquired Quail Crossing Golf Club, which is now a City
owned and operated venture. It is appropriate for the City to sell and allow
the responsible use of alcohol on its property. Ordinance 1990-12 previously
prohibited the possession, sale and use of alcohol on all City properties.
Accordingly Ordinance 1990-12 is amended as specified herein.
(Ord. 1990-12, passed 5-24-90; Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 11-2-17)   
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.04 FIREARMS; DISCHARGE AND POSSESSION.
   No minor under the age of sixteen (16) years shall handle, use or have in
his possession, or under his control, in any public, place within the corporate
limits of the City of Boonville, Indiana, except while accompanied by or under
the immediate charge of his parent or legal guardian, any firearm of any kind,
including air rifles and bee bee guns.
(Ord. 1966-1, passed 2-3-66)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.05 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD.  Has the same meaning as JUVENILE , and vice versa.
      CURFEW VIOLATION. The presence of:
         (a)   A child/juvenile fifteen (15), sixteen (16), or seventeen (17)
years of age in a public place: (i) between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday
or Sunday; (ii) after 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, or (iii) before 5:00 am on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday without Parent (Custodian), Guardian or responsible adult.
         (b)   A child/juvenile under fifteen (15) years of age in a public
place: (i) after 11:00 p.m. on before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
      All items being prevailing local time for City of Boonville, Warrick
County, Indiana.
      CUSTODIAN. A parent or other person who has legal or physical custody
over a child/juvenile, whether by parentage, court order, practice, or custom.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, natural disaster, or automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.  
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a child/juvenile; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a child/juvenile has been
placed by a court.
      JUVENILE. Any person less than 18 years of age, or the status or
circumstance of being under 18 years of age.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, company, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the manager of managing partners of an association or partnership or
company and the officers of a corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of a child/
juvenile; and
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by law to have the care
and custody of a child/ juvenile.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, shops and businesses.
      REMAIN. To:
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave the public place or establishment when requested
to do so by a law enforcement officer of the owner, operator, or other person
in control of an establishment.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses/violations/prohibited acts. Each violation of a provision of
this section shall be deemed a separate offense, subject to sanction,
enforcement, and penalties as herein prescribed. Offenses under this section
are defined as follows:
      (1)   A child/juvenile commits an offense/violation under this section,
by virtue of a curfew violation, as defined in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of this section if:
         (a)   The child/juvenile engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
            1.   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or custodian, or
responsible adult; or
            2.   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent,
guardian, or custodian; or
         (b)   The child/juvenile was emancipated:
            1.   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its
repeal);
            2.   By virtue of having married; or
            3.   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction.
      (3)   A parent, guardian, or custodian of a child/juvenile commits an
offense/violation under this section if he or she knowingly permits, or by
insufficient control allows, the child/juvenile to commit a curfew violation by
remaining in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within
the incorporated areas of Boonville City, Indiana in violation of division (B)
(1) of this section.
   (C)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a law enforcement officer, to include officers of the Boonville Police
Department or other law enforcement officers, shall determine the apparent
offending child's/juvenile's age and reason for being in the public place or at
an establishment if reasonably possible. The law enforcement officer shall not
issue a citation or make an arrest under this section unless the law
enforcement officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that,
based on any response and other circumstances, none of the factors referenced
as parts of division (B)(2) of this Section are present.
   (D)   Continuing education fund. All monies collected as fines assessed as
described in §
130.99 shall be deposited to and used for the purposes of continuing education
for the Boonville Police Department, unless such shall be prohibited by law, in
which circumstance such shall be deposited to and used for the purposes
permitted by the General Fund of Boonville City Government.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 10-4-12) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   This section is adopted pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-1.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids ("Products"), such as K2 or
Spice, or similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds:
      (1)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2memyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7, 10, 10a- tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   l-Pentyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   l-Butyl-3-(l-napthoyl)indoIe, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   All parts of the plant presently classified botanically as Salvia
divinorum, whether growing or not, any extract from any part of such plant, and
every compound, manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or its extracts;
      (5)   TFMPP, a substance also known as l-(3-[trifluoromethylphenyl])
piperazine;
      (6)   Cannabicyclohexanol, a substance also know as 2-[(lR,3S)-3-
hydroxycyclohexyl]- 5-(methylnonan-2-yl)phenol; or
      (7)   Any other relevant compound or derivative
      Shall not be sold, marketed, or offered for sale within Boonville,
Indiana; and
   (C)   Products containing synthetic camiabinoids ("Products") may not be
burned, incinerated, or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased or controlled by the City of Boonville.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any business or retail establishment to sell, to
publicly display for sale, or to attempt to sale, give or barter synthetic
marijuana or synthetic equivalents of substances contained in the plant
Cannabis, or in the resinous extractives of Cannabis and/or synthetic
substances, derivatives, and their isomers with similar chemical structure and
pharmacological activity or any substance which claims such properties even if
in actuality they do not. Since nomenclature of these substances is no
internationally standardized, compounds of these structures, regardless of
numerical designation of atomic positions, are similarly prohibited.
   (E)   Persons violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to
the penalty imposed for violating a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4, and shall be subject to a minimum fine of $500.00, plus court costs.
Each day of the existence of any violation of this section shall be considered
a separate offense.
   (F)   Entities, including businesses and retail establishments, violating
the provisions of this section shall be subject to the penalty imposed for
violating a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C. 34-28-5-4, and shall be
subject to a minimum fine of $2,500.00, plus court costs. Each day of the
existence of any violation of this section shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (G)   Any person found to be in possession of the aforementioned substances
shall be subject to the penalty imposed for violating a Class C infraction, as
set forth in I.C. 34-28-5-4, and shall be subject to a minimum fine of $250.00,
plus court costs. Further, if any of the aforementioned substances are found in
the possession of any person, they may be confiscated and destroyed by any law
enforcement official as provided by law. Each day of the existence of any
violation of this section shall be considered a separate offense.
   (H)   This section shall be enforced by the provisions of I.C. 34-28-5.
   (I)   Any fines collected under this section shall be placed in the City
General Fund.
(Ord. 2010-8, passed 10-7-10)
§ 130.07 LIVING IN A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   (A)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE means a vehicle with or without motive power
equipped exclusively for living quarters for persons traveling upon the
highways. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE does not include a mobile structure as defined
in I.C. 22-12-1-17.
   (B)   A person may not live in a recreational vehicle or a non-permanent
structure for a period in excess of fourteen (14) days within a calendar year
in the City of Boonville, Indiana.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals is given authority to grant a variance and
except a person from the enforcement of this section. If the Board of Zoning
Appeals grants a variance, then the Board shall determine the granting of a
variance is in the best interest of the citizens of Boonville, Indiana.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 8-7-08; Am. Ord. 2023-5, passed 4-20-23)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The custodial parent or legal guardian of any child who commits a
curfew violation, as defined in §
130.05, violates §
130.05 and shall be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   Twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for a first offense;
      (2)   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for a second offense, plus court
cost; or
      (3)   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a third offense and every
subsequent offense plus court costs.
   (B)   Violation of §
130.07 may be punishable by a civil penalty not exceeding two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) as prescribed in §
10.99 granted under I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10) and each event shall be deemed a
separate violation.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 8-7-08; Am. Ord. 2012-17, passed 10-4-12; Am. Ord. 2023-5,
passed 4-20-23)

TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
   
152.   MINING; MINERAL REMOVAL
   
153.   ZONING
   
154.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of county regulations
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby adopts and incorporates herein and agrees to
be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the code found at
Commissioners Ordinance 1991-3 and as subsequently amended.
   (B)   It hereby adopts, by reference, all of the rules and regulations, as
set forth in the code, and hereby authorizes the building commissioners, as
provided for in the code, to establish and enforce all of the provisions of the
code, within the limits of the City.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 2-10-94)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
151.08   Establishment of flood development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
151.12   Interpretation
   
151.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.25   Designation of Administrator
   
151.26   Permit procedures
   
151.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   General standards
   
151.41   Specific standards
   
151.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.43   Standards for identified floodways
   
151.44   Standards for identified fringe
   
151.45   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
151.46   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
151.60   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.61   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.62   Variance procedures
   
151.63   Conditions for variances
   
151.64   Variance notification
   
151.65   Historic structure
   
151.66   Special conditions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
    The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Common Council of the City of Boonville does hereby adopt the following
floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)    The flood hazard areas of the City of Boonville are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
    It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters.
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage.
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the City by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
    The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health.
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects.
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions.
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains.
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
    Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual chance
flood event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no
base flood elevation or depths are shown.
      ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones
A1-A30.)
      ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding
(usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are between one
and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses
are shown within this zone.
      ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual chance
flood event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an
under-construction Federal flood protection system. These are areas of special
flood hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a
protection system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for
insurance rating purposes. Zone A99 may only be used when the flood protection
system has reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base
flood elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Accessory structures should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the one-percent annual chance
flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure's
elevation information. This certification must be signed and sealed by a land
surveyor, engineer, or architect authorized by law to certify elevation
information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). Is the official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source (see FLOOD).
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA (see FREEBOARD).
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel ofa river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREE BOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP (as related to variances of this chapter). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Boonville
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision
(LOMR), and letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the currently
effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA
through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA's determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one (1)
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced after the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that
begins with the letter A is subject to the one-percent annual chance flood. See
REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication ofa community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is (1) built on a single chassis; (2)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
(3) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
and (4) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters
for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure
that is acceptable to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood
elevation at any location is as defined in §
151.07. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, ONE-PERCENT
ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
City of Boonville subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of
the City of Boonville are generally identified as such on the Warrick County,
Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated August 2, 2012 as
well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown
on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred REPETITIVE LOSS
or SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
    This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within
the jurisdiction of the City of Boonville.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
    This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the City of Boonville shall be as
delineated on the one-percent annual chance flood profiles in the Flood
Insurance Study of Warrick County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas and the
corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map dated August 2, 2012 as well as any
future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the City of Boonville, delineated as an
"A Zone" on the Warrick County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated August 2, 2012 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best data available as provided by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area
from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party needs to replace existing
data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
    A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
    No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the
SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
    This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)    ln cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.12 INTERPRETATION.
    ln the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements.
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body.
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
    The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the City of Boonville, the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 151.25 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
    The Common Council of the City of Boonville hereby appoints the Zoning
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is
herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
    Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See §
151.27(B)(6) for additional information.)
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer or architect and certified by the same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted.
The applicant shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any
further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to
make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order
for the project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation
certification shall be at the applicant's risk.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or
architect and certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
floodproofing certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the floodproofing certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an
elevation certification (FEMA Elevation Certificate Form 81-31 or any future
updates) which depicts the "as-built" lowest floor elevation is required to be
submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a
floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification (FEMA Floodproofing
Certificate Form 81-65 or any future updates) is required to be submitted by
the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
151.43 and
151.45(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and "as-built" elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the floodcarrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
151.26.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
151.26.
      (13)   Perform a minimum of three inspections to ensure that all
applicable ordinance and floodplain development requirements have been
satisfied. The first upon the establishment of the flood protection grade
reference mark at the development site; the second upon the establishment of
the structure's footprint/establishment of the lowest floor; and the final
inspection upon completion and submission of the required finished construction
elevation certificate. Authorized Boonville officials shall have the right to
enter and inspect properties located in the SFHA.
      (14)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (15)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the ordinance, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
    In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation; collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume. shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory flood water.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this article.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of § 151.40, all structures to be
located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood damage below the FPG. This
building protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous repair, addition or improvement constructed since the community's
first floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
151.41(D).
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
§
151.41(D). Structures located in all "A Zones" may be floodproofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator as set forth in §
151.27(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG. Elevated
structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to preclude finished
living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs must
meet the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above the
exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (4)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (5)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
      (6)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shalt be at an elevation
at or higher than the exterior grade.
      (7)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction in
the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
      (8)   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings/
venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood
vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will
violate the requirements of division (D). Periodic inspections will be
conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The affidavit
shall be recorded, along with the deed, in the office of the Warrick County
Recorder.
      (9)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with the
structure's deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below the
lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet)
shall not be improved, finished or otherwise converted; the community will have
the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall be
recorded in the office of the Warrick County Recorder.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for "manufactured homes" as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D).
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)    All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of fifty (50) lots or five (5)
acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.43 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
151.07, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude nonsubstantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
151.40 through
151.46 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community's more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths (0.15) of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory
flood elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-
floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the City shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR § 65.12.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.44 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
151.40 through
151.46 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.45 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the one-
percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection
grade has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
151.40 through
151.46 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and one-percent annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
151.40 through
151.46 have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and shall not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.46 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§ 151.40 through 151.46.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 151.60 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
    The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.61 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
    The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the board may appeal such decision to the Warrick County
Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.62 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
    In passing upon such applications, the board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and;
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable.
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development,
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area.
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site.
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.63 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)    Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
151.43 or
151.45(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
151.43 or
151.45(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
151.41, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures (refer to §
151.65).
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (see §
151.64).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (see §
151.64).
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.64 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)    Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and;
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.65 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
    Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an "historic
structure" and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.66 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
    Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
151.60 through
151.66 and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach
such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further
the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
    Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding $2,500.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2017-3, passed 3-2-17)
CHAPTER 152: MINING; MINERAL EXTRACTION
Section
   
152.01   Extraction and removal prohibited
§ 152.01 EXTRACTION AND REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation, voluntary
association or any other entity to explore for, develop, produce, extract,
mine, remove and prepare for transportation any and all minerals in place in
the ground, including, but not limited to coal, oil, gas, shale and fire clay,
within the corporate limits of the City of Boonville.
(Ord. 1986-7, passed 5-15-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Adoption of regulations
   
153.02   Unified development ordinance
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   The City’s zoning regulations and map, as well as any and all amendments
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as if set out in full
herein.
(Am. Ord. 2002-1, passed 2-14-02; Am. Ord. 2002-3, passed 4-11-02; Am. Ord.
2003-5, passed 7-2-03; Am. Ord. 2004-16, passed 8-5-04; Am. Ord. 2004-20,
passed 8-5-04; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed 5-25-23; Am. Ord. 2023-14, passed 12-5-
23; Am. Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-2-24)
§ 153.02 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE.
   The Common Council hereby adopts the Boonville Unified Development Ordinance
attached to Ordinance 2024-11 as Exhibit A, which is incorporated by reference
as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 12-17-24)
CHAPTER 154: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
154.01   Title
   
154.02   Adoption of state law by reference
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Mobile homes and/or mobile home parks
   
154.05   Public nuisance
   
154.06   Authority
   
154.07   Order and notice
   
154.08   Hearing and review
   
154.09   Emergency orders
   
154.10   Manners of performance
   
154.11   Costs
   
154.12   Unsafe Building Fund
   
154.13   No work without permission
   
154.14   Inspection warrants
   
154.98   Violation
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the “Unsafe Structure Ordinance of the City of Boonville Indiana,” may
be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
§ 154.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   Indiana Code 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, now existing or as hereafter
amended, is adopted by reference as a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING.  Any building that contains one or two dwelling units used,
intended, or designed to be built, used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be
occupied, or that are occupied for living purposes.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.  Warrick County Building Inspector and Health
Inspector, City of Boonville Code Enforcement Officer or authorized designee.
   HEARING AUTHORITY.  The Board of Public Works appointed by the mayor as the
official hearing board for disputes from the rules and regulations set forth in
this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure transportable in one or more sections which,
in the traveling mode, is 8 body feet (2438 body mm) or more in width or 40
body feet (12192 body mm) or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or
more square feet (30m2), and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed
to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected
to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning
and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include
any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the
size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files
a certification required by the secretary (HUD) and complies with the standards
established under this title. For mobile homes built prior to June 15, 1976, a
label certifying compliance to the Standard for Mobile Homes, NFPA 501, ANSI
119.1, in effect at the time of manufacture is required. For the purpose of
these provisions, a mobile home shall be considered a manufactured home.
   MOBILE HOME.  A vehicle, including the equipment sold as a part of a
vehicle, that meets the following conditions:
      (1)   Is constructed for use as a conveyance upon public streets or
highways by either self-propelled or not self-propelled means.
      (2)   Is designed, constructed or reconstructed, or added to by means of
an enclosed addition or room, to permit the occupancy as a dwelling for at
least one (1) person.
      (3)   Is used and occupied as a dwelling.
      (4)   Does not have a foundation other than wheels, jacks, skirting, or
other temporary supports.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land on which at least five (5) mobile homes,
other than mobile homes on permanent foundations, are harbored on temporary
supports for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences. The term
includes the following:
      (1)   All real and personal property used in the operation of the mobile
home park.
      (2)   An area of land that is subdivided and contains individual lots
that are leased or otherwise contracted if at least five (5) mobile homes
(other than mobile homes on permanent foundations) are harbored on temporary
supports there for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a present possessory
interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
   UNSAFE BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure or part of a
building or structure that is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to person
or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to person or property because of a violation of a statute
or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance; or
      (6)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance; or
      (7)   In any of the conditions or possesses any of the defects described
below, provided that such conditions or defects exist to the extent that life,
health, property or safety of the public or its occupants are endangered;
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of
exit is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide
safe adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (b)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway
or other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as
to not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (c)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads is more than one and one half times the working
stress or stresses allowed in the building code for new buildings of similar
structure purpose or location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood or by any other cause to such an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before
such catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the building code
for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location;
         (e)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
         (f)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored I attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one half of that specified in the
building code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location
without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the building code for such
buildings;
         (g)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
         (h)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of (1) dilapidation, deterioration or decay; (2) faulty construction;
(3) the removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary
for the purpose of supporting such building; (4) the deterioration, decay or
inadequacy of its foundation; or (5) any other cause, is likely to partially or
completely collapse;
         (i)   Whenever for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
         (j)   Whenever the exterior walls, or other vertical structural
members list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing
through the center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one third () of
the base;
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows thirty-three percent (33%) or more damage or deterioration of its
supporting members or members, or fifty percent (50%) damage or deterioration
of its non-supporting members, enclosing or outside walls or coverings;
         (l)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become (1) an attractive nuisance to children, or (2) a harbor for trespassers;
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this City, specified in the Building Code of the City of Boonville or the
IRC Indiana Residential Code or any law or ordinance of this state or relating
to the condition, location or structure of building;
         (n)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-
supporting part, member or portion less than fifty percent (50%), or in any
supporting part, member or portion less than sixty-six percent (66%) of the
strength, fire resisting qualities or characteristics or weather resisting
qualities or characteristics required by law in the case of a newly constructed
building of like area, height and occupancy in the same location;
         (o)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise is determined by the Health Inspector, Building
Inspector and Code Enforcement Officer to be unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation or in such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (p)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Chief of the Fire
Department or the Building Inspector to be a fire hazard;
         (q)   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law;
         (r)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six (6) months
so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
   UNSAFE PREMISES.  Both an unsafe building and tract of real property on
which the building is located.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
§ 154.04 MOBILE HOMES AND/OR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   The following are subject to the provisions of this chapter and the I.C.
(Indiana Code).
      (1)   Valleyview Mobile Home Park
      (2)   Julian's Mobile Court
      (3)   Henry's Mobile Home Park
      (4)   Urban Village Mobile Home Park
      (5)   Any and all new Mobile Home/Trailer Parks
      (6)   Any and all rented, private or leased lots
   (A)   Mobile Home Parks are exempt from filing for an Improvement Location
Permit from the City of Boonville. Mobile Home Park Owners or the responsible
party will be required to obtain a building permit from Warrick County Building
Department.
   (B)   Mobile Homes located on residential lots in the City of Boonville will
be required to obtain an Improvement Location Permit from the City of Boonville
and a Building Permit from Warrick County Building Department.
   (C)   Supporting elements that support the unit shall be no less than 24"
inches below grade applicable to new installation.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04; Am. Ord. 2004-25, passed 11-8-04)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.05 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the city which are determined after
inspection by the Building Inspector, Health Inspector and Code Enforcement
Officer to be unsafe as defined in this chapter are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition and
removal.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.06 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector, Health Inspector and Code Enforcement Officer shall
be authorized to administer and to proceed under the provisions of this chapter
in ordering the repair or removal of any buildings found to be unsafe as
specified therein or as specified hereafter.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
§ 154.07 ORDER AND NOTICE.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, Health Inspector and Code Enforcement Officer
are authorized to issue an order relative to any unsafe premises, including:
      (1)   Shut off of any or all utilities if deemed unsafe;
      (2)   Vacating of an unsafe building;
      (3)   Sealing an unsafe building intrusion by unauthorized persons;
      (4)   Extermination of vermin in and about the unsafe premises;
      (5)   Removal of trash, debris, or fire hazardous material in and about
the unsafe premises;
      (6)   Repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building to bring it into
compliance with standards for building condition or maintenance required for
human habitation, occupancy, or use by a statue, a rule adopted under I.C. 4-
22-2, or an ordinance;
      (7)   Removal of part of unsafe building;
      (8)   Removal of an unsafe building; and
      (9)   Requiring, for an unsafe building that will be sealed for a period
of more than ninety (90) days:
         (a)   Sealing against intrusion by unauthorized persons and the
affects of weather;
         (b)   Exterior improvements to make the building compatible in
appearance with other buildings in the area; and
         (c)   Continuing maintenance and upkeep of the building and premises
in accordance with standards established by ordinance;
   (B)   The order shall contain information required by I.C. 36-7-9-5.
   (C)   An ordinance requiring sealing a building under I.C. 36-7-9-5(a)
requires notification to each person holding any fee interest or life estate;
for other, orders under I.C. 36-7-9-5 each person having a substantial property
interest in the unsafe premises must be notified. Notification procedure shall
be as stated I.C. 36-7-9-25.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.08 HEARING AND REVIEW.
   If required, a hearing and review shall be provided as set forth in I.C. 36-
7-9-7 and 36-7-9-8.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
§ 154.09 EMERGENCY ORDERS.
   Emergency action in order to protect life, safety or property may be taken
without issuing an order or giving notice, but shall be taken in accordance
with I.C. 36-7-9-9. The action is limited to removal of any immediate danger.
The city may recover costs of the action by filing suit in circuit or superior
court against persons holding fee interest or life estate in the premises at
the time. As an alternative, the city may bring a civil action under I.C. 36-7-
9-17 and 36-7-9-22, alleging the existence of unsafe premises presenting an
immediate danger to the community sufficient to warrant emergency action.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
§ 154.10 MANNERS OF PERFORMANCE.
   Manners of performance of work including bids and notification are to be in
accordance with I.C. 36-7- 9-11. All work for the reconstruction, repair, or
demolition of buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good
workmanlike manner according to the accepted standards and practices in the
trade. The provisions of the building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3,
adopted as rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission shall be
considered standard and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this
chapter or orders issued pursuant to this chapter by the Building Inspector and
Health Inspector of Warrick County and the Code Enforcement Officer of the City
of Boonville, Indiana.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
§ 154.11 COSTS.
   Costs for work performed under this chapter are the responsibility of
interest or life estate holders in the unsafe premises. Costs shall be
determined on the basis of the factors listed in I.C. 36-7-9-12. Unpaid costs
are subject to the procedures in I.C. 36-7-9-13 and 36-7-9-13-5, and may result
in a judgment, special tax assessment, and/or lien on real or personal property
or persons responsible for said costs.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
§ 154.12 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
City of Boonville in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
§ 154.13 NO WORK WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee
or occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or any order issued by the Building Inspector,
Health Inspector and Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Under no circumstance shall any person have any building service
equipment connected to the water, fuel or power supply or sewer system until
authorized by the Building Official as provided in IRC AE 305.5.3.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.14 INSPECTION WARRANTS.
   The Building Inspector and Health Inspector may obtain an inspection warrant
from the court in cases when the owner or possessor refuse the Building
Inspector, Health Inspector and Code Enforcement Officer permission to inspect
as provided in I.C. 6-7-9-16.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
§ 154.98 VIOLATION.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to (a) remain in, use,
or enter a building in violation of this chapter, (b) knowingly interfere with
or delay the carrying out of an order made under this section, (c) knowingly
obstruct, damage, or interfere with persons engaged or property used in
performing any work or duty under this chapter or (d) fail to comply with I.C.
36-7-9-27 regarding information on transfers of property interest.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter for which no other penalty
is otherwise specifically provided shall be fined two hundred fifty dollars
($250) for the first violation, three hundred fifty dollars ($350) for the
second violation and five hundred dollars ($500) for the third and each
subsequent violation. A separate offense: shall be deemed committed on each day
that a violation occurs or continues. Additionally, the violator shall be
obligated to pay all attorney fees and other costs associated with the
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-4-04)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
   
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
   
III.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
   
IV.   IMPROVEMENTS AND CONSTRUCTION
   
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
   
VI.   STREET NAME CHANGES
   
VII.   STREET VACATIONS
   
VIII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
   
IX.   STREET GRADE CHANGES
   
X.   BONDS
   
XI.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing a tract of land beginning at a point 15 feet
1922     4-20-22     north and 50 feet east of the southeast corner of Section
                     26, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the east half of
1929-1   2-5-29      the northwest quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
1936-5   3-17-36     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
                     quarter of Section 36, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1937-5   7-20-37     Annexing a tract of land being a part of the southwest
                     quarter of Section 26, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1942-2   2-17-42     Disannexing a tract of land being the north half of Block
                     11 in McCulla's partition
                     Annexing a tract of land being a part of the east half of
1953-2   10-6-53     the northeast quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being a part of the northwest
1954-4   11-16-54    quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
1956-5   8-7-56      Annexing Boonville Fairgrounds
1956-9   11-6-56     Annexing Lots 31 through 42 and Lots 55 through 66 in
                     Highland addition
                     Annexing a tract of land being a part of the southeast
1958-2   4-1-58      quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 27, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
1959-2   4-7-59      Annexing a tract of land being Lots 51 through 64 and 95
                     in Altesford subdivision
1960-4   6-21-60     Annexing a tract of land being Lots 21 through 25 in the
                     Altesford subdivision
1961-4   6-6-61      Annexing a tract of land being a part of the northwest
                     quarter of Section 36, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1963-4   4-16-63     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
                     quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
1963-10  10-15-63    quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southwest
1964-2   3-5-64      quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 26, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
1964-4   3-5-64      quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
1964-5   5-7-64      Annexing a tract of land beginning at a point 20 feet
                     north of the northwest corner of Outlot 18
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southeast
                     quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 27, part of
1964-9   8-6-64      the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section
                     34, part of the southeast quarter of Section 27, and part
                     of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of
                     Section 34, all in Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1964-16  11-19-64    Annexing a tract of land being part of the southwest
                     quarter of Section 25, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1964-17  1-21-65     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southwest
                     quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast and
1965-2   2-18-65     southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South, Range 8
                     West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1965-5   3-27-65     quarter of the southwest quarter and part of the east half
                     of the southeast quarter of Section 36, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
1965-6   3-27-65     Annexing Lots 1 through 14, 32 through 45, 68 through 94,
                     and 96 through 113, all in the Altesford subdivision
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1965-8   6-3-65      quarter of Section 35, part of the northwest quarter of
                     Section 36, and part of the southwest quarter of Section
                     36, all in Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1965-13  7-15-65     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southeast
                     quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1965-14  9-2-65      Annexing a tract of land being part of the southeast
                     quarter of Section 27, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1965-19  9-4-65      quarter of the southwest quarter and a part of the
                     northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 36,
                     Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the south half of
1965-24  10-21-65    the southeast quarter of Section 27, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
1965-23  11-4-65     quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southwest
1966-11  4-7-66      quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 36, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1966-12  4-7-66      quarter of the southwest quarter and a part of the of the
                     northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 36,
                     Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1966-19  5-19-66     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
                     quarter of Section 34, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1966-16  6-2-66      Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
                     quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of Block 15 in the
1967-9   5-18-67     south half of the west quarter of Section 35, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
1967-11  7-6-67      Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
                     quarter of Section 26, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
1968-3   3-7-68      quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 27, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being a part of the northeast
1971-17  8-19-71     quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being a part of the northeast
1971-20  9-16-71     quarter of the southwest quarter and a part of the
                     northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 36,
                     Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being a part of the northeast
1972-15  11-16-72    quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 26, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
1972-11  10-19-72    Annexing a tract of land being a part of the northeast
                     quarter of Section 26, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1973-8   9-6-73      Annexing a tract of land beginning at the center of
                     Section 32, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southwest
1974-10  8-15-74     quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the west half of
1975-3   3-6-75      the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
1975-20  12-11-75    Annexing a tract of land being Lots 1 and 35 through 41,
                     all in Section A of the Lutz Estate subdivision
1976-1   2-5-76      Annexing a tract of land being part of the southwest
                     quarter of Section 25, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southeast
                     quarter of Section 23, a part of the southwest quarter of
1976-8   7-8-76      Section 23 and a part of the northwest quarter of the
                     northeast quarter of Section 26, all in Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the west half of
1976-9   7-8-76      the southwest quarter of Section 26, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1976-11  7- -76      quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 36, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
1976-13  7-22-76     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
                     quarter of Section 2, Township 6 South, Range 8 West
–      - -76       Annexing a tract of land beginning at the northeast corner
                     of Theresa Hart's addition
                     Annexing a tract of land being a part of the northwest
1977-9   8-4-77      quarter of Section 26 and a part of the northeast quarter
                     of Section 27, both in Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1977-11  9-1-77      quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the west half of
1977-16  9- -77      the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the east half of
1977-15  10-13-77    the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the south half of
1977-17  - -77       the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being a part of the southeast
1977-18  - -77       quarter of Section 35, Township 5 South, Range 8 West, and
                     part of the north half and part of the southeast quarter
                     of Section 22, Township 6 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the south half of
                     Section 36, Township 5 South, Range 8 West, part of the
1977-19  - -77       north half of Section 1, Township 6 South, Range 8 West,
                     and part of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter
                     of Section 6, Township 6 South, Range 8 West
1977-20  11-23-77    Annexing a tract of land being part of Sections 26, 27, 34
                     and 35 in Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1977-22  11-23-77    Annexing a tract of land being part of the north half of
                     Section 36, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1978-10  5-8-78      quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 36, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
1978-9   5-25-78     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
                     quarter of Section 2, Township 6 South, Range 8 West
1978-11  5-25-78     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
                     quarter of Section 2, Township 6 South, Range 8 West
1978-19  - -78       Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
                     quarter of Section 33, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1979-2   2-1-79      Annexing a tract of land being part of the southwest
                     quarter of Section 26, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southwest
1979-9   5-24-79     quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
1979-21  7-19-79     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southeast
                     quarter of Section 27, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1979-22  7-19-79     quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1980-11  6-5-80      quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 26, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southeast
1980-13  6-5-80      quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 26, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the west half of
1980-22  8-28-80     the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
1980-26  11-6-80     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southwest
                     quarter of Section 25, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1980-27  11-6-80     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southwest
                     quarter of Section 26, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land beginning at a point 576 feet
1981-1   1-15-81     north and 398.8 feet east of the southwest corner of
                     Section 27, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Correction of land description; annexing a tract of land
1981-4   2-12-81     beginning at a point 576 feet north and 398.8 feet east of
                     the southwest corner of the southeast quarter of Section
                     27, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the west half of
1981-8   3-12-81     the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the west half of
1981-9   3-26-81     the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the west half of
1981-10  3-26-81     the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 5 South,
                     Range 8 West
1981-16  7-1-81      Annexing a tract of land being part of the southeast
                     quarter of Section 27, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1982-14  7-1-82      quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
1983-1   1-27-83     quarter of Sections 26 and 27, Township 5 South, Range 8
                     West
1984-6   3-8-84      Annexing Lots 77, 78 and 82, except 40 feet off the entire
                     north side of Lot 82, all in North Heights addition
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1985-18  9-5-85      quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southeast
1986-12  8-21-86     quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 27 and part of
                     the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section
                     34, both in Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southeast
1987-8   7-9-87      quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 26, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
1987-9   7-23-87     Annexing a tract of land being part of the south half of
                     Section 36, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
1987-10  7-23-87     quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 26, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the west half of
1988-27  10-27-88    Section 35 and the east half of Section 34, both in
                     Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the southeast
1990-18  8-27-90     quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 26, Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
1991-2   - -91       quarter of Section 26 and a part of the northeast quarter
                     of Section 27, both in Township 5 South, Range 8 West
1994-21  12-8-94     Annexing a tract of land being part of the northwest
                     quarter of Section 34, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
2004-10  7-1-04      Annexing a tract of land being part of the northeast
                     quarter of Section 2, Township 6 South, Range 8 West
                     Annexing approximately 1,165 acres being part of Section
2008-2   7-7-08      27, the east half of Section 28, the north half of Section
                     33 and the north half of Section 34, all within Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West.
                     Annexing approximately 1,165 acres being part of Section
2014-10  12-4-14     27, the east half of Section 28, the north half of Section
                     33 and the north half of Section 34, all within Township 5
                     South, Range 8 West.
                     Annexing approximately 564 acres, part of Section 5,
2017-18  1-25-18     Township 6 South, Range 8 West and a part of Section 32
                     and 33, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
2017-19  1-25-18     Annexing approximately 153 acres being part of Sections
                     26, 23, and 24, Township 5 South, Range 8 West
                    
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
1933-6       11-7-33     Agreement by the city to maintain and protect certain
                         improved streets
1-1938       3-1-38      Agreement between the city and Matson, Ross, McCord
                         and Clifford Attorneys
1941-2       6-6-41      Contract between the city and Southern Indiana
                         Electric Company
1947-9       8-29-47     Approval of contract between the city and Southern
                         Indiana Gas and Electric Company
1948-8       10-5-48     Approval of contract between the city and Boonville
                         Ice and Storage Company, Inc.
1949-5       8-16-49     Approval of contract between the city and Westinghouse
                         Electric Corporation
1949-8       10-4-49     Approval of contract between the city and M.H. Rhodes,
                         Inc., for parking meter purchase
1957-8       12-17-57    Contract between the city and the Boonville-Boon
                         Township School Corporation
                         Agreement by Southern Indiana Electric Company to
1959-3       5-5-59      supply electric energy to the city's newly annexed
                         property
1960-6       8-2-60      Authorization for contract between the city and Boon
                         Township
1961-7       9-5-61      Authorization for contract between the city and Boon
                         Township
1962-5       8-21-62     Approval of agreement between the city and Southern
                         Indiana Gas and Electric Company
1962-7       9-4-62      Authorization for contract between the city and Boon
                         Township
1963-8       9-3-63      Authorization of contract between the city and Boon
                         Township
1964-3       3-5-64      Agreement between the city and Southern Indiana Gas
                         and Electric Company
1967-6       2-16-67     Approval of a contract between the city and the Town
                         of Tennyson
1967-2       2-20-67     Approval of a contract between the city and the Town
                         of Tennyson
1971-1       3-18-71     Approval of an agreement between the city and the
                         Southern Gas and Electric Company
1972-17      12-7-72     Authorization for contract between the city and
                         Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company
1976-14      7-22-76     Approval of contract rates for Southern Indiana Gas
                         and Electric Company
1976-15      7-22-76     Approval for contract between the city and Southern
                         Indiana Gas and Electric Company
1980-29      11-6-80     Authorization of a contract between the city and Boon
                         Township
1981-29      12-17-81    Authorization of a contract between the city and Boon
                         Township
1982-33      1-13-83     Authorization of a contract between the city and Boon
                         Township
1984-1       1-12-84     Authorization of a contract between the city and Boon
                         Township
1984-17      9-20-84     Authorization of a contract between the city and Boon
                         Township
1985-21      12-12-85    Authorization of a contract between the city and Boon
                         Township
1986-13      9-4-86      Authorization of a contract between the city and Boon
                         Township
1999-3       9-23-99     Authorization of a project between the city and
                         Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company
Res. 2001-4  8-23-01     Lease agreement between the city and Boonville
                         Building Corporation
                         Adopting the addendum to the sewer agreement between
2004-31      12-22-04    the City of Boonville and Quail Crossing Community,
                         LLC
                         Requesting that the U.S. EPA defer the effective date
Res. 2004-1  4-1-04      of "Nonattainment Designation" for Warrick County,
                         Indiana until September 30, 2005
                         Authorizing Pamela Hendrickson to make application for
                         an SRF Loan and provide the Indiana Department of
                         Environmental Management such information, data and
                         documents pertaining to the loan process as may be
Res. 2004-2  9-20-04     required, and otherwise act as the authorized
                         representative of the community and agreeing to comply
                         with the Department of Environmental Management, State
                         of Indiana and Federal requirements as they pertain to
                         the SRF
Res. 2005-2  6-8-05      Entering into an agreement with Indiana Child Support
                         Bureau to process child support payments
                         Entering into an agreement with the Trustee and Board
2010-1       3-29-10     of Boon Township to establish a fire protection
                         territory
                         Approving an amendment to the interlocal agreement
Res. 2011-6  12-1-11     between the Town of Chandler, Indiana, and the City of
                         Boonville, Indiana, relating to overlapping potable
                         water service regulation areas
                         Approving and authorizing the execution of lease
Res. 2019-8  10-3-19     agreements relating to fire station, municipal storage
                         facility and park improvement projects
Res. 2021-6  4-13-21     Authorizing the entry by the city into a BOT agreement
                         and related documents
                         Approving and authorizing the execution of lease
Res. 2022-6  10-4-22     agreements relating to local public improvement
                         projects
                         Approving and authorizing the execution of lease
Res. 2023-9  11-9-23     agreements relating to local public improvement
                         projects
                         Approving and authorizing the execution of lease
Res. 2024-9  10-1-24     agreements relating to local public improvement
                         projects
Res. 2024-10 11-19-24    Awarding public-private agreement for parks facilities
                        
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1922     5-29-22     Granting an improvement franchise to Southern Railway
                     Company
1930-5   10-7-30     Granting a gas distribution franchise to the Indiana-
                     Kentucky Natural Gas Corporation
1933-4   5-16-33     Granting a gas distribution franchise to Boonville Natural
                     Gas Corporation
1955-14  12-27-55    Granting a gas distribution franchise to Boonville Natural
                     Gas Corporation
1958-3   6-3-58      Granting a centennial celebration franchise to the
                     Boonville Centennial Celebration Corporation
1965-27  12-30-65    Amending franchise agreement with Southern Indiana Gas and
                     Electric Company
1966-8   3-3-66      Approving and confirming a franchise between the city and
                     All Channel Cablevision, Inc.
1987-15  9-3-87      Granting a cable television franchise to Horizon Tele-
                     Communications, Inc.
1988-37  2-2-89      Granting a cable television franchise to TCI of Indiana,
                     Inc.
2004-24  10-13-04    Granting a franchise to Insight Communications Midwest,
                     LLC for the construction and operation of a cable system.
2005-11  12-19-05    Granting a franchise to Sigecom, LLC for the construction
                     and operation of a cable system
 
TABLE IV: IMPROVEMENTS AND CONSTRUCTION
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
1922        4-18-22     Improvement of Third Street
1954-3      8-19-54     Financing and construction of sewage treatment works
1956-2      6-5-56      Construction of extensions, additions and improvements
                        to city waterworks
1965-21     9-16-65     Construction of extensions, additions and improvements
                        to city waterworks
1966-2      2-3-66      Construction of extensions, additions and improvements
                        to city waterworks
1966-17     5-19-66     Construction of extensions, additions and improvements
                        to city waterworks
1976-5      4-1-76      Construction of extensions, additions and improvements
                        to city waterworks
                        Approving and adopting the Preliminary Engineering
Res. 2004-3 9-20-04     Report dated August 2004 and submitting same to the
                        Indiana Department of Environmental Management for
                        review and approval
Res. 2019-5 6-6-19   Establishing regional economic and community
                        development improvement projects
                       
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
–          5-19-25     Sale of waterworks plant
1925         9-1-25      Purchase and acquisition of waterworks
1925-11      12-29-25    Purchase of waterworks plant and system
1955-10      7-5-55      Purchase of firefighting equipment
1965-3       3-4-65      Purchase of parking meters
1965-10      6-17-65     Purchase and acquisition of electric utility
1981-21      7-30-81     Purchase of certain electric property
1982-2       3-11-82     Purchase of certain electric property
                         Transfer of certain real estate located in Warrick
Res. 2007-3  11-6-07     County, Indiana to the Department of Parks and
                         Recreation
Res. 2019-2  2-27-19     Granting a lease of the Boonville Airport
                         Transfer of certain real estate, a part of Outlot C of
Res. 2021-8  8-3-21      Quail Crossing Golf Club Outlots, to the Boonville
                         Redevelopment Commission
                         Transfer of certain real estate, a part of the east
Res. 2021-10 9-7-21      half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 6
                         South, Range 8 West, to the Boonville Redevelopment
                         Commission
                         Transfer of certain real estate, part of the east half
Res. 2021-14 11-16-21    of Section 35, Township 5 South, Range 8 West, to the
                         Boonville Redevelopment Commission
                         Transfer of certain real estate, part of the east half
Res. 2023-10 12-5-23     of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 6
                         South, Range 8 West, to the Boonville Redevelopment
                         Commission
                        
 
TABLE VI: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Changing the name of Hammond Avenue to West Moore Street;
                     South Second Street to Hammond Avenue; South First Street
                     to Wilson Avenue; Yankeetown Road to South Second Street;
                     East Mill Street to East Elm Street; Gough Avenue to East
1929-4   10- -29     Sycamore Street; North and South Eighth streets to North
                     and South Kentucky avenues; Taylor Street to East Gum
                     Street; Standpipe Alley to East Mulberry Street; a certain
                     street to East high Street; and an unnamed street to North
                     Flint Street
 
TABLE VII: STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1993- 3-25-  Vacating an alley between Lots 75 and 76 of the original plat
5     93
1994- 7-27-  Vacating a public way
12    94
1996- 7-25-  Vacating an alley being part of Lot 26
3     96
1996- 9-26-  Vacating an alley
5     96
2004- 1-5-04 Vacating a public utility easement being a part of Lots 13 and 14
1
2015- 3-11-  Vacating a public utility easement be a part of Lots 36 and 37
3     15
2018- 11-1-  Vacating a portion of a platted alley in Hatfield’s and Hammond’s
15    18     Addition
2021- 12-7-  Vacating rights-of-way in the North Heights Addition
18    21
2022- 10-4-  Vacating a portion of Chestnut Street
14    22
2023- 12-5-  Vacating rights-of-way in the Geyerwood Subdivision
12    23
2023- 12-5-  Vacating rights-of-way in the North Heights Addition
13    23
            
 
TABLE VIII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1966-21  7-21-66     Rezoning a tract of land from M-1 to M-2
1968-1   2-1-68      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-15
1968-7   5-2-68      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 and M-1 to M-2
1968-13  9-19-68     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1971-14  8-19-71     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-15
1972-9   9-7-72      Rezoning a tract of land from residential to B-1
1972-14  11-16-72    Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to M-1
1973-2   5-3-73      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-15
1973-10  10-18-73    Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1974-2   3-7-74      Rezoning a tract of land from R-20 to B-2
1974-3   3-7-74      Rezoning a tract of land from R-15 and R-20 to B-2
1974-4   3-7-74      Rezoning a tract of land from B-1 to M-2
1974-13  10-3-74     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to M-2
1974-14  10-3-74     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-20
1974-15  10-3-74     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to R-20
1974-16  10-3-74     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to M-2
1975-12  8-7-75      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1976-18  8-19-76     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to M-2
1976-19  8-19-76     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1976-20  8-19-76     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1976-21  8-19-76     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1976-22  8-19-76     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to R-5
–      11-23-77    Rezoning a tract of land from A to M-2
1977-26  11-14-77    Rezoning a tract of land from R-20 to B-2
1977-27  11-14-77    Rezoning a tract of land from B-1 to B-3
1978-7   4-13-78     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-20
1978-8   4-13-78     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1978-12  5-25-78     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1978-14  7-6-78      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-20
1978-15  7-25-78     Rezoning a tract of land from B-1 to B-3
1978-18  11-9-78     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-20
1978-20  10-26-78    Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-2
1979-1   2-1-79      Rezoning a tract of land from B-2 to B-3
1979-3   3-1-79      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-7
1979-4   3-1-79      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to M-2
1979-5   3-1-79      Rezoning a tract of land from R-20 to B-1
1979.15  5-24-79     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-3
1979-16  - -79       Rezoning a tract of land from M-1 to B-3
1979-17  5-24-79     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-20
1979-18  7-5-79      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-7
1979-31  9-12-79     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to M-1
1979-32  9-13-79     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-15
1980-1   1-17-80     Rezoning a tract of land from B-2 to M-1
1980-4   1-17-80     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-3
1980-6   2-28-80     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to M-1
1980-7   2-28-80     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1980-8   3-13-80     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1980-17  7-17-80     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1980-23  9-25-80     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to M-2
1980-24  9-25-80     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1980-30  11-20-80    Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1980-31  11-20-80    Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to M-1
1981-2   1-15-81     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-20
1981-5   2-12-81     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-20
1981-6   2-12-81     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1981-7   2- -81      Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1981-17  7-16-81     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1981-19  7-30-81     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-3
1981-20  7-30-81     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1981-30  12-30-81    Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1982-1   1-14-82     Rezoning a tract of land from B-2 to M-1
1982-3   4-8-82      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1982-4   4-8-82      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1982-11  5-20-82     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1982-18  7-29-82     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1982-26  11-4-82     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to R-15
1982-27  11-4-82     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to BH
1982-29  11-18-82    Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-15
1982-30  11-18-82    Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1982-32  12-16-82    Rezoning a tract of land from R-15 to R-20
1983-2   2-10-83     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-20
1983-3   3-24-83     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1983-4   5-5-83      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-20
1983-6   6-2-83      Rezoning a tract of land from R-15 to B-2
1983-9   8-25-83     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to M-1
1983-14  9-22-83     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to R-15
1983-17  11-17-83    Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-7
1984-3   1-26-84     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-2
1984-8   5-3-84      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-20
1984-9   5-16-84     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-15
1984-12  7-26-84     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R-7
1984-13  8-23-84     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1984-16  9-20-84     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-3
1984-18  10-4-84     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-3
1984-22  11-29-84    Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-3
1985-4   3-7-85      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1985-5   3-7-85      Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1985-6   3-21-85     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to R-20
1985-10  5-30-85     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to R-15
1985-11  5-30-85     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-3
1985-16  8-22-85     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-3
1985-19  10-17-85    Rezoning a tract of land from B-2 to B-3
1986-1   2-6-86      Rezoning a tract of land from B-1 to M-2
1986-3   3-6-86      Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-2
1986-5   4-17-86     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1986-6   4-17-86     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to R-20
1986-13  10-21-86    Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1986-15  11-13-86    Rezoning a tract of land from R-20 to B-1
1986-16  11-25-86    Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-2
1987-1   2-5-87      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1987-2   2-19-87     Rezoning a tract of land from R-20 to B-1
1987-4   2-19-87     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1987-12  7-23-87     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1987-14  9-3-87      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1987-19  10-29-87    Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-3
1988-5   2-24-88     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to R-2
1988-18  - -88       Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1988-19  - -88       Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1988-21  - -88       Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1988-29  8-25-88     Rezoning a tract of land from R-20 to R/O
1988-30  8-25-88     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1988-31  8-25-88     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1988-34  10-13-88    Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1989-1   1-12-89     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to R/O
1989-13  6-8-89      Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1989-16  7-6-89      Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1989-18  8-24-89     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-2
1990-5   3-1-90      Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-2
1990-19  10-11-90    Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to M-2
1991-10  12-5-91     Rezoning a tract of land from R-20 to B-2
1992-3   3-12-92     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1992-7   7-16-92     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1992-11  - -92       Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to M-2
1992-13  7-16-92     Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1992-12  7-30-92     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to R/O
1992-23  - -92       Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-2
1992-26  - -92       Rezoning a tract of land from R-15 to B-3
1992-27  - -92       Rezoning a tract of land from R-20 to B-2
1992-29  - -92       Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-3
1992-31  - -92       Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-3
1992-33  - -92       Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-2
1993-14  5-27-93     Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1993-22  - -93       Rezoning a tract of land from R-5 to B-1
1993-23  - -93       Rezoning a tract of land from R-7 to B-1
1997-3   4-24-97     Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to R-2
1997-4   3-25-97     Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to C-1
1997-13  6-26-97     Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to R-2
1997-14  10-9-97     Rezoning a tract of land from C-1 to C-2
1997-16  12-18-97    Rezoning a tract of land from C-1 to I-1
1998-2   4-9-98      Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to C-1
1998-9   7-6-98      Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to R-2
1998-11  7-6-98      Rezoning a tract of land from R-2 to C-2
1998-24  12-22-98    Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to R-2
1999-8   7-20-99     Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to R-2
1999-14  8-26-99     Rezoning a tract of land from C-2 to I-1
2000-5   5-11-00     Rezoning a tract of land from C-1 to C-2
2001-2   5-10-01     Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to R-2
2001-3   5-10-01     Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to R-2
2007-8   7-5-07      Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to R-2
2007-16  12-6-07     Rezoning a tract of land from C-1 to R-1
2015-8   11-5-15     Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to R-2
2016-12  10-20-16    Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to R-2
2016-13  10-20-16    Rezoning a tract of land from A to C-2
2017-11  7-19-17     Rezoning a tract of land from A to C-2
2024-2   2-6-24      Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to C-1
2024-10  12-17-24    Rezoning a tract of land from R-1 to PUD/R-1
                    
 
TABLE IX: STREET GRADE CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1932-1   5-17-32     Changing the grade of sidewalk on the north side of Walnut
                     Street from First Street to Second Street
 
TABLE X: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date     Description
No.   Passed
               Authorizing the issuance of sewage works revenue bonds; providing for the
2000-          collection, segregation and distribution of the revenues; the pledge of SIGECO
6     5-19-00  payments; the safeguarding of the interest of the owners of the revenue bonds;
               other matters connected therewith and including the issuance of notes in
               anticipation of bonds
               Authorizing the issuance of sewage works revenue bonds; providing for the
2001-          collection, segregation and distribution of the revenues; the pledge of SIGECO
8     6-21-01  payments; the safeguarding of the interest of the owners of the revenue bonds;
               other matters connected therewith and including the issuance of notes in
               anticipation of bonds
Res.           Authorizing the issuance by the City of its Sewage Works Revenues Bonds of 2000,
2001- 6-14-01  dated June 30, 2000 (“Bonds”), in the total aggregate principal amount of
2              $81,100,000
Res.           Affirming that the Pledged SIGECO Payments shall continue to mean the amount of
2001- 10-11-01 the total annual SIGECO Payments less any gross income tax
5
2001- 10-11-01 Approving the sale of Economic Development Income Tax Rental Bonds of 2001 to
15             the SRF Program, in the aggregate principal amount of $8,060,000
2003- 10-6-03  Approving the refunding of Sewage Works Refunding Revenue Bonds of 1994 and
11             authorizing the issuance of Sewage Works Revenue Bonds
2005-          Authorizing the issuance of waterworks revenue bonds for the purpose of
8     8-8-05   providing funds to pay the cost of certain additions, extensions and
               improvements to the municipal waterworks of the city
2006-          Amending Ordinance 2005-8 and authorizing the issuance of waterworks revenue
1     1-9-06   bonds for the purpose of providing funds to pay the cost of certain additions,
               extensions and improvements to the municipal waterworks of the city
2008-          Authorizing the issuance of waterworks revenue bonds for the purpose of
3     5-8-08   providing funds to pay the cost of certain additions, extensions, and
               improvements to the municipal waterworks of the City
2008-          Authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds of the City for the purpose of
14    1-2-09   providing funds to be applied on the cost of the construction of certain water
               improvements
2009-          Authorizing the issuance of waterworks revenue bonds for the purpose of
7     4-13-09  providing funds to pay the cost of certain additions, extensions, and
               improvements to the municipal waterworks of the City
2010-          Authorizing the issuance of sewage works revenue bonds for the purpose of
10    11-4-10  providing funds to pay the cost of certain additions, extensions, and
               improvements to the municipal sewage works of the City
2010-          Amending Ordinance No. 2010-10, which authorized the issuance of Sewage Works
12    12- -10  Revenue Bonds, to increase the maximum aggregate principle amount of the
               refunding bonds to an amount not to exceed $1,500,000
2012- 11-1-12  Approving the refunding of the Boonville Building Corporation’s outstanding
12             economic development income tax lease rental bonds of 2001
2012-          Authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds for the purpose of providing funds to
19    12-13-12 be applied on the cost of the current refunding of the City’s outstanding Bond
               Anticipation Notes of 2010
2012-          Amending Ordinance No. 2012-19 authorizing the issuance of the City’s annual
21    12-24-12 appropriation General Revenue Bonds of 2012, to allow the purchase price to be
               not less than 98% of their par value
               Approving the refunding by the City of its waterworks revenue bonds of 2006;
2013- 12-18-13 authorizing the issuance of waterworks refunding revenue bonds; and providing
11             for the collection, segregation, and distribution of the revenues of the
               waterworks
2013-          Amending Ordinance No. 2013-11 in connection with the City’s issuance of
12    12-18-13 waterworks refunding revenue bonds to refund its outstanding waterworks revenue
               bonds of 2006
Res.           Authorizing the issuance of bonds for the purpose of providing funds to be
2015- 11-17-15 applied to pay for local public improvements in the district
1
Res.
2015- 12-3-15  Approving the issuance of bonds of the city’s Redevelopment District
8
2015-          Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds for the purpose of
10    11-16-15 providing funds to pay the costs of local municipal public improvement projects
               with the city
2015- 12-3-15  Authorizing the appropriation of the proceeds of the general obligation bonds
12
2016-          Concerning the issuance of sewage works revenue bonds for the purpose of
14    11-9-16  providing funds to pay the cost of certain additions, extensions, and
               improvements to the municipal sewage works of the City
Res.           Recommending to the Common Council the approval of the issuance of waterworks
2017- 11-22-17 revenue bonds and bond anticipation notes to finance additions and improvements
1              to the waterworks
2017- 8-3-17   Approving the issuance of bonds of the city’s Park District
10
2017- 12-7-17  Concerning the construction of additions and improvements to the waterworks, the
22             issuance of revenue bonds to provide the cost thereof
Res.
2018- 9-6-18   Approving the issuance of bonds to the Redevelopment District
8
2018- 9-6-     Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds for the purpose of
10    18    providing funds to pay the costs of local municipal public improvement projects
2019-          Amending Ordinance No. 2016-14 in connection with the city’s issuance of sewage
3     7-11-19  works revenue bonds and bond anticipation notes to finance additions and
               improvements to the sewage works
2019-          Concerning the refunding of the city’s waterworks revenue bonds of 2009 and
13    10-14-19 waterworks refunding revenue bonds, series 2013, authorizing the issuance of
               waterworks refunding revenue bonds for such purpose
               Approving the issuance and sale of special taxing district bonds by the city,
2020- 6-4-20   for and on behalf of the Park and Recreation District of the city, to provide
3              for the financing of certain improvements to park facilities and refunding of
               certain outstanding park district bond anticipation notes
Res.           Preliminarily approving proceeding with the plan of financing for refunding
2020- 12-8-20  certain outstanding obligations of the city and providing additional funding for
10             projects
               Approving and authorizing the execution of lease agreements relating to the
2021- 1-12-21  financing and refinancing of municipal water, sewer and related improvements and
1              the pledge of local income tax revenues to the Redevelopment Commission in
               connection therewith
2021- 4-27-21  Amending Ordinance No. 2017-22 in connection with the city’s issuance of
9              waterworks revenue bonds and bond anticipation notes
Res.
2021- 10-4-21  Approving the issuance of bonds of the Redevelopment District
11
2021-          Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds for the purpose of
12    10-4-21  providing funds to pay the costs of local municipal public improvement projects
               within the city
2021- 10-4-21  Appropriation of the proceeds of the general obligation bonds
13
2022-          Amending Ordinance No. 2017-22, as amended by Ordinance No. 2021-9, in
4     4-5-22   connection with the city’s issuance of waterworks revenue bonds and bond
               anticipation notes
2023-          Approving the pledge of public safety local income tax revenues to the
6     6-6-23   Redevelopment Commission as additional security for lease rental revenue bonds,
               the proceeds of which funded in part certain public safety projects
              
 
TABLE XI: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
 
Ord. No.           Date Passed Description
                               Amending the Capital Improvement Plan to include
                               the Refunding and to extend the term of the
Exec. Order 2001-1 8-13-01     Capital Improvement Plan until all lease rentals
                               due under the Lease to accomplish the Refunding
                               and which are payable from up to $525,000 of the
                               Distributive Share have been paid
                               Approving the incorporation of the corporation
                               to be known and designated as the Boonville
2001-13            9-13-01     Building Corporation for the purpose of
                               financing the remaining portion of the
                               wastewater treatment facility
                               Amending the Capital Improvement Plan and
                               specifying uses of revenue from the County
2007-15            10-4-07     Economic Development Income Tax (EDIT) funds as
                               imposed under I.C.6-3.5-7 as amended from time
                               to time for the period of January 1, 2007
                               through December 31, 2011
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Executive Orders
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section       Code Section
1-1-1-5            10.04
1-1-1-7            10.12
1-1-1-8            10.06
1-1-4-5            10.05
1-1-5-1            10.11
1-1-6-1            10.08
1-1-7-1         94.01
3-8-6-3            53.05
4-22-2             154.07
5-4-1              32.07
5-14-3             33.86
5-16-13            33.88
5-16-13-12         33.80
6-1-5-4            31.04
6-3.5-7            T.S.O. XI
6-3.5-10-2(c)      35.01
6-3.5-10-2(e)      35.01
6-3.5-11-2(c)      35.01
6-3.5-11-2(d)      35.02
6-7-9-16           154.14
8-1-26             50.03
8-1.5-3-3          32.08
8-1.5-3-4(a)       32.08
8-1.5-3-9.1        53.05
8-1.5-5            32.08
8-1.5-5-6          32.08
8-1.5-5-7          32.08
8-1.5-5-7(c)       32.08   
8-23-30            35.01,
                   35.02
9-13-2             90.01
9-13-2-196         71.05
9-22-1             90.01,
                   90.02
10-14-3-12         30.03
10-14-3-29         30.03
14-8-2-185         74.01
14-8-2-233.5       74.01
14-16-1 et seq.    74.02
14-28-1            151.43
14-28-1-26         151.43
22-9-1-4 et seq.   91.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.   91.01
22-9.5-1-2         91.02
22-9.5-2-2         91.02
22-9.5-2-3         91.02
22-9.5-2-4         91.02
22-9.5-2-8         91.02
22-9.5-2-9         91.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)     91.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)     91.02
22-9.5-2-10        91.02
22-9.5-2-11        91.02
22-9.5-2-13        91.02
22-9.5-3           91.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.   91.10
22-9.5-4-8         91.11
22-9.5-4-8         91.10
22-9.5-5           91.02
22-9.5-5-1         91.03
22-9.5-6           91.02,
                   91.11
22-12-1-3          154.10
22-12-1-17         130.07
31-6-4-15.7        130.05
31-37-19-27        130.05
34-28-5            130.06
34-28-5-4          130.06
36-1-3-1           130.06
36-1-3-8(a)(10)    10.99,
                   130.99
36-1-12            33.88
36-1-12-3(b)       33.80
36-1-12-4          33.84
36-1-20.2          31.04
36-1-21            31.04
36-4-6-14(b)       53.02
36-4-8-14          31.01
36-7-4             151.01
36-7-9-1—36-7-9-2154.02
36-7-9-5           154.07
36-7-9-5(a)        154.07
36-7-9-7           154.08
36-7-9-8           154.08
36-7-9-9           154.09
36-7-9-11          154.10
36-7-9-12          154.11
36-7-9-13          154.11
36-7-9-13-5        154.11
36-7-9-14          154.12
36-7-9-17          154.09
36-7-9-22          154.09
36-7-9-25          154.07
36-7-9-27          154.98
36-7-14-6.1        32.06
36-7-14-7          32.06
36-7-23            35.02
36-10-3            32.01
                   
 
REFERENCES TO EXECUTIVE ORDERS
 
Exec. Order. No. Date Passed Code Section
2001-1           8-13-01     T.S.O. XI
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2001-2   6-14-01     T.S.O. X
2001-4   8-23-01     T.S.O. II
2001-5   10-11-01    T.S.O. X
2004-1   4-1-04      T.S.O. II
2004-2   9-20-04     T.S.O. II
2004-3   9-20-04     T.S.O. IV
2005-2   6-8-05      T.S.O. II
2007-3   11-6-07     T.S.O. V
2011-6   12-1-11     T.S.O. II
2012-12  11-1-12     T.S.O. X
2015-1   11-17-15    T.S.O. X
2015-8   12-3-15     T.S.O. X
2016-9   8-4-16      33.95
2017-1   11-22-17    T.S.O. X
2018-8   9-6-18   T.S.O. X
2019-2   2-27-19     T.S.O. V
2019-5   6-6-19      T.S.O. IV
2019-8   10-3-19     T.S.O. II
2020-10  12-8-20     T.S.O. X
2021-6   4-13-21     T.S.O. II
2021-8   8-3-21      T.S.O. V
2021-9   9-7-21      30.03
2021-10  9-7-21      T.S.O. V
2021-11  10-4-21     T.S.O. X
2021-14  11-16-21    T.S.O. V
2022-6   10-4-22     T.S.O. II
2023-9   11-9-23     T.S.O. II
2023-10  12-5-23     T.S.O. V
2024-9   10-1-24     T.S.O. II
2024-10  11-19-24    T.S.O. II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1922     4-18-22     T.S.O. IV
1922     4-20-22     T.S.O. I
1922     5-29-22     T.S.O. III
1992     9-19-22     70.02
1924     1-8-24      70.03
–      5-19-25     T.S.O. V
1925     9-1-25      T.S.O. V
1925-11  12-29-25    T.S.O. V
1929-1   2-5-29      T.S.O. I
1929-4   10- -29     T.S.O. VI
1930-5   10-7-30     T.S.O. III
1932-1   5-17-32     T.S.O. IX
1933-4   5-16-33     T.S.O. III
1933-6   11-7-33     T.S.O. II
1934-6   7-3-34      110.02
1936-5   3-17-36     T.S.O. I
1937-5   7-20-37     T.S.O. I
1-1938   3-1-38      T.S.O. II
1941-2   6-6-41      T.S.O. II
1942-2   2-17-42     T.S.O. I
1947-7   7-1-47      Ch. 73, Sch. II
1947-9   8-29-47     T.S.O. II
1948-8   10-5-48     T.S.O. II
1949-5   8-16-49     T.S.O. II
1949-8   10-4-49     T.S.O. II
1950-1   6-6-50      93.01
1953-2   10-6-53     T.S.O. I
1954-1   2-16-54     71.07
1954-3   8-19-54     T.S.O. IV
1954-4   11-16-54    T.S.O. I
1955-7   5-24-55     70.01
1955-10  7-5-55      T.S.O. V
1955-14  12-27-55    T.S.O. III
1956-2   6-5-56      T.S.O. IV
1956-5   8-7-56      T.S.O. I
1956-9   11-6-56     T.S.O. I
1956-10  1-1-57      110.01
1957-8   12-17-57    T.S.O. II
1958-2   4-1-58      T.S.O. I
1958-3   6-3-58      T.S.O. III
1959-2   4-7-59      T.S.O. I
1959-3   5-5-59      T.S.O. II
1960-4   6-21-60     T.S.O. I
1960-3   7-5-60      32.04
1960-6   8-2-60      T.S.O. II
1960-8   9-20-60     Ch. 73, Sch. III
1961-4   6-6-61      T.S.O. I
1961-7   9-5-61      T.S.O. II
1962-3   8-21-62     Ch. 73, Sch. IV;
                     T.S.O. II
1962-7   9-4-62      T.S.O. II
1963-1   3-19-63     31.03
1963-3   4-16-63     93.08
1963-4   4-16-63     T.S.O. I
1963-8   9-3-63      T.S.O. II
1963-10  10-15-63    T.S.O. I
1964-2   3-5-64      T.S.O. I
1964-3   3-5-64      T.S.O. II
1964-4   3-5-64      T.S.O. I
1964-5   5-7-64      T.S.O. I
1964-8   6-16-64     32.05
1964-7   6-18-64     Ch. 73, Sch. I
1964-10  7-2-64      32.03
1964-9   8-6-64      T.S.O. I
1964-16  11-19-64    T.S.O. I
1964-17  1-21-65     T.S.O. I
1965-2   2-18-65     T.S.O. I
1965-3   3-4-65      T.S.O. V
1965-4   3-18-65     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1965-5   3-27-65     T.S.O. I
1965-6   3-27-65     T.S.O. I
1965-9   5-6-65      Ch. 72, Sch. I
1965-8   6-3-65      T.S.O. I
1965-10  6-17-65     T.S.O. V
1965-13  7-15-65     T.S.O. I
1965-14  9-2-65      T.S.O. I
1965-19  9-4-65      T.S.O. I
1965-21  9-16-65     T.S.O. IV
1965-24  10-21-65    T.S.O. I
1965-23  11-4-65     T.S.O. I
1965-27  12-30-65    T.S.O. III
1965-26  1-20-66     Ch. 72, Sch. V;
                     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1966-1   2-3-66      130.04
1966-2   2-3-66      T.S.O. IV
1966-7   3-3-66      Ch. 72, Sch. I
1966-8   3-3-66      T.S.O. III
1966-10  4-7-66      Ch. 72, Sch. I
1966-11  4-7-66      T.S.O. I
1966-12  4-7-66      T.S.O. I
1966-17  5-19-66     T.S.O. IV
1966-19  5-19-66     T.S.O. I
1966-16  6-2-66      T.S.O. I
1966-20  6-16-66     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1966-21  7-21-66     T.S.O. VIII
1966     9-6-66      50.02
1967-1   1-19-67     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1967-2   1-19-67     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1967-4   1-19-67     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1967-6   2-16-67     T.S.O. II
1967-2   2-20-67     T.S.O. II
1967-9   5-18-67     T.S.O. I
1967-11  7-6-67      T.S.O. I
1967-12  7-6-67      95.01 -
                     95.06
1968-1   2-1-68      T.S.O. VIII
1968-3   3-7-68      T.S.O. I
1968-5   4-4-68      Ch. 72, Sch. I
1968-7   5-2-68      T.S.O. VIII
1968-9   8-1-68      51.14
1968-13  9-19-68     T.S.O. VIII
                     Ch. 72, Schs.
1969-3   3-6-69      I,
                     III,
                     V
1969-11  10-2-69     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1969-13  11-20-69    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1970-5   6-4-70      94.01 -
                     94.04
                     93.02 -
1970-10  10-1-70     93.07,
                     93.09
1971-1   3-18-71     T.S.O. II
1971-10  5-20-71     112.01
1971-14  8-19-71     T.S.O. VIII
1971-17  8-19-71     T.S.O. I
1971-18  9-16-71     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1971-20  9-16-71     T.S.O. I
1971-21  10-7-71     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1972-2   5-4-72      130.02
1972-9   9-7-72      T.S.O. VIII
1972-10  9-21-72     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1972-11  10-19-72    T.S.O. I
1972-13  10-19-72    Ch. 72, Sch. I
1972-14  11-16-72    T.S.O. VIII
1972-15  11-16-72    T.S.O. I
1972-17  12-7-72     T.S.O. II
1973-2   5-3-73      T.S.O. VIII
1973-4   5-17-73     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1973-8   9-6-73      T.S.O. I
1973-9   9-20-73     32.02
1973-10  10-18-73    T.S.O. VIII
1974-1   - -         Ch. 72, Sch. V
1974-2   3-7-74      T.S.O. VIII
1974-3   3-7-74      T.S.O. VIII
1974-4   3-7-74      T.S.O. VIII
1974-5   3-7-74      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1974-6   4-4-74      Ch. 72, Sch. I
1974-10  8-15-74     T.S.O. I
1974-13  10-3-74     T.S.O. VIII
1974-14  10-3-74     T.S.O. VIII
1974-15  10-3-74     T.S.O. VIII
1974-16  10-3-74     T.S.O. VIII
1975-3   3-6-75      T.S.O. I
1975-6   4-3-75      Ch. 72, Sch. I
1975-8   5-1-75      Ch. 72, Sch. I
1975-12  8-7-75      T.S.O. VIII
                     Ch. 72, Schs.
1975-15  10-2-75     I,
                     III
1975-20  12-11-75    T.S.O. I
–      - -76       T.S.O. I
1976-1   2-5-76      T.S.O. I
1976-5   4-1-76      T.S.O. IV
1976-11  7- -76      T.S.O. I
1976-8   7-8-76      T.S.O. I
1976-9   7-8-76      T.S.O. I
1976-12  7-22-76     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1976-13  7-22-76     T.S.O. I
1976-14  7-22-76     T.S.O. II
1976-15  7-22-76     T.S.O. II
1976-18  8-19-76     T.S.O. VIII
1976-19  8-19-76     T.S.O. VIII
1976-20  8-19-76     T.S.O. VIII
1976-21  8-19-76     T.S.O. VIII
1976-22  8-19-76     T.S.O. VIII
1976-25  10-28-76    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1977-17  - -77       T.S.O. I
1977-9   8-4-77      T.S.O. I
1977-16  9- -77      T.S.O. I
1977-11  9-1-77      T.S.O. I
1977-14  9-15-77     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1977-15  10-13-77    T.S.O. I
1977-18  - -77       T.S.O. I
1977-19  - -77       T.S.O. I
1977-26  11-14-77    T.S.O. VIII
1977-27  11-14-77    T.S.O. VIII
–      11-23-77    T.S.O. VIII
1977-20  11-23-77    T.S.O. I
1977-22  11-23-77    T.S.O. I
                     53.04,
1978-1   2-2-78      53.15 -
                     53.24
1978-3   2-16-78     55.01
1978-6   - -         Ch. 72, Sch. V
1978-7   4-13-78     T.S.O. VIII
1978-8   4-13-78     T.S.O. VIII
1978-10  5-8-78      T.S.O. I
1978-9   5-25-78     T.S.O. I
1978-11  5-25-78     T.S.O. I
1978-12  5-25-78     T.S.O. VIII
1978-14  7-6-78      T.S.O. VIII
1978-15  7-25-78     T.S.O. VIII
1978-19  - -78       T.S.O. I
1978-20  10-26-78    T.S.O. VIII
1978-18  11-9-78     T.S.O. VIII
1979-1   2-1-79      T.S.O. VIII
1979-2   2-1-79      T.S.O. I
1979-3   3-1-79      T.S.O. VIII
1979-4   3-1-79      T.S.O. VIII
1979-5   3-1-79      T.S.O. VIII
1979-15  5-24-79     T.S.O. VIII
1979-16  - -79       T.S.O. VIII
1979-17  5-24-79     T.S.O. VIII
1979-9   6-7-79      92.01
1979-18  7-5-79      T.S.O. VIII
1979-21  7-19-79     T.S.O. I
1979-22  7-19-79     T.S.O. I
1979-31  9-12-79     T.S.O. VIII
1979-32  9-13-79     T.S.O. VIII
1980-1   1-17-80     T.S.O. VIII
1980-4   1-17-80     T.S.O. VIII
1980-5   1-17-80     31.02
1980-1   2-14-80     95.20 -
                     95.23
1980-6   2-28-80     T.S.O. VIII
1980-7   2-28-80     T.S.O. VIII
1980-8   3-13-80     T.S.O. VIII
1980-11  6-5-80      T.S.O. I
1980-12  6-5-80      71.06
1980-13  6-5-80      T.S.O. I
1980-17  7-17-80     T.S.O. VIII
1980-22  8-28-80     T.S.O. I
1980-23  9-25-80     T.S.O. VIII
1980-24  9-25-80     T.S.O. VIII
1980-21  11-6-80     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1980-26  11-6-80     T.S.O. I
1980-27  11-6-80     T.S.O. I
1980-29  11-6-80     T.S.O. II
1980-30  11-20-80    T.S.O. VIII
1980-31  11-20-80    T.S.O. VIII
                     55.15 -
1980-35  12-18-80    55.29,
                     55.40 -
                     55.46
1981-1   1-15-81     T.S.O. I
1981-2   1-15-81     71.06,
                     T.S.O. VIII
1981-7   2- -81      T.S.O. VIII
1981-4   2-12-81     T.S.O. I
1981-5   2-12-81     T.S.O. VIII
1981-6   2-12-81     T.S.O. VIII
1981-8   3-12-81     T.S.O. I
1981-9   3-26-81     T.S.O. I
1981-10  3-26-81     T.S.O. I
1981-15  7-1-81      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1981-16  7-1-81      T.S.O. I
1981-17  7-16-81     T.S.O. VIII
1981-19  7-30-81     T.S.O. VIII
1981-20  7-30-81     T.S.O. VIII
1981-21  7-30-81     T.S.O. V
1981-25  10-8-81     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1981-29  12-17-81    T.S.O. II
1981-30  12-30-81    T.S.O. VIII
1982-1   1-14-82     T.S.O. VIII
1982-2   3-11-82     T.S.O. V
1982-3   4-8-82      T.S.O. VIII
1982-4   4-8-82      T.S.O. VIII
1982-11  5-20-82     T.S.O. VIII
1982-10  6-3-82      Ch. 72, Sch. II
1982-14  7-1-82      T.S.O. I
1982-18  7-29-82     T.S.O. VIII
1982-24  10-7-82     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1982-26  11-4-82     T.S.O. VIII
1982-27  11-4-82     T.S.O. VIII
                     Ch. 73, Schs.
1982-28  11-4-82     I,
                     IV
1982-29  11-18-82    T.S.O. VIII
1982-30  11-18-82    T.S.O. VIII
1982-32  12-16-82    T.S.O. VIII
1982-33  1-13-83     T.S.O. II
1983-1   1-27-83     T.S.O. I
1983-2   2-10-83     T.S.O. VIII
1983-3   3-24-83     T.S.O. VIII
1983-4   5-5-83      T.S.O. VIII
1983-6   6-2-83      T.S.O. VIII
1983-9   8-25-83     T.S.O. VIII
1983-14  9-22-83     T.S.O. VIII
                     Ch. 72, Schs.
1983-15  10-20-83    I -
                     III
1983-17  11-17-83    T.S.O. VIII
1984-1   1-12-84     T.S.O. II
1984-3   1-26-84     T.S.O. VIII
1984-6   3-8-84      T.S.O. I
1986-4   4-17-84     Ch. 72, Sch. VI
1984-8   5-3-84      T.S.O. VIII
1984-9   5-16-84     T.S.O. VIII
1984-12  7-26-84     T.S.O. VIII
1984-13  8-23-84     T.S.O. VIII
1984-16  9-20-84     T.S.O. VIII
1984-17  9-20-84     T.S.O. II
1984-18  10-4-84     T.S.O. VIII
1984-19  10-18-84    Ch. 72, Sch. VI
                     Ch. 72, Schs.
1984-21  11-1-84     III,
                     IV
1984-22  11-29-84    T.S.O. VIII
1985-4   3-7-85      T.S.O. VIII
1985-5   3-7-85      T.S.O. VIII
1985-6   3-21-85     T.S.O. VIII
1985-7   4-4-85      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1985-10  5-30-85     T.S.O. VIII
1985-11  5-30-85     T.S.O. VIII
1985-15  8-22-85     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1985-16  8-22-85     T.S.O. VIII
1985-18  9-5-85      T.S.O. I
1985-19  10-17-85    T.S.O. VIII
1985-20  11-14-85    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1985-21  12-12-85    T.S.O. II
1986-1   2-6-86      T.S.O. VIII
1986-3   3-6-86      T.S.O. VIII
1986-4   4-17-86     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1986-5   4-17-86     T.S.O. VIII
1986-6   4-17-86     T.S.O. VIII
1986-7   5-15-86     152.01
1986-8   5-15-86     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1986-12  8-21-86     T.S.O. I
1986-13  9-4-86      T.S.O. II
1986-13  10-21-86    T.S.O. VIII
1986-15  11-13-86    T.S.O. VIII
1986-16  11-25-86    T.S.O. VIII
1986-17  12-23-86    Ch. 72, Sch. I
1987-1   2-5-87      T.S.O. VIII
1987-2   2-19-87     T.S.O. VIII
1987-3   2-19-87     53.03
1987-4   2-19-87     T.S.O. VIII
1987-5   3-19-87     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1987-8   7-9-87      T.S.O. I
1987-9   7-23-87     T.S.O. I
1987-10  7-23-87     T.S.O. I
1987-12  7-23-87     T.S.O. VIII
1987-14  9-3-87      T.S.O. VIII
1987-15  9-3-87      T.S.O. III
1987-17  10-15-87    54.40 -
                     54.47
1987-19  10-29-87    T.S.O. VIII
1988-4   2-18-88     33.01 -
                     33.08
1988-5   2-24-88     T.S.O. VIII
1988-7   3-17-88     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1988-18  - -88       T.S.O. VIII
1988-19  - -88       T.S.O. VIII
1988-20  - -88       Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1988-20  6-23-88     Ch. 72, Sch. V
1988-21  - -88       T.S.O. VIII
1988-29  8-25-88     T.S.O. VIII
1988-30  8-25-88     T.S.O. VIII
1988-31  8-25-88     T.S.O. VIII
1988-33  8-25-88     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1988-34  10-13-88    T.S.O. VIII
1988-27  10-27-88    T.S.O. I
1989-1   1-12-89     T.S.O. VIII
1988-37  2-2-89      T.S.O. III
1989-2   2-2-89      34.14
1989-3   2-2-89      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1989-7   3-16-89     Ch. 72, Sch. III;
                     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1989-14  5-25-89     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1989-13  6-8-89      T.S.O. VIII
1989-15  6-8-89      Ch. 72, Sch. I
1989-16  7-6-89      T.S.O. VIII
1989-18  8-24-89     T.S.O. VIII
1989-21  10-26-89    Ch. 73, Sch. I
1989-26  1-4-90      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1990-9   1-15-90     71.05
1990-5   3-1-90      T.S.O. VIII
1990-6   3-15-90     11.01
1990-10  5-24-90     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1990-12  5-24-90     130.03
1990-13  5-24-90     32.01
1990-18  8-27-90     T.S.O. I
1990-19  10-11-90    T.S.O. VIII
1990-20  12-6-90     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1991-1   2-14-91     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1991-2   - -91       T.S.O. I
1991-4   4-11-91     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1991-7   8-15-91     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1991-10  12-5-91     T.S.O. VIII
1991-13  12-26-91    Ch. 72, Sch. IV
1992-3   3-12-92     T.S.O. VIII
1992-7   7-16-92     T.S.O. VIII
1992-9   7-16-92     31.01
1992-11  - -92       T.S.O. VIII
1992-13  7-16-92     T.S.O. VIII
1992-12  7-30-92     T.S.O. VIII
1992-19  8-24-92     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1992-18  8-31-92     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1992-22  11-5-92     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1992-23  - -92       T.S.O. VIII
1992-26  - -92       T.S.O. VIII
1992-27  - -92       T.S.O. VIII
1992-29  - -92       T.S.O. VIII
1992-30  12-30-92    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1992-31  - -92       T.S.O. VIII
1992-33  - -92       T.S.O. VIII
1993-5   3-25-93     T.S.O. VII
                     54.01 -
                     54.07,
1993-11  5-14-93     54.20,
                     54.21,
                     54.24 -
                     54.27
1993-14  5-27-93     T.S.O. VIII
1993-19  8-4-93      53.02
1993-21  9-23-93     50.01
1993-22  - -93       T.S.O. VIII
1993-23  - -93       T.S.O. VIII
1993-25  12-9-93     33.43
1993-26  - -93       110.03
1993-28  12-9-93     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1993-29  12-9-93     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1993-27  12-18-93    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
                     91.01 -
1994-1   1-27-94     91.08,
                     91.10,
                     91.11
1994-2   2-10-94     150.01
1994-6   4-28-94     Ch. 72, Sch. IV
1994-11  6-24-94     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1994-9   7-9-94      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1994-12  7-27-94     T.S.O. VII
1994-16  9-8-94      Ch. 72, Sch. I
1994-22  10-27-94    Ch. 72, Sch. III
1994-20  12-8-94     111.01
1994-21  12-8-94     T.S.O. I
1994-19  12-22-94    111.15 -
                     111.24
1994-23  1-12-95     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1994-24  1-12-95     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
                     94.01 -
1995-3   8-5-04      94.06,
                     94.99
1995-8   6-8-95      90.01 -
                     90.03
1996-3   7-25-96     T.S.O. VII
1996-8   8-26-96     Ch. 73, Sch. I
1996-9   8-26-96     Ch. 72, Sch. IV
                     54.01 -
                     54.07,
1996-10  8-26-96     54.20,
                     54.21,
                     54.24 -
                     54.27
1996-5   9-26-96     T.S.O. VII
1996-13  11-25-96    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1996-14  12-27-96    34.01 -
                     34.13
                     54.01 -
                     54.07,
1997-1   1-30-97     54.20,
                     54.21,
                     54.24 -
                     54.27
1997-4   3-25-97     T.S.O. VIII
1997-3   4-24-97     T.S.O. VIII
1997-6   6-3-97      3.01
1997-13  6-26-97     T.S.O. VIII
1997-14  10-9-97     T.S.O. VIII
                     51.01 -
1997-15  12-18-97    51.13,
                     51.25 -
                     51.31
1997-16  12-18-97    T.S.O. VIII
1998-2   4-9-98      T.S.O. VIII
1998-3   4-9-98      Ch. 72, Sch. IV
1998-5   5-14-98     130.02
1998-9   7-6-98      T.S.O. VIII
1998-11  7-6-98      T.S.O. VIII
1998-8   9-10-98     33.40 -
                     33.42
1998-16  9-24-98     52.01
1998-19  10-20-98    54.40 -
                     54.47
1998-20  11-23-98    130.01
1998-21  11-23-98    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1998-24  12-22-98    T.S.O. VIII
1999-2   6-10-99     52.01
1999-6   7-20-99     71.01 -
                     71.04
1999-7   7-20-99     54.26
1999-8   7-20-99     T.S.O. VIII
1999-14  8-26-99     T.S.O. VIII
1999-3   9-23-99     T.S.O. II
1999-13  11-4-99     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2000-1   1-27-00     71.04
2000-2   3-9-00      52.01
2000-5   5-11-00     T.S.O. VIII
2000-6   5-19-00     T.S.O. X
2000-7   6-8-00      54.42
2000-9   6-8-00      Ch. 72, Sch. VII
2000-8   6-15-00     71.02
2000-14  8-10-00     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2000-15  8-10-00     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2000-20  12-12-00    Ch. 72, Sch. V;
                     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2000-22  12-12-00    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2000-23  12-12-00    Ch. 72, Sch. I
2000-24  12-12-00    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
                     34.02 -
2000-25  2-12-01     34.05,
                     34.15 -
                     34.17
2000-21  3-8-01      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2001-2   5-10-01     T.S.O. VIII
2001-3   5-10-01     T.S.O. VIII
2001-5   5-10-01     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2001-8   6-21-01     T.S.O. X
                     34.02,
2001-10  7-12-01     34.03,
                     34.04,
                     34.16
                     30.01,
2001-11  9-13-01     31.01,
                     31.02
2001-13  9-13-01     T.S.O. XI
2001-14  10-11-01    54.42
2001-15  10-11-01    T.S.O. X
2001-16  10-11-01    71.04
2001-17  11-8-01     Adopting Ordinance
2002-1   2-14-02     153.01
2002-2   6-13-02     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2002-3   4-11-02     153.01
2002-4   6-13-02     Adopting Ordinance
                     34.025,
2002-7   9-3-02      34.03,
                     34.04,
                     34.16
2002-8   10-10-02    34.025
2002-9   8-8-02      51.08
2002-11  9-3-02      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2003-1   4-3-03      Ch. 73, Sch. I
2003-4   7-2-03      Adopting Ordinance
2003-5   7-2-03      153.01
2003-6   9-4-03      70.04
                     34.02 -
2003-9   9-5-03      34.05,
                     34.15,
                     34.16
2003-10  9-5-03      32.06
2003-11  10-6-03     T.S.O. X
2004-1   1-5-04      T.S.O. VII
                     154.01 -
2004-2   3-4-04      154.14,
                     154.98,
                     154.99
2004-3   3-4-04      111.15 -
                     111.24
2004-6   3-4-04      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2004-7   4-1-04      93.10
2004-8   4-1-04      Ch. 73, Sch. V
2004-10  7-1-04      T.S.O. I
2004-15  8-5-04      70.99,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2004-16  8-5-04      153.01
                     94.01,
2004-18  8-5-04      94.02,
                     94.99
2004-19  8-5-04      94.02,
                     94.05
2004-20  8-5-04      153.01
2004-24  10-13-04    T.S.O. III
2004-25  11-8-04     154.04
2004-26  12-22-04    70.05
2004-27  12-22-04    34.06,
                     34.11
2004-28  12-22-04    34.11
2004-30  12-22-04    34.14
2004-31  12-22-04    T.S.O. II
2005-1   2-3-05      33.43
2005-2   3-3-05      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2005-4   5-5-05      Adopting Ordinance
2005-8   8-8-05      T.S.O. X
2005-10  10-12-05    71.05
2005-11  12-19-05    T.S.O. III
2006-1   1-9-06      T.S.O. X
2006-6   8-3-06      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2006-7   8-3-06      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2006-8   8-23-06     51.01
2007-4   7-5-07      Ch. 72, Sch. III
2007-5   7-5-07      Ch. 73, Sch. I
2007-6   7-5-07      Ch. 73, Sch. II
2007-8   7-5-07      T.S.O. VIII
2007-11  8-2-07      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2007-15  10-4-07     T.S.O. XI
2007-16  12-6-07     T.S.O. VIII
2008-2   7-7-08      T.S.O. I
2008-3   5-8-08      T.S.O. X
2008-5   6-5-08      52.01
2008-7   7-3-08      71.08
2008-8   8-7-08      130.07,
                     130.99
2008-9   7-3-08      Adopting Ordinance
2008-14  1-2-09      T.S.O. X
2009-2   1-8-09      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2009-3   2-5-09      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2009-6   3-5-09      34.05
2009-7   4-13-09     T.S.O. X
2009-9   7-2-09      33.60 -
                     33.63
2010-1   3-29-10     T.S.O. II
                     93.02 -
2010-2   5-6-10      93.07,
                     93.09,
                     93.99
2010-8   10-7-10     130.06
2010-9   10-7-10     Ch. 72, Sch. V
2010-10  11-4-10     T.S.O. X
2010-11  12-2-10     54.42
2010-12  12- -10     T.S.O. X
2011-1   2-9-11      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2011-2   3-3-11      Ch. 72, Sch. VII
2011-4   5-5-11      70.99,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. I
2012-6   7-5-12      30.15 -
                     30.24
                     151.01 -
                     151.13,
                     151.25 -
                     151.27,
2012-7   6-5-12      151.40 -
                     151.46,
                     151.60 -
                     151.66,
                     151.99
2012-8   5-3-12      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2012-11  6-5-12      33.50
2012-12  6-5-12      31.04
2012-15  9-6-12      91.02
2012-17  10-4-12     130.05
2012-19  12-13-12    T.S.O. X
2012-21  12-24-12    T.S.O. X
                     34.02 -
                     34.06,
2013-1   2-7-13      34.11,
                     34.15,
                     34.16
2013-10  10-3-13     34.01
2013-11  12-18-13    T.S.O. X
2013-12  12-18-13    T.S.O. X
                     94.01 -
2014-1   4-3-14      94.05,
                     94.99
2014-5   7-3-14      91.01 -
                     91.11
2014-7   8-5-14      54.06,
                     54.20
                     75.01 -
2014-9   9-4-14      75.10,
                     75.99
2014-10  12-4-14     T.S.O. I
2015-1   2-5-15      Adopting Ordinance
2015-2   1-8-15      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2015-3   3-11-15     T.S.O. VII
2015-8   11-5-15     T.S.O. VIII
2015-10  11-16-15    T.S.O. X
2015-11  11-16-15    32.06
2015-12  12-3-15     T.S.O. X
2016-2   4-7-16      34.14
2016-4   6-30-16     33.90
2016-10  10-6-16     Adopting Ordinance
2016-12  10-20-16    T.S.O. VIII
2016-13  10-20-16    T.S.O. VIII
2016-14  11-9-16     T.S.O. X
                     151.01 -
                     151.13,
                     151.25 -
                     151.27,
2017-3   3-2-17      151.40 -
                     151.46,
                     151.60 -
                     151.66,
                     151.99
2017-6   5-4-17      53.25
2017-8   5-4-17      34.08
2017-9   8-9-17      35.01,
                     35.02
2017-10  8-3-17   T.S.O. X
2017-11  7-19-17     T.S.O. VIII
2017-18  1-25-18     T.S.O. I
2017-19  1-25-18     T.S.O. I
2017-20  11-2-17     Ch. 72, Sch. III
2017-21  11-2-17     130.03
2017-22  12-7-17     T.S.O. X
2018-2   1-25-18     31.04
2018-3   1-25-18     33.80 -
                     33.88
2018-9   8-2-18      92.02
2018-10  9-6-18      T.S.O. X
2018-12  8-2-18      52.01
                     75.01 -
2018-13  8-2-18   75.12,
                     75.99
2018-14  10-4-18     30.01
2018-15  11-1-18     T.S.O. VII
2019-1   2-13-19     92.02
2019-3   7-11-19     T.S.O. X
2019-6   7-11-19     Ch. 72, Sch. I
2019-7   7-11-19     Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2019-10  10-3-19     32.07
2019-11  9-5-19      Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2019-13  10-14-19    T.S.O. X
2019-14  12-5-19     32.08
2020-2   6-16-20     53.05
2020-3   6-4-20   T.S.O. X
2020-4   7-30-20     53.26
2020-5   7-30-20     92.01
2020-8   8-11-20     92.03
2021-1   1-12-21     T.S.O. X
2021-2   2-23-21     50.03
2021-6   3-16-21     33.20 -
                     33.30
2021-7   - -         33.70
2021-9   4-7-21   T.S.O. X
                     74.01 -
2021-10  5-11-21     74.05,
                     74.99
2021-11  5-4-21   31.04
2021-12  10-4-21     T.S.O. X
2021-13  10-4-21     T.S.O. X
2021-15  12-21-21    Ch. 72, Sch. III
2021-18  12-7-21     T.S.O. VII
2022-4   4-5-22      T.S.O. X
2022-08  6-7-22      Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2022-14  10-4-22     T.S.O. VII
2022-16  12-27-22    30.01
                     54.01 -
                     54.07,
2022-17  12-27-22    54.20 -
                     54.27,
                     54.40 -
                     54.47
2023-3   5-9-23      34.18
2023-04  5-25-23     153.01
2023-5   4-20-23     130.07,
                     130.99
2023-6   6-6-23      T.S.O. X
2023-7   8-8-23   34.14
2023-12  12-5-23     T.S.O. VII
2023-13  12-5-23     T.S.O. VII
2023-14  12-5-23     153.01
2024-1   1-2-24      153.01
2024-2   2-6-24      T.S.O. VIII
2024-3   3-6-24      34.11
2024-6   8-6-24      Ch. 72, Sch. I
2024-6A  8-6-24      Ch. 72, Sch. III
2024-10  12-17-24    T.S.O. VIII
2024-11  12-17-24    153.02
                    
 
