BROOKVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2026 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-21, passed 11-17-2025; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2025 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Brookville Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Brookville Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Brookville Town Council.
      COUNTY. The County of Franklin, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Brookville, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1980 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1980 Code, §
     )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Corporate boundaries
§ 11.01 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate boundaries of the town are as follows:
   Beginning at the southeast corner of Section 20, Township 9 North, Range 2
West, and running thence north 709.5 feet to a concrete monument; thence north
89 degrees and 45 minutes west 165 feet to a concrete monument; thence north 20
degrees west 363 feet to a concrete monument; thence north five degrees west
363 feet to a concrete monument; thence north eight degrees east 990 feet to a
concrete monument; thence north six degrees east 433.5 feet to a concrete
monument; thence south 86 degrees and 30 minutes west and crossing the east
fork of the Whitewater River 831 feet to a concrete monument on the east right-
of-way line of the present Brookville and Oxford Road; thence south 24 degrees
and 20 minutes west with said right of way line of said road 112 feet to a
concrete monument; thence north 56 degrees west with the north line of the
property belonging to Gustave A. Roser 468 feet to a concrete monument at the
intersection of said line with the east line of an alley; thence south 89
degrees and 39 minutes west and passing through St. Michael Catholic Cemetery
1,354 feet to a concrete monument; thence south 74 degrees and 16 minutes west
and running down the center of Butler’s Run 439 feet; thence continuing down
the center of said creek south 61 degrees and 35 minutes west 493 feet; thence
south 32 degrees west 367 feet; thence south 66 degrees and 35 minutes west 153
feet; thence north 82 degrees and ten minutes west 291.5 feet; thence south 40
degrees and 50 minutes west 92 feet to a point 3.7 feet northwest of a railroad
bridge marker number 92 located on the west bank of the Whitewater Canal;
thence down the west bank of said canal south 49 degrees and 15 minutes east
344.5 feet to a concrete monument; thence south 44 degrees and 30 minutes east
200 feet to a concrete monument; thence south 31 degrees and 55 minutes east
198 feet to a concrete monument; thence south 20 degrees and 15 minutes east
231 feet to a concrete monument; thence south 17 degrees and 30 minutes east
446 feet to a concrete monument on the west bank of said canal, the last five
described boundaries are approximately five feet west of the water’s edge of
said canal, the centerline of which is the corporation line of these points;
thence south four degrees east 1,237 feet to a concrete monument; thence south
49 degrees and 27 minutes east 190 feet to a concrete monument; thence south 17
degrees and 27 minutes east 394 feet to a concrete monument; thence south 20
degrees and 17 minutes east and crossing the Whitewater Railroad and Canal 256
feet to a concrete monument on the north property line of Fifth
   Street; thence south zero degrees and 43 minutes west 260 feet to a concrete
monument; thence south 16 degrees and three minutes west 165 feet to a concrete
monument; thence south 15 degrees and 50 minutes west 300 feet to a concrete
monument; thence south 31 degrees and seven minutes west 152 feet to a concrete
monument on the north line of Third Street; thence south 21 degrees and 47
minutes west 434 feet to a concrete monument on the north line of George
Martin’s Addition; thence north 84 degrees and 24 minutes west 114 feet to a
concrete monument; thence south 18 degrees and 40 minutes east 595 feet to a
concrete monument; thence south 27 degrees and 30 minutes east 538 feet to a
concrete monument; thence south 21 degrees and 32 minutes east 295 feet to a
concrete monument at the southwest corner of lot number 92 on Mary and W.W.
Butler’s Addition; thence east on the south line of said Addition 561 feet to a
concrete monument; thence north 82 degrees east 376 feet to a concrete monument
on the north bank of the east fork of the Whitewater River at which concrete
monument is 140 feet north of the center of said stream; and thence north 63
degrees east 440 feet; thence north 46 degrees east 545 feet; thence north 27
degrees and 30 minutes east 1,556 feet; thence north four degrees and 30
minutes west 850 feet; thence north 89 degrees and 45 minutes east 306 feet;
thence north 15 degrees and 15 minutes east 612.5 feet to a concrete monument
on Bank Street which is 156 feet west of the centerline of the east fork of the
Whitewater River and which point is on the corporation line of said town, the
last seven described boundaries are traverse lines established to locate the
east fork of the Whitewater River, the centerline of which is the corporation
line at this location; thence continuing from the center of said river north 89
degrees and 50 minutes east 275 feet to the place of beginning, which is the
southeast corner of Section 20, Township 9 North, Range 2 West.
(1980 Code, § 1-7)
Editor’s note:
   The town was incorporated as a town by an act of the General Assembly of the
state on 6-11-1852 entitled, An Act for the Incorporation of Towns, Defining
Their Powers, Providing for the Election of Officers Thereof, and Declaring
Their Duties.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   EMPLOYEES, OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
32.   GENERAL TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: EMPLOYEES, OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Elections; wards
   
30.02   Social Security
   
30.03   Public Employees’ Retirement Fund
   
30.04   Personnel policies
   
30.05   Nepotism
   
30.06   Drug-free workplace
   
30.07   Non-discrimination
   
30.08   Political activity
   
30.09   Police Department standard operating procedures, rules and regulations
   
30.10   Alcohol and drug abuse
   
30.11   Travel reimbursement
Officials
   
30.20   Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.21   Marshal
   
30.22   Town Manager
Redevelopment Department; Commission
   
30.35   Creation
   
30.36   Membership
   
30.37   Organization and general operation
   
30.38   Powers
Area Planning Commission
   
30.50   Intent
   
30.51   Adoption of state law
   
30.52   Establishment of Department by county
   
30.53   Membership of Advisory Council
   
30.54   Certification of subchapter and representative to County Board
Development Department; Commission
   
30.65   Intent
   
30.66   Department created
   
30.67   Control Commission
Safety Board
   
30.80   Re-constitution
   
30.81   Members
   
30.82   Terms of office
   
30.83   Bond
   
30.84   State law
   
30.85   Immunity
Cross-reference:
   Historic Preservation Commission, see
Chapter 155
*** GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
§ 30.01 ELECTIONS; WARDS.
   (A)   The place of voting in all five of the wards of the town shall be in a
room provided in the water works.
(1980 Code, § 2-6)
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-8-5-2(a) and (c), the nomination of candidates for
town office shall be:
      (1)   By primary election;
      (2)   By petition filed under I.C. 3-8-6; or
      (3)   If a primary election is not required under I.C. 3-8-5-10 for the
political party of which the candidate is a member, by the candidate’s
declaration of candidacy.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-2.7, the election of Town Council members from
Wards 1, 3 and 5 and Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected in the year 2004 and
every four years afterward. The term of office for Town Council members from
Wards 1, 3 and 5 and Town Clerk-Treasurer shall have their present terms
extended one year to align their election to the next general election of 2004
and then every four years afterward.
   (D)   The town is hereby divided into five wards for the purpose of town
elections, as follows.
      (1)   Definition. Whenever, in this division (D), a street is mentioned,
it will mean the centerline of said street.
      (2)   Ward No. 1. Ward Number One shall begin at the intersection of the
corporation line and SR 101 and SR 1; thence westerly along Butler’s Run to the
original corporation line (railroad tracks); thence southerly to West Ninth
Street; thence easterly to Cliff Street; thence southerly to Seventh Street, on
Seventh Street proceed easterly to Main Street; thence northerly on Main Street
to Tenth Street, thence easterly on Tenth Street to John Street; on John Street
proceed northerly to SR 101; thence easterly along SR 101 to corporation line
to intersection; thence follow corporation line to point of beginning.
      (3)   Ward No. 2. Ward Number Two shall begin at the intersection of SR
101 and John Street; thence southerly on John Street to Tenth Street; thence
westerly on Tenth Street to Main Street; thence southerly on Main Street to
Sixth Street; thence easterly on Sixth Street to Mill Street; thence northerly
on Mill Street to Eighth Street; thence easterly on Eighth Street to
corporation line; follow corporation line to intersection of Ward 5; thence
westerly to Fairfield Avenue; thence in a northwesterly direction to SR 101
(the south property line of Fairbrook Manor); thence westerly on SR 101 to
point of beginning.
      (4)   Ward No. 3. Ward Number Three shall be as follows: all that part of
the town lying south of the east fork of the Whitewater River and being known
as the south annexation; and all that part of the town lying west of the
original corporation line and being known as the west annexation, which
includes Fairview, Lohrey Manor and Meyer’s Westbrook Addition; begin at the
corporation line at the east end of Cleaver Street; thence westerly on Cleaver
Street to High Street; thence northerly on High Street to Fourth Street; thence
westerly on Fourth Street to Franklin Avenue; thence northerly on Franklin
Avenue to Sixth Street; thence westerly on Sixth Street to Main Street.
      (5)   Ward No. 4. Ward Number Four shall begin at the intersection of
Eighth Street and Mill Street; thence easterly on Eighth Street to corporation
line; thence southerly on corporation line to the intersection of the
corporation line and Cleaver Street; thence westerly on Cleaver Street to High
Street; thence northerly on High Street to Fourth Street; thence westerly on
Fourth Street to Franklin Avenue; thence northerly on Franklin Avenue to Sixth
Street; thence easterly on Sixth Street to Mill Street; thence northerly on
Mill Street to point of beginning.
      (6)   Ward No. 5. Ward Number Five shall begin at the intersection of SR
101 and Fairfield Avenue; thence follow the corporation line in an easterly
direction; thence follow the corporation line in a southerly direction; thence
follow the corporation line in a westerly direction to Fairfield Avenue; thence
in a northeasterly direction to SR 101 (along the south property line of
Fairbrook Manor); thence in a northeasterly direction to point of beginning.
(Ord. 1-1963, passed - -1963; Ord. 3-2002, passed 11-12-2002; Ord. 5-2002,
passed 11-26-2002; Ord. 7-2012, passed 12-11-2012; Ord. 2023-4, passed 4-6-
2023)
§ 30.02 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Election of coverage. The town hereby elects coverage under the Old-
Age and Survivors’ Insurance as provided by I.C. 5-10.1-2-1 to 5-10.1-6-4 and,
as such, may be implemented by regulations of the state agency.
(1980 Code, § 2-21)
   (B)   Positions covered. All positions shall be covered, except part-time
positions and elected legislative officials.
(1980 Code, § 2-22)
   (C)   Administration. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
Title II, § 218, of the federal Social Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. 418 and
amendments thereto, the agreement entered into between the state agency with
the approval of the Governor and the Social Security Administrator is made a
part of this section and shall continue as an integral part of the federal
agreement between the town and the state agency and shall become a part of the
agreement or modification of the agreement between the state and the Social
Security Administrator. The Council hereby explicitly agrees that it will fully
perform the obligation of a political subdivision under such agreement and I.C.
5-10.1-2-1 to 5-10.1-6-6, as they may be implemented by regulations of the
state agency.
(1980 Code, § 2-23)
(Ord. 2-1956, passed - -1956)
§ 30.03 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   Election of coverage. The town hereby elects to become a participant
in the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund as established by I.C. 5-10.3-2-l et
seq.
(1980 Code, § 2-24)
   (B)   Contributions by town. The town agrees to make the required
contributions under the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund Act, which is I.C. 5-
10.3-2-1 et seq., and all acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto.
(1980 Code, § 2-25)
   (C)   Covered positions.
      (1)   The following are declared to be covered by the Fund: all full-time
employees of the Police Department, Street Department and Sewer Department and
radio operators.
      (2)   It is hereby declared that none of the classifications or positions
specified in this section are compensated on a fee basis, are of an emergency
nature or are in a part-time category.
(1980 Code, § 2-26)
   (D)   Coverage date. The active participating membership of the employees
shall begin on 1-1-1975.
(1980 Code, § 2-27)
(Ord. 12-10-74, passed - -)
§ 30.04 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The town’s personnel policies, and any amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 12-14-1993; Res. 1-2012, passed 2-14-2012; Ord. 1-2016, passed 2-
23-2016)
§ 30.05 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
7-1-2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On 7-1-2012, the town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with a
unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter, “contracting
with a unit by a relative policy”) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town nepotism policy is hereby established effective 7-1-2012 by
adopting the minimum requirement provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and including
all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to
time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In addition, a
copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2, Nepotism, in effect on July 1 is attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
   (D)   The town contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective 7-1-2012 by adopting the minimum requirement provisions
of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments thereto
which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully
set out herein. In addition, a copy of the I.C. 36-1-21, Nepotism, in effect on
July 1 is attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more details are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority he/she will
not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-5-2-
9.4.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliances
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementations, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of either the nepotism policy or
the contracting with unit by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed
by law.
   (K)   (1)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
         (b)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
         (c)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section;
or
         (d)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
      (2)   Upon any of taking these actions, these policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, effective
7-1-2012, are annexed to the ordinance codified herein.
   (M)   Two copies of this section and I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as
supplemented or amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for
the town for public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-2.
(Ord. 2-2012, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 30.06 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use
of a controlled substance or alcoholic beverage is prohibited in the workplace.
   (B)   The workplace consists of town property, rights-of way, vehicles and
equipment.
   (C)   In addition to the risk of criminal sanctions, violating employees
face personnel action up to and including termination consistent with the
requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 701 et seq.,
as amended, and personnel policies, or a requirement that the employee
participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program
approved for such purposes by a federal, state or local health, law enforcement
or other appropriate agency.
   (D)   In addition, an employee must, as a condition of continued employment,
abide by the terms of this policy, and notify the town in writing of his or her
conviction for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the
workplace no later than five calendar days after such conviction or alcoholic
beverage statute occurring in the workplace no later than five calender days
after such conviction.
(Res. 1-1996, passed 1-9-1996)
§ 30.07 NON-DISCRIMINATION.
   The Town Council establishes a permanent policy to recruit, hire, promote,
transfer and terminate employment without regard to race, religion, color, sex,
age, national origin, ancestry or the disabled, and to provide equal employment
for minorities, women, the disabled and older workers.
(Res. 2-1996, passed 1-9-1996)
§ 30.08 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   No federal, state or local funds shall be used at any time to promote any
type of partisan political activity.
(Res. 3-1996, passed 1-9-1996)
§ 30.09 POLICE DEPARTMENT STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Police Department’s standard operating procedures, rules and
regulations are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set
out in full.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 2-24-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Police Department administrative policy and fees, see §§
32.30 et seq.
§ 30.10 ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   Overview. The Town of Brookville, Indiana makes a commitment to
provide employees a safe working environment, to ensure that employees,
equipment and operating practices comply with health and safety standards, and
to maintain public confidence in the town and its employees. Since the Town of
Brookville values each employee, the town offers employees assistance in
dealing with alcohol and drug abuse problems.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The Town of Brookville requires all employees to report for work in
a condition that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient
manner. Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol
or with prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the town.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C.
8120) and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. 1308.11-1308.15) and
prescription-controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include but are not limited to marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol. 
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for town business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source (these requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988).
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this chapter. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee's actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the town's reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual's responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the employee and family assistance program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other town policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the course of action
to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the opportunity to
participate in a rehabilitation program and/ or will be subject to discipline).
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The Town of Brookville, Indiana will not ask employees to submit to
random alcohol or drug tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse.
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
town.
         (c)   When required by law.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-4, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 30.11 TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   An employee may be reimbursed for mileage at the state government
mileage rate for the use of privately owned automobiles for official business.
However, such reimbursement may be made only if the employee carries motor
vehicle liability insurance as required by law, and demonstrates proof of such
insurance.
   (B)   Claims, with original itemized receipts, must be turned into the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office within seven days of the trip or event. Charges for
parking are reimbursable on any day when an employee is entitled to claim
reimbursement for mileage.
   (C)   Reasonable meals will be reimbursed when supported by original
itemized receipts. Gratuity should be reasonable and not exceed 20%.
      (1)   When separate checks are not available, an employee may claim
reimbursement for other employees, provided that each employee is identified by
name and that an original receipt is provided.
      (2)   Payment for meals will only be made to the individual submitting
the claim.
      (3)   No meals will be reimbursed for meals which are already provided
for in a registration fee and no exceptions will be permitted.
   (D)   Reasonable lodging shall be reimbursed when supported by original
receipts in the following manner:
      (1)   Single occupancy will be reimbursed at actual cost.
      (2)   Reimbursement for lodging costs shall include room costs,
associated local taxes and necessary business related charges.
      (3)   Room service will not be reimbursed.
   (E)   Personal expenses incurred in traveling are not reimbursable,
including but not limited to: personal telephone calls, laundry, entertainment,
in room movies and alcoholic beverages.
(Res. 5-2016, passed 9-27-2016)
*** OFFICIALS ***
§ 30.20 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Bond to be given. The Clerk-Treasurer shall give bond and security,
payable to the state, in the penal sum of $20,000 conditioned for the faithful
discharge of duties.
(1980 Code, § 2-1)
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer, in addition to
the duties prescribed by law, to attest all ordinances and bylaws which shall
or may be adopted, to record them in a book prepared for that purpose and have
them published at the expense of the town. He or she shall give all notices and
make such attestations as are required by law and shall perform such other
duties as may be required of him or her by the laws and ordinances of the town.
(1980 Code, § 2-2)
(Ord. 7-22-1895, passed - -1895)
Statutory reference:
   Bond of Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 5-4-1
   Clerk-Treasurer generally, see I.C. 36-5-6
§ 30.21 MARSHAL.
   (A)   Bond. The Marshal shall give bond and security, payable to the state,
in the penal sum of $1,000, conditioned for the faithful discharge of duties.
(1980 Code, § 2-3)
§ 30.22 TOWN MANAGER.
   The Town Council, as permitted by I.C. 36-5-5-2, is hereby authorized to
employ a Town Manager to be the administrative head of the town government. The
Town Council may not employ one of its own members as the Town Manager. The
Town Manager shall serve the town in accordance with the requirements and
duties outlined in I.C. 36-5-5 and the following terms and conditions approved
by the Town Council:
   (A)   The Town Council shall annually fix the compensation for the Town
Manager.
   (B)   The Town Manager is employed by, and serves at the pleasure of, the
Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Manager must, in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-4-1, execute
a bond for the faithful performance of the Town Manager's duties.
   (D)   The Town Manager is prohibited from doing any of the following:
      (1)   The Town Manager may not serve as a member of any body that hears
disciplinary charges against:
         (a)   The Town Marshall; or
         (b)   A member of the town Police Department.
      (2)   The Town Manager is not authorized to issue or execute bonds,
notes, or warrants of the town.
   (E)   The Town Manager, under the direction of the Town Council, is
responsible for the administrative duties of the Town Council. The Town
Manager:
      (1)   Shall attend the meetings of the Town Council and recommend actions
that the Town Manager considers advisable;
      (2)   Shall hire seasonal town employees, after consultation with the
appropriate department head, according to the pay schedules and standards fixed
by the Town Council or by state statute. The Town Council shall retain the
authority to hire all other full-time or part-time employees of the town;
      (3)   Shall suspend, discharge, remove, or transfer seasonal town
employees, after consultation with the appropriate department head, if
necessary for the welfare of the town. The Town Council shall retain the
authority to suspend, discharge, remove, or transfer all other full-time or
part- time employees of the town;
      (4)   May delegate any of the Town Manager's powers to an employee
responsible to the Town Manager;
      (5)   Shall administer and enforce all ordinances, orders, and
resolutions of the Town Council in coordination with the appropriate town
department;
      (6)   Shall see that all statutes that are required to be administered by
the Town Council or a town officer subject to the control of the Town Council
are faithfully administered;
      (7)   Shall work with the town's Clerk-Treasurer and the appropriate
Department Head for the preparation of budget estimates and/or necessary
additional appropriations and submit them to the Town Council when required;
      (8)   Shall execute contracts on behalf of the town for materials,
supplies, services, or improvements, after the completion of the
appropriations, notice, and competitive bidding as may be required by state
statute;
      (9)   May receive service of summons on behalf of the town;
      (10)   Shall monitor and approve administrative functions of the town's
Police Department. All hiring and/or disciplinary matters pertaining to the
town's Police Department shall be retained by the Town Council and/or the
town's Safety Board.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 10-2-2023)
   (B)   Deputy Marshal. The Marshal of the town is hereby authorized to
appoint one Deputy Marshal, who, in executing the orders of the Council, shall
possess the powers and be subject to the liabilities of the Marshal. The Deputy
Marshal shall serve one year from the date of his or her appointment and shall
be subject to the orders of the Marshal, who may discharge him or her at any
time.
(1980 Code, § 2-4)
(Res. 2-11-07, passed - -1907)
Statutory reference:
   Marshals and Deputy Marshals in towns, see I.C. 36-5-7, 36-5-7-6
*** REDEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; COMMISSION ***
§ 30.35 CREATION.
   It is hereby declared that the public welfare and interest of the citizens
of the town will best be served by establishing a Department of Redevelopment
within the town and by further establishing and maintaining a commission for
the sustainability and continued development of the town. To that end, the
Council of the town hereby creates and establishes a Department of
Redevelopment within the corporate limits of the town and further creates and
establishes a commission to oversee and control said Department to be known as
“The Town of Brookville Redevelopment Commission”, referred to in this document
as “the Commission”.
(Ord. 5-2012, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 30.36 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Composition. The Commission shall consist of five voting members and
one non-voting member appointed by the town. The appointing board shall ensure
that all members are residents of the town and at least 18 years of age. The
composition of the Commission will be as follows.
      (1)   Three of the five members of the Commission will be appointed by
the municipal executive.
      (2)   Two members will be appointed by the municipal legislative body,
the Town Council.
      (3)   The non-voting member will be appointed by the municipal executive
and shall be a member of the School Board.
   (B)   Representation and appointment process. Appointed members shall
represent various segments of the community, such as, but not limited to,
property owners, merchants, residents, businesses and institutions, landscape
architects, civil engineers or related specialties; and shall have a
willingness to participate actively in Commission efforts; and shall possess
expertise and interest in the sustainability and development of the town. The
process used to make appointments to the Commission is at the discretion of the
appointing board.
   (C)   Removal. Members of the Commission that have been appointed by the
municipal executive shall be removed at the discretion of the municipal
executive. Members of the Commission that have been appointed by the Town
Council shall be removed at the discretion of the Town Council. Further, if a
Commissioner fails to be qualified under I.C. 36-7-14-7, said Commissioner
shall forfeit his or her position on the Commission.
   (D)   Terms of office. Original members of the Commission shall serve for a
period of two years from 1-1-2013 through 12-31-2014. Thereafter, members of
the Commission shall serve a one-year term from January 1 to December 31.
Members are eligible to serve as many terms as appointed.
   (E)   Commissioners and non-voting advisers; pecuniary interest. A
Redevelopment Commissioner or a non-voting adviser may not have a pecuniary
interest in any contract, employment, purchase or sale to which the Commission
is a party. However, any property required for redevelopment purposes in which
a Commissioner or non-voting adviser has a pecuniary interest may be acquired,
but only by gift or condemnation. Any transaction made in violation of this
provision is void.
(Ord. 5-2012, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 30.37 ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL OPERATION.
   (A)   Bylaws. The Commission shall adopt bylaws within 12 months from the
date of the town’s adoption of the creation ordinance.
   (B)   Meeting. The Commission shall adopt a regular meeting schedule.
Special meetings may be called by the President or, in his or her absence, by
the Vice-President, and special meetings shall be called upon the request of a
majority of the members of the Commission.
   (C)   Selection of officers. The Commission shall hold a meeting within 30
days of the January 1 new appointments for purposes of choosing, from its
members, a President, Vice-President and Secretary each term.
   (D)   Attendance. The failure of any Commission member to attend 75% or more
of the meetings of the Commission held during a 12-month period, without an
excused absence being approved by the President of the Commission, may be
grounds for removal.
   (E)   Voting. Three Commissioners are required for a quorum and the
Commission must have three concurring votes to authorize any action. The
President or the presiding member of the Commission shall vote on all matters
of business considered by the Commission, unless recused by a majority vote of
the Commission.
   (F)   Compensation. Members of the Commission shall receive no compensation
for their service, but shall be entitled to reimbursement for necessary out-of-
pocket expenses incurred in the performance of the Commission’s duties.
   (G)   Bond. The Commission will pay for a $15,000 bond for each member of
the Commission. The bond is conditioned on the faithful performance of the
duties for the office.
   (H)   Periodic reviews. The Commission shall provide the Council for the
town, and its executive officer, with an annual report of all Commission
activities and other information as required by I.C. 36-7-14-13 no later than
30 days after the close of each calendar year.
   (I)   Forwarding report. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-13(d), the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town shall forward said report to the Department of Local Government
Finance in an electronic format under I.C. 5-14-6.
   (J)   Dissolution procedure. The Commission may be discharged or dissolved
by a resolution by the town.
(Ord. 5-2012, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 30.38 POWERS.
   (A)   In compliance with I.C. 36-7-4, the Commission shall perform the
following duties:
      (1)   Investigate, study and survey area needing redevelopment within the
corporate boundaries of the unit;
      (2)   Investigate, study, determine and, to the extent possible, combat
the causes of areas needing redevelopment;
      (3)   Promote the use of land in the manner that best serves the
interests of the town and its inhabitants;
      (4)   Cooperate:
         (a)   With the department and agencies of:
            1.   The town; and
            2.   Other governmental agencies.
         (b)   With:
            1.   Public instrumentalities; and
            2.   Public corporate bodies created by state law, in the manner
that best serves the purposes of the Commission and I.C. 36-7-14 et al.
      (5)   Make findings and reports on their activities, and keep those
reports open to inspection by the public at the offices of the Department of
the town;
      (6)   Select and acquire the areas needing redevelopment to be
redeveloped under I.C. 36-7-14 et al.; and
      (7)   Replan and dispose of the areas needing redevelopment in the manner
that best serves the social and economic interests of the unit and its
inhabitants.
   (B)   In compliance with I.C. 36-7-14-12.2, the Commission may do the
following:
      (1)   Acquire, by purchase, exchange, gift, grant, condemnation or lease,
or any combination of methods, any personal property or interest in real
property needed for the redevelopment of areas needing redevelopment that are
located within the corporate boundaries of the unit;
      (2)   Hold, use, sell (by conveyance by deed, land sale contract or other
instrument), exchange, lease, rent or otherwise dispose of property acquired
for use in the redevelopment of areas needing redevelopment on the terms and
conditions that the Commission considers best for the unit and its inhabitants;
      (3)   Sell, lease or grant interests in all or part of the real property
acquired for redevelopment purposes to any other department of the unit or to
any other government agency for public ways, levees, sewerage, parks,
playgrounds, schools and other public purposes on any terms that may be agreed
on;
      (4)   Clear real property acquired for redevelopment purposes;
      (5)   Enter on or into, inspect, investigate and assess real property and
structures acquired or to be acquired for redevelopment purposes to determine
the existence, source, nature and extent of any environmental contamination,
including the following:
         (a)   Hazardous substances;
         (b)   Petroleum; and
         (c)   Other pollutants.
      (6)   Remediate environmental contamination, including the following,
found on any real property or structures acquired for redevelopment purposes;
      (7)   Repair and maintain structures acquired for redevelopment purposes;
      (8)   Remodel, rebuild, enlarge or make major structural improvements on
structures acquired for redevelopment purposes;
      (9)   Survey or examine any land to determine whether it should be
included within an area needing redevelopment to be acquired for redevelopment
purposes and to determine the value of the land;
      (10)   Appear before any other department or agency of the unit or before
any other governmental agency in respect to any matter affecting:
         (a)   Real property acquired or being acquired for redevelopment
purposes; or
         (b)   Any area needing redevelopment within the jurisdiction of the
Commissioners.
      (11)   Institute or defend, in the name of the unit, any civil action;
      (12)   Use any legal or equitable remedy that is necessary or considered
proper to protect and enforce the rights of and perform the duties of the
Department of Redevelopment;
      (13)   Exercise the power of eminent domain in the name of and within the
corporate boundaries of the unit in the manner prescribed by I.C. 36-7-14-20;
      (14)   Appoint an executive director, appraisers, real estate experts,
engineers, architects, surveyors and attorneys;
      (15)   Appoint clerks, guards, laborers and other employees the
Commission considers advisable; except that, those appointments must be made in
accordance with the merit system of the unit if such a system exists;
      (16)   Prescribe the duties and regulate the compensation of employees of
the Department of Redevelopment;
      (17)   Provide a pension and retirement system for employees of the
Department of Redevelopment by using the Indiana Public Employees’ Retirement
Fund or a retirement plan approved by the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development;
      (18)   Discharge and appoint successors to employees of the Department of
Redevelopment subject to division (B)(14) above;
      (19)   Rent offices for use of the Department of Redevelopment, or accept
the use of offices furnished by the unit;
      (20)   Equip the offices of the Department of Redevelopment with the
necessary furniture, furnishing, equipment, records and supplies;
      (21)   Expend, on behalf of the special taxing district, all or any part
of the money of the special taxing district;
      (22)   Contract for the construction of:
         (a)   Local public improvements (as defined in I.C. 36-7-14.5-6) or
structures that are necessary for redevelopment of areas needing redevelopment
or economic development within the corporate boundaries of the unit; or
         (b)   Any structure that enhances development or economic development.
      (23)   Contract for the construction, extension or improvement of
pedestrian skyways;
      (24)   Accept loans, grants and other forms of financial assistance from
the federal government, the state government, a municipal corporation, a
special taxing district, a foundation or any other source;
      (25)   Provide financial assistance (including grants and loans) to
enable individuals and families to purchase or lease residential units within
the district. However, financial assistance may be provided only to individuals
and families whose income is at or below the unit’s median income for
individuals and families, respectively;
      (26)   Provide financial assistance (including grants and loans) to
neighborhood development corporations to permit them to:
         (a)   Provide financial assistance for the purposes described in
division (B)(24) above; or
         (b)   Construct, rehabilitate or repair commercial property within the
district.
      (27)   Require, as a condition of financial assistance to the owner of a
multiple-unit residential structure, that any of the units leased by the owners
must be leased:
         (a)   For a period to be determined by the Commission, which may not
be less than five years;
         (b)   To families whose income does not exceed 80% of the unit’s
median income for families; and
         (c)   At an affordable rate.
      (28)   Conditions imposed by the Commission under division (B)(26) above
remain in force throughout the period determined under division (B)(26)(a)
above, even if the owner sells, leases or conveys the property. The subsequent
owner or lessee is bound by the conditions for the remainder of the period.
   (C)   All powers that may be exercised under this subchapter by the
Redevelopment Commission may also be exercised by the Redevelopment Commission
in carrying out its duties and purposes under I.C. 36-7-14.5.
   (D)   In addition, when the Commission receives money through grants, the
Commission has the power and obligation to disperse funds in accordance with
the various grant stipulations and requirements.
(Ord. 5-2012, passed 11-27-2012)
*** AREA PLANNING COMMISSION ***
§ 30.50 INTENT.
   It is the declared intention of the Council to participate in the operation
of the Area Planning Commission after it is established by the Board of
Commissioners of the county.
(1980 Code, § 2-7) (Ord. 4A-1962, passed - -1962)
Statutory reference:
   Area planning, see I.C. 36-7-12-4
   Regional planning commissions, see I.C. 36-7-4-0.1
§ 30.51 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The Council hereby adopts the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-0.1.
(1980 Code, § 2-8) (Ord. 4A-1962, passed - -1962)
§ 30.52 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT BY COUNTY.
   The Area Planning Department shall be established by a separate ordinance of
the Board of Commissioners of the county and shall be in existence from the
date on which it is organized at its first meeting called by the President of
the Board of County Commissioners.
(1980 Code, § 2-9) (Ord. 4A-1962, passed - -1962)
§ 30.53 MEMBERSHIP OF ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   The membership of the Advisory Council of town affairs of the Area Planning
Commission, as set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-202, shall include one member of the
Council of the town; such Advisory Council of town affairs representing the
other participating incorporated towns shall elect a member of the Advisory
Council of town affairs to serve as a member of the Area Planning Commission.
(1980 Code, § 2-10) (Ord. 4A-1962, passed - -1962)
§ 30.54 CERTIFICATION OF SUBCHAPTER AND REPRESENTATIVE TO COUNTY BOARD.
   A copy of the ordinance from which this subchapter was derived shall be
certified to the Board of County Commissioners together with the name of the
member appointed to the Advisory Council of town affairs.
(1980 Code, § 2-11) (Ord. 4A-1962, passed - -1962)
*** DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; COMMISSION ***
§ 30.65 INTENT.
   (A)   The town, by and through its proper officials, hereby approves the
tentative agreement for cooperative operation of Region 9 Development
Commission and does hereby agree to become a part of such Commission.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be the intent of the town to enter into
active participation and to abide by the agreement of the cooperative operation
of Region 9 Development Commission from and after the adoption of the ordinance
from which this section was derived.
(1980 Code, § 2-12) (Ord. 2-1974, passed - -1974)
Statutory reference:
   Planning and development generally, see I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq.
   Promotion of economic development, see I.C. 36-7-1.0-1 et seq.
§ 30.66 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   Pursuant to authority granted by I.C. 36-7-12-4, there is hereby created the
Town Department of Development, which shall be in addition to existing
executive departments of the town.
(1980 Code, § 2-13) (Ord. 4-1976, passed - -)
§ 30.67 CONTROL COMMISSION.
   The Department of Development shall be under the control of a board of three
members, to be known as the Development Commission. The members of such
Commission shall be appointed and shall perform the duties and exercise the
powers as set forth in I.C. 36-7-12.
(1980 Code, § 2-14) (Ord. 4-1976, passed - -)
*** SAFETY BOARD ***
§ 30.80 RE-CONSTITUTION.
   The Safety Board pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3 et seq. is hereby re-constituted.
(Ord. 2022-15, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 30.81 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Safety Board shall consist of each of the members of the Town
Council, for a total of five members.
   (B)   The Town Council may by motion appoint between one and five alternate
Safety Board members that may stand in if any Safety Board member recuses
himself/herself from a matter.
      (1)   Such alternates shall be appointed in a rotational order
(maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer) and shall be called upon to serve as needed
based on such rotation.
      (2)   Such alternates shall be appointed for a term of up to four years,
but may not be replaced at any time, so long as they are not actively serving
on a matter pending before the Safety Board.
(Ord. 2022-15, passed 10-18-2022; Ord. 2022-21, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 30.82 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The terms of office of each member of the Safety Board shall be co-terminus
with such member’s term of office, and the current Town Council members are
hereby appointed for the remaineder of their respective terms.
(Ord. 2022-15, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 30.83 BOND.
   As elected Council members, the members shall serve without bond.
(Ord. 2022-15, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 30.84 STATE LAW.
   The Safety Board may otherwise carry out its duties pursuant to I.C. 36-8-
3 et seq.
(Ord. 2022-15, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 30.85 IMMUNITY.
   Any officer that is not themselves the subject of an investigation or
disciplinary proceeding that cooperates in any investigation or proceeding
before the Safety Board may receive transactional, disciplinary immunity. Such
immunity shall protect such cooperating officer in disciplinary matters
including, but not limited to, job retention and future promotions. The town's
investigating attorney may be authorized to grant immunity by a majority vote
of the Safety Board. To receive such immunity, the cooperating officer's
testimony must be relevant, material, truthful, and complete. Should the Board
refuse to recognize that immunity, then any truthful statements made to the
town's investigating attorney cannot be divulged in any disciplinary
proceeding.
(Ord. 2022-24, passed 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 31: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Depositories
   
31.02   Fixed asset ledger
   
31.03   Internal control standards and materiality threshold
   
31.04   Electronic funds transfers and online banking
   
31.05   Use of town credit card
   
31.06   Pre-approved payment of claims
   
31.07   Investment policy
   
31.08   Grant applications
   
31.09   Cost principles for spending federal funds
Purchasing Agency
   
31.15   Purchasing agency designated
   
31.16   Purchasing agents designated
   
31.17   Purchase of supplies under $50,000 by purchasing agents
   
31.18   Purchase of services by purchasing agents
   
31.19   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
31.20   Purchase of supplies from the Department of Correction
   
31.21   Purchase of supplies from the Rehabilitation Center
*** GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
§ 31.01 DEPOSITORIES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to deposit, invest and
reinvest monies, as determined and identified by the Clerk-Treasurer, in the
following designated financial institutions in the town and the county: FCN
Bank, National Association MainSource Bank and Bath State Bank.
(Res. 2-2012, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 31.02 FIXED ASSET LEDGER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall no longer be required to list any new purchases of
fixed assets on the fixed asset ledger unless the cost of said new purchase for
a fixed asset exceeds the sum of $5,000. All other purchases of fixed assets by
the town shall not be required to be kept and listed on the fixed asset ledger.
(Res. 4-1996, passed 3-26-1996)
§ 31.03 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the internal control policy attached to Ord. 4-
4016 as Exhibit A, by reference as if laid out here in its entirety.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning the internal control procedures adopted and approved
therein prior to June 30, 2016.
   (C)   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $500 for purposes of
the internal control procedures adopted and approved therein.
(Ord. 4-2016, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 31.04 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic Clearing House (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Wire transfers. Wire transfers are hereby authorized for the Clerk-
Treasurer to make certain payments via wire transfer. Authorized payments are
bond/loan/finance payments.
   (C)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT), including online transfers. The Town
Council of the Town of Brookville authorizes the use of online transfers for
the purpose of transferring funds from the general, payroll, water and sewer
checking accounts in the process of paying claims/invoices.
   (D)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2021-5, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 31.05 USE OF TOWN CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   With Council's approval, Clerk-Treasurer has applied for a town credit
card for official town business with a max credit limit of $5,000, which shall
be used for specific travel, educational and/or public expenses/purchases.
   (B)   Department Superintendents shall be granted the authority to request
the use of the town credit card for the following expenses/purchases:
      (1)   Hotel room expenses pertaining to job-related training;
      (2)   Fees associated with job-related training;
      (3)   Town supplies, materials, small tools and minor equipment not
exceeding the materiality threshold of $500.
   (C)   Department Superintendents shall provide Clerk-Treasurer a receipt/
invoice for which purchase was made, along with a signed claim form (accounts
payable voucher).
   (D)   Any and all charges incurred shall be paid in full every billing
cycle. Credit card claims shall be reviewed and signed by Town Council.
   (E)   When not in use, the town credit card shall be kept in a secure
location in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2020-13, passed 9-8-2020; Ord. 2021-19, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 31.06 PRE-APPROVED PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is authorized to make claim payments
in advance of Council allowance for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   Federal grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (3)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (4)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (5)   Principal and interest payable on bonds;
      (6)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (7)   Licenses or permit fees;
      (8)   Insurance premiums;
      (9)   Payroll and all employee funds withheld from his/her pay;
      (10)   Federal, state, or county taxes;
      (11)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (12)   Expenses described in an ordinance;
      (13)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (14)   Fuel bills;
      (15)   Park deposit refund or park rental cancellation refund; or
      (16)   Any claim that will incur a late charge if the due date falls
before a scheduled Council meeting.
   (B)   Each payment of expense under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Fiscal Officer or
Board.
   (C)   The Town Council or Board having jurisdiction over the allowance of
the claim shall review and allow the claim at its next regular or special
meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Res. 2022-10, passed 2-2-2023)
§ 31.07 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this investment policy (the "policy") is to
set forth the investment objectives and parameters for the management of public
funds of the town. This policy is designed to safeguard funds on behalf of the
town, to assure the availability of funds when needed, and provide a
competitive investment return.
   (B)   Scope. This policy applies to the investment of all funds of the town,
including but not limited to the funds controlled by the Redevelopment
Commission. The town may consolidate fund balances to increase investment
earnings and to increase efficiencies with regard to investment pricing,
banking fees and administration.
   (C)   General objectives. The primary objectives, in priority order, of
investment activities shall be safety, liquidity, and return:
      (1)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital. The objective will be to minimize credit
risk and interest rate risk.
         (a)   Credit risk. The town will minimize credit risk, which is the
risk of loss due to the failure of the security issuer or backer, by limiting
investments to the types of securities listed in division (F).
         (b)   Interest rate risk. The town will minimize interest rate risk,
which is the risk that the market value of securities in the portfolio will
fall due to changes in market interest rates, by structuring the investment
portfolio so that securities mature to meet cash requirements for ongoing
operations, thereby avoiding the need to sell securities prior to maturity.
      (2)   Liquidity. The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently
liquid to meet all operating requirements that may be reasonably anticipated.
This is accomplished by structuring the portfolio so that securities mature
concurrent with cash needs to meet anticipated demands. Furthermore, since all
possible cash demands cannot be anticipated, a portion of the portfolio may be
placed in money market mutual funds or government investment pools which offer
same day liquidity for short-term funds.
      (3)   Return. The investment portfolio shall be designed with the
objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout budgetary and
economic cycles, taking into account the investment risk constraints and
liquidity needs. Return on investment is of secondary importance compared to
the safety and liquidity objectives described above. The core of investments is
limited to relatively low risk securities in anticipation of earning a fair
return relative to the risk being assumed.
   (D)   Standards of care.
      (1)   Delegation of authority. The Clerk-Treasurer, hereinafter referred
to as the "Investment Officer," shall be responsible to oversee the day-to-day
management of the town's investments. The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep the Town
Council and Redevelopment Commission informed as to the status of any and all
of the town's investments. The Clerk-Treasurer shall work with the Council
President and the Commission President to maintain the town's investments upon
authorization of the Town Council and Redevelopment Commission. Should the town
or Redevelopment Commission elect to select an outside investment advisor, such
advisor or firm must be registered under the Investment Advisor's Act of 1940.
      (2)   Prudence. The standard of prudence to be used by the Investment
Officer shall be the "prudent person" standard and shall be applied in the
context of managing all funds of the town. The "prudent person" standard states
that "investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the
probable income to be derived."
      (3)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. The Investment Officer and
employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from personal
business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and management
of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to make impartial
decisions. The Investment Officer and employees shall disclose any material
interests in financial institutions with which they conduct business. They
shall further disclose any personal financial/investment positions that could
be related to the performance of the investment portfolio.
   (E)   Authorized financial institutions and broker/dealers.
      (1)   Authorized financial institutions and broker/dealers.
         (a)   A list will be maintained of local financial institutions that
are approved depositories for the receipt of public funds according to the
Indiana State Board for Depositories. The town may pass a resolution pursuant
to I.C. 5-13-9-5 expanding the list of approved financial institutions to
include all Indiana depositories approved for the receipt of public funds
according to the Indiana State Board for Depositories.
         (b)   In addition, the town will only use broker/dealers that meet the
following requirements:
            1.   Primary dealers or regional dealers that qualify under
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15c3-l (Net Capital Rule);
            2.   Capital of no less than $10,000,000;
            3.   Registered as a dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934;
            4.   A member of the National Association of Securities Dealers
(NASD);
            5.   Proof of state registration.
   (F)   Suitable and authorized investments. 
      (1)   Consistent with I.C. 5-13-9, the following investments will be
permitted by this policy when authorized by the Town Council:
         (a)   Securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United
States Treasury or fully guaranteed by the United States and issued by any of
the following (see I.C. 5-13-9-2(a)(1)):
            1.   The United States Treasury.
            2.   A federal agency.
            3.   A federal instrumentality.
            4.   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
         (b)   Securities fully guaranteed and issued by any of the following
(see I.C. 5- 13-9-2(a)(2)):
            1.   A federal agency.
            2.   A federal instrumentality.
            3.   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
         (c)   Municipal securities issued by an Indiana local governmental
entity, a quasi-governmental entity related to the state, a unit of government,
municipal corporation, or special taxing district in Indiana, or a nonprofit
building corporation created by a municipal corporation, if the issuer has not
defaulted on any of the issuer's obligations within the 20 years preceding the
date of the purchase (see I.C. 5-13-9-2(a)(3)).
         (d)   Money market mutual funds rated AAAm, or its equivalent, by
Standard and Poor's Corporation or Aaa, or its equivalent, by Moody's Investors
Service, Inc (see I.C. 5-13-9- 2.5).
         (e)   Repurchase agreements (see I.C. 5-13-9-3).
         (f)   Investment in obligations issued, assumed, or guaranteed by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Redevelopment or the African
Development Bank (see I.C. 5-13-9-3.3).
         (g)   Investment in participation loans (see I.C. 5-13-9-3.5).
         (h)   Transaction accounts, certificates of deposit and deposit
accounts issued or offered by a designated depository of the Town of
Brookville's political subdivision. The Investment Officer making a deposit in
a certificate of deposit shall obtain quotes from each designated depository in
accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-4(b) (see I.C. 5-13-9-4).
         (i)   Certificates of deposit authorized by ordinance or resolution of
the Town Council (see I.C. 5-13-9-5 and/or 5-13-9-5.3).
         (j)   Local government investment pools (see I.C. 5-13-9-11).
      (2)   Consistent with I.C. 36-1-7, the town may pass a resolution to
enter into interlocal cooperation agreements for the joint exercise of powers,
including the investment of public funds.
   (G)   Investment parameters.
      (1)   Maximum maturities.
         (a)   The town's investments must have a stated final maturity of not
more than two years pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.6. Because of inherent
difficulties in accurately forecasting cash flow requirements, a portion of the
town's funds should be continuously invested in readily available funds such as
bank transaction accounts, local government investment pools, money market
funds, or overnight repurchase agreements to ensure that appropriate liquidity
is maintained to meet ongoing obligations.
         (b)   The Town Council may, by ordinance, adopt an investment policy
pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.7 authorizing its Investment Officer to make
investments having a stated final maturity that is more than two years but not
more than five years after the date of purchase. The total investments of the
town with maturities of two to five years outstanding at the time of purchase
may not exceed 25% of its total portfolio of public funds invested, including
balances in transaction accounts. Such ordinance expires on the date on which
this policy expires, which may not exceed four years.
      (2)   Competitive bids. The Investment Officer or their designee shall
obtain competitive bids for investment with financial institutions in
accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-4. The Investment Officer or their designee shall
obtain bids from at least two brokers or financial institutions on all
purchases of investment instruments on the secondary market. Overnight sweep
investment instruments shall not be subject to this section. Quotes may be
solicited and taken by telephone and a memorandum of all quotes solicited and
taken shall be retained by the Investment Officer as a public record of the
town under I.C. 5-14-3.
   (H)   Policy considerations.
      (1)   Adoption and expiration. This policy shall be adopted by the Town
Council at a public meeting and shall expire four years from the date of
adoption in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7.
      (2)   Exemption. Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy.
      (3)   Amendments. This policy shall be reviewed and updated periodically.
Any changes must be approved by ordinance of the Town Council.
      (4)   Redevelopment Commission funds. Funds controlled by the
Redevelopment Commission may only be utilized for redevelopment purposes. These
funds may be invested with the idea that any growth realized will be put toward
future projects of the Redevelopment Commission. Investment of funds controlled
by the Redevelopment Commission does not remove the requirement that said funds
may only be used for redevelopment purposes.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 31.08 GRANT APPLICATIONS.
   Any grant application for a grant that would require matching funds from the
town may not be submitted by anyone on behalf of the town until the submission
of said grant application has been approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 31.09 COST PRINCIPLES FOR SPENDING FEDERAL FUNDS.
   (A)   Implementation. The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for the efficient
and effective administration of grant funds through the application of sound
management practices. Such funds shall be administered in a manner consistent
with all applicable federal, state and local laws, the associated agreements or
assurances, program objectives and the specific terms and conditions of the
grant award.
   (B)   Cost principles. The total cost of a federal award is the sum of the
allocable direct and allocable indirect costs less any applicable credits.
Applicable credits refer to those receipts or reduction of expenditure type
transactions that offset or reduce expense items allocable to the federal
award. Except where otherwise authorized by statute, costs shall meet the
following general criteria in order to be allowable under federal awards:
      (1)   (a)   Be necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient
performance and administration of the federal award and be allocable thereto
under these principles. A cost is reasonable if, in its nature and amount, it
does not exceed that which would be incurred by a prudent person under the
circumstances prevailing at the time the decision was made to incur the cost.
To determine whether a cost is reasonable, consideration shall be given to:
            1.   Whether a cost is of a type generally recognized as ordinary
and necessary for the operation of the town or the proper and efficient
performance of the federal award;
            2.   The restraints or requirements imposed by such factors as
sound business practices, arm's length bargaining, federal, state, local,
tribal and other laws and regulations, and terms and conditions of the federal
award;
            3.   Market prices for comparable goods or services for the
geographic area;
            4.   Whether the individuals concerned acted with prudence in the
circumstances considering their responsibilities to the town, its employees,
the public at large, and the federal government;
            5.   Whether the town significantly deviates from its established
practices and policies regarding the incurrence of costs, which may
unjustifiably increase the federal award's cost.
         (b)   Whether a cost is necessary is determined based on the needs of
the program. The expenditure must be necessary to achieve an important program
objective. A key aspect in determining whether a cost is necessary is whether
the town can demonstrate that the cost addresses an existing need. To determine
whether a cost is necessary, consideration may be given to whether:
            1.   The cost is needed for the proper and efficient performance of
the grant program;
            2.   The cost is identified in the approved budget or application;
            3.   There is a benefit to the town or its citizens associated with
the cost;
            4.   The cost aligns with identified needs based on results and
findings from a needs assessment; and
            5.   The cost addresses program goals and objectives and is based
on program data.
         (c)   A cost is allocable to the federal award or other cost objective
if the goods or services involved are chargeable or assignable to the federal
award or cost objective in accordance with relative benefits received. This
standard is met if the cost:
            1.   Is incurred specifically for the federal award;
            2.   Benefits both the federal award and other work of the town and
can be distributed in proportions that may be approximated using reasonable
methods; and
            3.   Is necessary to the overall operation of the town and is
assignable in part to the federal award in accordance with the foregoing cost
principles.
      (2)   Conform to any limitations or exclusions set forth in these cost
principles or in the federal award as to types or amount of cost items.
      (3)   Be consistent with policies and procedures that apply uniformly to
both federally financed and other activities of the town.
      (4)   Be accorded consistent treatment. A cost may not be assigned to a
federal award as a direct cost if any other cost incurred for the same purpose
in like circumstances has been allocated to the federal award as an indirect
cost.
      (5)   Be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.
      (6)   Not be included as a cost or used to meet cost sharing or matching
requirements of any other federally-financed program in either the current or a
prior period, unless specifically authorized by the federal award.
      (7)   Be adequately documented:
         (a)   With respect to personal services, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
implement a system for town personnel to account for time and efforts expended
on grant funded programs to assure that only permissible personnel expenses are
allocated;
         (b)   All other cost receipts and other invoice materials shall be
retained, along with any documentation identifying the need and purpose for
each expenditure if not otherwise clear.
      (8)   Be incurred during the approved budget period. The budget period
means the time interval from the start date of a funded portion of an award to
the end date of that funded portion during which recipients are authorized to
expend the funds awarded, including any funds carried forward or other
revisions pursuant to law. Prior written approval from the federal awarding
agency or state pass through entity may be required to carry forward
unobligated balances to subsequent budget periods unless waived.
   (C)   Selected items of cost. The town shall follow the rules for selected
items of cost at 2 C.F.R. Part 200, Subpart E when charging these specific
expenditures to a federal grant. When applicable, town staff shall check costs
against the selected items of cost requirements to ensure the cost is
allowable. In addition, state, town and program-specific rules, including the
terms and conditions of the award, may deem a cost as unallowable, and town
personnel shall follow those rules as well.
   (D)   Cost compliance. The Clerk-Treasurer shall require that grant program
funds are expended and are accounted for consistent with the requirements of
the specific program and as identified in the grant application. Compliance
monitoring includes accounting for direct or indirect costs and reporting them
as permitted or required by each grant. Costs incurred for the same purpose in
like circumstances shall be treated consistently as either direct or indirect
costs, but may not be double charged or inconsistently charged as both.
   (E)   Determining whether a cost is direct or indirect.
      (1)   (a)   Direct costs are those costs that can be identified
specifically with a particular final cost objective, such as a federal award,
or other internally or externally funded activity, or that can be directly
assigned to such activities relatively easily with a high degree of accuracy.
Identification with the federal award rather than the nature of the goods and
services involved is the determining factor in distinguishing direct from
indirect costs of federal awards.
         (b)   Typical costs charged directly to a federal award are the
compensation of employees who work on that award, their related fringe benefit
costs, the costs of materials and other items of expense incurred for the
federal award. If directly related to a specific award, certain costs that
otherwise would be treated as indirect costs may also be considered direct
costs. Examples include extraordinary utility consumption, the cost of
materials supplied from stock or services rendered by specialized facilities,
program evaluation costs, or other institutional service operations.
      (2)   (a)   Indirect costs are those costs incurred for a common or joint
purpose benefitting more than one cost objective, and not readily assignable to
the cost objectives specifically benefitted, without effort disproportionate to
the results achieved.
         (b)   These costs may include general data processing, human
resources, utility costs, maintenance and accounting and other costs of that
nature.
         (c)   The salaries of administrative and clerical staff should
normally be treated as indirect costs. Direct charging of these costs may be
appropriate only if all of the following conditions are met:
            1.   Administrative or clerical services are integral to a project
or activity;
            2.   Individuals involved can be specifically identified with the
project or activity;
            3.   Such costs are explicitly included in the budget or have the
prior written approval of the federal awarding agency; and
            4.   The costs are not also recovered as indirect costs.
   (F)   Timely obligation of funds.
      (1)   Financial obligations, when referencing a recipient's or
subrecipient's use of funds under a federal award, means orders placed for
property and services, contracts and subawards made, and similar transactions
that require payment. The following illustrates when funds are determined to be
obligated.
      (2)   If the obligation if for:
         (a)   Acquisition of property on the date when the town makes a
binding written commitment to acquire the property;
         (b)   Personal services by an employee of the town when the services
are performed; personal services by a contractor who is not an employee of the
town on the date when the town makes a binding written commitment to obtain the
services;
         (c)   Performance of work other that personal services on the date
when the town makes a binding written commitment to obtain work;
         (d)   Public utility services when the town receives the services;
         (e)   Travel when the travel is taken;
         (f)   Rental of property when the town uses the property;
         (g)   A properly approved pre-agreement cost on the first day of the
project period.
   (G)   Period of performance.
      (1)   Period of performance means the total estimated time interval
between the start of an initial federal award and the planned end date, which
may include one or more funded portions, or budget periods. The period of
performance is dictated by statute and will be indicated in the grant award
notification. As a general rule, state administrated federal funds are
available for obligation within the year for which Congress appropriated the
funds. Any obligations under a grant may not be made until the grant funding
period begins or all necessary materials are submitted to the granting agency,
whichever is later. In the case of a direct grant, obligations may begin when
the grant is approved, unless an agreement exists with the State Board of
Accounts or the pass-through entity to reimburse for pre-approved expenses.
      (2)   Unless the federal awarding agency or pass-through entity
authorizes an extension, the town must liquidate all financial obligations
incurred under the federal award no later than 120 calendar days after the end
date of the period of performance as specified in the terms and conditions of
the federal award.
      (3)   The town must promptly refund any balances of unobligated cash that
the federal awarding agency or pass-through entity paid in advance or paid and
that are not authorized to be retained by the town for use in other projects.
   (H)   Validity of policy. This cost principles for spending federal funds
policy is and shall be valid upon adoption and publication as required by law
and shall remain valid indefinitely.
(Ord. 2025-16, passed 9-2-2025)
*** PURCHASING AGENCY ***
§ 31.15 PURCHASING AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   The Town Council hereby determines that the purchasing agency for the town
is the Town Council.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 7-28-1998)
§ 31.16 PURCHASING AGENTS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby designates the following persons to serve as
purchasing agents for the town:
      (1)   The Town Council;
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   The Town Marshal;
      (4)   The Utility Superintendent;
      (5)   The Street Superintendent;
      (6)   The Director of Golf; and
      (7)   Those additional town employees or other persons who are designated
in writing by the Town Council from time to time.
   (B)   A person or persons designated as a purchasing agent(s) may purchase
supplies and/or services without first getting approval from the Town Council
(purchasing agency) so long as the funding for said purchase has previously
been budgeted by the Town Council and by following the rules and procedures
established by the Indiana Code and/or this code including, but not limited to,
§§
31.17 through
31.21, as the same may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Any purchases by a purchasing agent that utilize federal funds shall
be made in compliance with all federal rules and regulations including, but not
limited to, 2 C.F.R. Parts 200.318 to 200.326, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 7-28-1998; Ord. 2022-10, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2025-21,
passed 11-17-2025)
§ 31.17 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES UNDER $50,000 BY PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   The Utility Superintendent and the Street Superintendent may purchase
supplies under $50,000 pursuant to the following procedures:
      (1)   For supplies with an estimated cost between $0 and $5,000, said
purchasing agents are encouraged to invite three written quotes for the
supplies and the purchasing agents have the authority to select the lowest
responsible and responsive bidder from the quotes received.
      (2)   For supplies with an estimated cost between $5,001 and $10,000,
said purchasing agents are required to invite three written quotes for the
supplies and the purchasing agents have the authority to select the lowest
responsible and responsive bidder from the quotes received.
      (3)   For supplies with an estimated cost between $10,001 and $49,999,
the purchasing agents are required to invite at least three sealed quotes for
the supplies and said quotes must remain sealed until the next scheduled
meeting of the Town Council. At said meeting, the sealed quotes will be opened
and the Town Council will select the lowest responsible and responsive bidder
from the quotes received.
   (B)   All other purchasing agents may purchase supplies under $50,000
pursuant to the following procedures:
      (1)   For supplies with an estimated cost between $0 and $1,500, said
purchasing agents are encouraged to invite three written quotes for the
supplies and the purchasing agents have the authority to select the lowest
responsible and responsive bidder from the quotes received.
      (2)   For supplies with an estimated cost between $1,501 and $3,000, said
purchasing agents are required to invite three written quotes for the supplies
and the purchasing agents have the authority to select the lowest responsible
and responsive bidder from the quotes received.
      (3)   For supplies with an estimated cost between $3,001 and $49,999, the
purchasing agents are required to invite at least three sealed quotes for the
supplies and said quotes must remain sealed until the next scheduled meeting of
the Town Council. At said meeting, the sealed quotes will be opened and the
Town Council will select the lowest responsible and responsive bidder from the
quotes received.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 7-28-1998; Ord. 2022-10, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2025-21,
passed 11-17-2025)
§ 31.18 PURCHASE OF SERVICES BY PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   The Utility Superintendent and the Street Superintendent may purchase
services pursuant to the following procedures:
      (1)   For services with an estimated cost between $0 and $5,000, said
purchasing agents are encouraged to invite three written quotes for the
services and the purchasing agents have the authority to select the lowest
responsible and responsive bidder from the quotes received.
      (2)   For services with an estimated cost between $5,001 and $10,000,
said purchasing agents are required to invite three written quotes for the
services and the purchasing agents have the authority to select the lowest
responsible and responsive bidder from the quotes received.
      (3)   For services with an estimated cost in excess of $10,000, the
purchasing agents are required to invite at least three sealed quotes for the
services and said quotes must remain sealed until the next scheduled meeting of
the Town Council. At said meeting, the sealed quotes will be opened and the
Town Council will select the lowest responsible and responsive bidder from the
quotes received.
   (B)   All other purchasing agents may purchase services pursuant to the
following procedures:
      (1)   For services with an estimated cost between $0 and $1,500, said
purchasing agents are encouraged to invite three written quotes for the
services and the purchasing agents have the authority to select the lowest
responsible and responsive bidder from the quotes received.
      (2)   For services with an estimated cost between $1,501 and $3,000, said
purchasing agents are required to invite three written quotes for the services
and the purchasing agents have the authority to select the lowest responsible
and responsive bidder from the quotes received.
      (3)   For services with an estimated cost in excess of $3,000, the
purchasing agents are required to invite at least three sealed quotes for the
services and said quotes must remain sealed until the next scheduled meeting of
the Town Council. At said meeting, the sealed quotes will be opened and the
Town Council will select the lowest responsible and responsive bidder from the
quotes received.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 7-28-1998; Ord. 2025-21, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 31.19 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
purchases and shall be purchased unless the town determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds by
an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparable priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 7-28-1998)
§ 31.20 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION.
   (A)   The town shall purchase supplies and services produced or manufactured
by the Department of Collection as listed in the Department’s printed catalog
unless the supplies and services cannot be furnished in a timely manner.
   (B)   Supplies and services purchased from the Department of Correction must
meet the specifications and needs of the town and be at a fair market price.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 7-28-1998)
§ 31.21 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES FROM THE REHABILITATION CENTER.
   The town shall purchase articles produced by the State Rehabilitation Center
for the blind and visually impaired under the same conditions as articles
produced by the Department of Correction, unless similar articles are produced
by the governmental body.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 7-28-1998)
CHAPTER 32: GENERAL TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   All hazard mitigation plan
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
32.15   Intention; purpose
   
32.16   Risk assessment
   
32.17   Detection (red flags)
   
32.18   Response
   
32.19   Personal information security procedures
Police Department Administrative Policy and Fees
   
32.30   Reports
   
32.31   Vehicle identification number verification
   
32.32   Towing of vehicles
   
32.33   False alarms
   
32.34   Vehicle lock out service
   
32.35   Accounting of fees
Capital Asset Policy
   
32.40   General information
   
32.41   Definition of capital assets
   
32.42   Threshold levels for capital assets
   
32.43   Valuation of capital assets
   
32.44   Asset definitions by major category
   
32.45   Depreciation methods
   
32.46   Capital asset acquisitions
   
32.47   Asset transfers and dispositions
   
32.48   Periodic inventories
   
32.49   Responsibilities of Clerk-Treasurer's Office
   
32.50   Responsibilities of department heads
Remote Participation
   
32.70   Remote participation in meetings for regular business and during
certain emergencies
Rules for Public Participation
   
32.90   Quorum and authorization
   
32.91   Meetings
   
32.92   Regular meetings
   
32.93   Special meeting
   
32.94   Officers of the Town Council
   
32.95   Duties of Secretary
   
32.96   Agenda
   
32.97   Public input at public hearings and public meetings
   
32.98   Order of business at regular meetings
   
32.99   Prior rules
   
32.100   Conflict with state law
   
32.101   Suspension of the rules
   
32.102   Amendments
*** GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
§ 32.01 ALL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The county’s all hazard mitigation plan is hereby adopted as the official
plan of the county.
(Res. 1-2009, passed 1-13-2009)
*** IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM ***
§ 32.15 INTENTION; PURPOSE.
   This plan is intended to identity red flags that will alert employees when
new or existing accounts are opened using false information, protect against
the establishment of false accounts, methods to ensure existing accounts were
not opened using false information and measures to respond to such events.
(Res. 3-2009, passed 3-10-2009)
§ 32.16 RISK ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The town has conducted an internal risk assessment to evaluate how at
risk the current procedures are at allowing customers to create a fraudulent
account and evaluate if current (existing) accounts are being manipulated. This
risk assessment evaluated how new accounts were opened and the methods used to
access the account information.
   (B)   Using this information, the utility was able to identify red flags
that were appropriate to prevent identity theft:
      (1)   New accounts opened in person;
      (2)   New accounts opened via telephone;
      (3)   New accounts opened via fax;
      (4)   New accounts opened via web;
      (5)   Account information accessed in person;
      (6)   Account information accessed via telephone (person);
      (7)   Account information is accessed via telephone (automated);
      (8)   Account information is accessed via web site; and
      (9)   Identity theft occurred in the past from someone falsely opening a
utility account.
(Res. 3-2009, passed 3-10-2009)
§ 32.17 DETECTION (RED FLAGS).
   (A)   The town adopts the following red flags to detect potential fraud.
   (B)   These are not intended to be all-inclusive and other suspicious
activity may be investigated as necessary:
      (1)   Fraud or active duty alerts included with consumer reports;
      (2)   Notice of credit freeze provided by consumer reporting agency;
      (3)   Notice of address discrepancy provided by consumer reporting
agency;
      (4)   Inconsistent activity patterns indicated by consumer report such
as:
         (a)   Recent and significant increase in volume of inquiries;
         (b)   Unusual number of recent credit applications;
         (c)   A material change in use of credit; and
         (d)   Accounts closed for cause or abuse.
      (5)   Identification documents appear to be altered;
      (6)   Photo and physical description do not match appearance of the
applicant;
      (7)   Other information is inconsistent with information provided by the
applicant;
      (8)   Other information provided by the applicant is inconsistent with
information on file;
      (9)   Application appears altered or destroyed and reassembled;
      (10)   Personal information provided by the applicant does not match
other sources of information (e.g., credit reports, Social Security number not
issued or listed as deceased);
      (11)   Lack of correlation between the Social Security number range and
date of birth;
      (12)   Information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity
(e.g., address or phone number provided is same as that of a fraudulent
application);
      (13)   Information commonly associated with fraudulent activity is
provided by the applicant (e.g., address that is a mail drop or prison, non-
working phone number or associated with answering service/pager);
      (14)   Social Security number, address or telephone number is the same as
that of other customer at utility;
      (15)   The customer fails to provide all information requested;
      (16)   Personal information provided is inconsistent with information on
file for a customer;
      (17)   The applicant cannot provide information requested beyond what
could commonly be found in a purse or wallet; and
      (18)   Identity theft is reported or discovered.
(Res. 3-2009, passed 3-10-2009)
§ 32.18 RESPONSE.
   (A)   Any employee that may suspect fraud or detect a red flag will
implement the following response as applicable.
   (B)   All detections or suspicious red flags shall be reported to the senior
management official:
      (1)   Ask the applicant for additional documentation;
      (2)   Notify internal manager: any utility employee who becomes aware of
a suspected or actual fraudulent use of a customer or potential customers
identity must notify                        ;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement: the utility will notify                 at
           of any attempted or actual identity theft;
      (4)   Do not open the account;
      (5)   Close the account; and
      (6)   Do not attempt to collect against the account, but notify
authorities.
(Res. 3-2009, passed 3-10-2009)
§ 32.19 PERSONAL INFORMATION SECURITY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The town adopts the following security procedures.
   (B)   A report will be prepared annually and submitted to the named senior
management or governing body to include matter related to the program, the
effectiveness of the policies and procedures, the oversight and effectiveness
of any third party billing and account establishment entities, a summary of any
identify theft incidents and the response to the incident, and recommendations
for substantial changes to the program, if any.
   (C)   The following suggestions are not part of or required by the Federal
Trade Commission’s “Identity Theft Red Flags Rule”. The following is a list of
other security procedures a utility should consider to protect consumer
information and to prevent unauthorized access. Implementation of selected
actions below according to the unique circumstances of utilities is a good
management practice to protect personal consumer data.
      (1)   Paper documents, files and electronic media containing secure
information will be stored in locked file cabinets. File cabinets will be
stored in a locked room.
      (2)   Only specially identified employees with a legitimate need will
have keys to the room and cabinet.
      (3)   Files containing personally identifiable information are kept in
locked file cabinets, except when an employee is working on the file.
      (4)   Employees will not leave sensitive papers out on their desks when
they are away from their workstations.
      (5)   Employees store files when leaving their work areas.
      (6)   Employees log off their computers when leaving their work areas.
      (7)   Employees lock file cabinets when leaving their work areas.
      (8)   Employees lock file room doors when leaving their work areas.
      (9)   Access to off-site storage facilities is limited to employees with
a legitimate business need.
      (10)   Any sensitive information shipped using outside carriers or
contractors will be encrypted.
      (11)   Any sensitive information shipped will be shipped using a shipping
service that allows tracking of the delivery of this information.
      (12)   Visitors who must enter areas where sensitive files are kept must
be escorted by an employee of the utility.
      (13)   No visitor will be given any entry codes or allowed unescorted
access to the office.
      (14)   Access to sensitive information will be controlled using “strong”
passwords. Employees will choose passwords with a mix of letters, numbers and
characters. User names and passwords will be different. Passwords will be
changed at least monthly.
      (15)   Passwords will not be shared or posted near workstations.
      (16)   Password-activated screen savers will be used to lock employee
computers after a period of inactivity.
      (17)   When installing new software, immediately change vendor-supplied
default passwords to a more secure strong password.
      (18)   Sensitive consumer data will not be stored on any computer with an
internet connection.
      (19)   Sensitive information that is sent to third parties over public
networks will be encrypted.
      (20)   Sensitive information that is stored on computer network or
portable storage devices used by employees will be encrypted.
      (21)   Email transmissions within the business will be encrypted if they
contain personally identifying information.
      (22)   Anti-virus and anti-spyware programs will be run on individual
computers and on servers daily.
      (23)   When sensitive data is received or transmitted, secure connections
will be used.
      (24)   Computer passwords will be required.
      (25)   User names and passwords will be different.
      (26)   Passwords will be changed at least monthly.
      (27)   Passwords will not be shared or posted near workstations.
      (28)   Password-activated screen savers will be used to lock employee
computers after a period of inactivity.
      (29)   When installing new software, vendor-supplied default passwords
are changed.
      (30)   The use of laptops is restricted to those employees who need them
to perform their jobs.
      (31)   Laptops are stored in secure places.
      (32)   Laptop users will not store sensitive information on their
laptops.
      (33)   Laptops which contain sensitive data will be encrypted.
      (34)   Employees never leave a laptop visible in a car, at a hotel
luggage stand or packed in checked luggage.
      (35)   If a laptop must be left in a vehicle, it is locked in a trunk.
      (36)   The computer network will have a firewall where the network
connects to the internet.
      (37)   Any wireless network in use is secured.
      (38)   Maintain central log files of security-related information to
monitor activity on the network.
      (39)   Monitor incoming traffic for signs of a data breach.
      (40)   Monitor outgoing traffic for signs of a data breach.
      (41)   Implement a breach response plan.
      (42)   Check references or do background checks before hiring employees
who will have access to sensitive data.
      (43)   New employees sign an agreement to follow your company’s
confidentiality and security standards for handling sensitive data.
      (44)   Access to customer’s personal identity information is limited to
employees with a “need to know”.
      (45)   Procedures exist for making sure that workers who leave the employ
or transfer to another part of the company no longer have access to sensitive
information.
      (46)   Implement a regular schedule of employee training.
      (47)   Employees will be alert to attempts at phone phishing.
      (48)   Employees are required to notify the general manager immediately
if there is a potential security breach, such as a lost or stolen laptop.
      (49)   Employees who violate security policy are subjected to discipline,
up to and including dismissal.
      (50)   Service providers notify the employers of any security incidents
they experience, even if the incidents may not have led to an actual compromise
of data.
      (51)   Paper records will be shredded before being placed into the trash.
      (52)   Paper shredders will be available at each desk in the office, next
to the photocopier and at the home of any employee doing work at home.
      (53)   Any data storage media will be disposed of by shredding, punching
holes in or incineration.
(Res. 3-2009, passed 3-10-2009)
*** POLICE DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY AND FEES ***
§ 32.30 REPORTS.
   (A)   Furnishing reports. The town Police Department shall promptly, on
demand, furnish to any person who has sustained any loss or damage by reason of
the injury or death of any person or damage to property caused by or resulting
from the operation, maintenance or use of any vehicle upon any public street or
highway the following information: the name and address of the owner and
operator of any vehicle involved in the accident; the license number and
description of any such vehicle involved in the accident; the time and place
such accident occurred; the names and addresses of any persons injured or
killed in the accident; and the names and addresses of any persons who were
witnesses to the accident.
   (B)   Written authorization. Any person entitled to the information listed
in division (A) above may obtain the same from the Police Department either in
person or through his or her duly authorized agent or attorney. The agent or
attorney shall first file with the Department a verified written authorization
signed by the person, attorney or agent so entitled to the information.
   (C)   Report processing fee. For any written report including but not
limited to accident reports, case reports, or ordinance reports that may be
requested from the Police Department, the Department shall be entitled to
charge a processing fee of $5 for each such report.
   (D)   Approval of Prosecuting or Town Attorney. Notwithstanding the above
divsions, if the County Prosecuting Attorney or the Town Attorney advises the
Department that, in their opinion, such information shall not be released to
any person because criminal charges have been filed or are in contemplation of
being filed against any person as a result of the accident, the Department
shall thereupon withhold any such information until its release is approved by
the Prosecuting Attorney or Town Attorney.
   (E)   Deposit of fees. The fee collected under this section shall be
deposited in the local continuing education fund.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-23-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Police administrative policy and fees, see I.C. 5-2-8-2
§ 32.31 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER VERIFICATION.
   (A)   Performing vehicle identification verification. A police officer of
the Police Department may, on demand, perform for any person a vehicle
identification verification as required by the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Vehicle identification processing fee: A processing fee of $5 shall be
assessed for each motor vehicle, semitrailer or recreational vehicle for which
a vehicle identification verification is performed. The fee shall be received
by the Office Manager at the Brookville Police Department or the officer
performing the inspection. A receipt shall be issued to the individual for each
and every inspection performed and shall be issued from the Departmental
receipts book currently used by the office staff. A processing fee is required
to be paid prior to the inspection being performed.
   (C)   Deposit of fees. The fee collected under this section shall be
deposited in the local continuing education fund.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-23-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Police administrative policy and fees, see I.C. 5-2-8-2
§ 32.32 TOWING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Vehicle tow processing fee. A processing fee of $15 shall be assessed
for any vehicle tow conducted by an officer of the Brookville Police
Department. This processing fee shall be applied for any vehicle towed due to
an ordinance violation, criminal violation or traffic law violation. The
processing fee shall be paid to the front office manager or on-duty officer of
the Brookville Police Department prior to retrieval of the vehicle from the
impound yard. The issued receipt from the Brookville Police Department needs to
be produced to the impound yard prior to the vehicle being released.
   (B)   Brookville Police Department shall forward the collected fees to the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a minimum of once per month.
   (C)   Deposit of fees. The fee collected shall be deposited into an account
known as the "Traffic Safety Fund", and it may be expended at the discretion of
the Chief of Police for any Department purposes reasonably related for the
prevention of traffic accidents and traffic violation enforcement.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-23-2021)
§ 32.33 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Any alarm user having more than two false alarms in a calendar year
shall pay a fine of $25 for each subsequent false alarm. This section and
penalties herein do not apply to facilities owned or leased by the Town of
Brookville. The Brookville Police Department may issue a notice of ordinance
violation after the second or subsequent false alarm has been made at the same
location. Such notice may be served in person or by certified mail to any
person who controls the property. For the purposes of violation accrual, a new
period shall start at the beginning of each calendar year. A fee will not be
applied to a false alarm related to an ongoing severe weather incident.
   (B)   In addition to the above penalties applicable to false alarms, five or
more delinquent fines for business false alarms shall become a lien against the
real estate wherein the business false alarms originated. The town through its
Code Enforcement Officer shall file a verified statement with the Auditor of
Franklin County listing the name of the owner of the real properly wherein the
business false alarms originated, the legal description of the premises as
shown on the records of the Auditor, the dates of the false alarms and the
amounts of the delinquent fines for each false alarm. The Auditor of Franklin
County shall assess the delinquent fines against the real estate and collect
the fines from the owner in the same manner as real estate taxes, pursuant to
I.C. 36-1-6-2. Additional fees shall be implemented equal to the cost of filing
a lien with the Franklin County Auditor's Office.
   (C)   The fines shall be paid to the Brookville Police Department within 30
days of the issuance of the citation. In the event that such payment is not
made within the prescribed period, the matter will be referred to the Town of
Brookville Attorney for appropriate legal proceedings.
   (D)   All fees collected shall be deposited into an account known as the
"Traffic Safety Fund", and it may be expended at the discretion of the Chief of
Police for any Department purposes reasonably related for the prevention of
traffic accidents and traffic violation enforcement.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-23-2021)
§ 32.34 VEHICLE LOCK OUT SERVICE.
   The Brookville Police Department will perform lock outs to vehicles only
under the circumstances surrounding an active emergency. Examples are, but not
limited to, child locked in vehicle, animal locked in vehicle under severe
weather conditions and the like. Courtesy vehicle lock outs will no longer be
conducted by the Department. Local towing companies and locksmiths provide a
lock out service for the general public to utilize outside of an active
emergency.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-23-2021)
§ 32.35 ACCOUNTING OF FEES.
   (A)   When a fee is charged, the official should issue a receipt to the
payee (General Form 352).
   (B)   All fees shall be remitted to the Brookville Clerk-Treasurer on a
weekly basis.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue an official receipt for the remittance
specifying on such receipt the number of general receipts accounted for.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt the fees to the local Law
Enforcement Continuing Education Fund or the Traffic Safety Fund as designated
above.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-23-2021)
*** CAPITAL ASSET POLICY ***
§ 32.40 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The fixed asset policy is being issued retroactive effective January
1, 2019. The new policy will be referred to as the capital asset policy. This
policy is being issued to document the minimum value of capital assets to be
reported on our financial reports and to include infrastructure assets. This
issuance of a policy document is related to the implementation of a new
reporting model, "Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement 34."
Statement 34 will require the town to depreciate capital assets. The capital
asset threshold will be $5,000. An asset with a value under $5,000 will be
expensed in the year of purchase.
   (B)   The town stormwater utility will follow this same definition of
capital assets except any item with a unit cost of $5,000 or more shall be
capitalized. Assets that are not capitalized (items less than $5,000) are
expensed in the year of acquisition. The town stormwater utility will follow
the capitalization guidelines of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (C)   The Town of Brookville is, by this subchapter, establishing a capital
asset policy in order to provide a higher degree of control over its
considerable investment in capital assets, and to be able to demonstrate
accountability to its various constituencies: citizens, ratepayers, oversight
bodies and regulators. All public information pertaining to capital assets will
be made available in the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR).
   (D)   The purpose of establishing a capital policy is fivefold:
      (1)   To safeguard the investments of the citizens of Brookville;
      (2)   To fix responsibility for the custody of equipment;
      (3)   To provide a basis for formulating capital asset acquisition,
maintenance and retirement polices;
      (4)   To provide data for financial reporting; and
      (5)   To demonstrate appropriate stewardship responsibility for public
assets.
   (E)   This policy will only serve to classify capital assets, including
fixed and infrastructure, for accuracy in financial reporting through the
Indiana State Board of Accounts. It does not include data processing,
programming requirements, or computer operations procedures.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 32.41 DEFINITION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets include land, land improvements (including monuments),
buildings, building improvements, construction in progress, machinery and
equipment, vehicles and infrastructure. All land will be capitalized but not
depreciated. All items with a useful life of more than one year and having a
unit cost of $5,000 or more shall be capitalized (including acquisitions by
lease-purchase agreements and donated items). A capital asset meeting the
criteria will be reported and depreciated in the government-wide financial
statements. Assets that are not capitalized (items less than $5,000) are
expensed in the year of acquisition. An inventory will be kept on all computers
and other equipment with a capitalized cost of less than $5,000 (see §
32.46).
   (B)   Exceptions are:
      (1)   Items costing less than the above limits which are permanently
installed as a part of the cost of original construction or installation of a
larger building or equipment unit will be included in the cost of the larger
unit;
      (2)   Modular equipment added subsequent to original equipment
construction of a larger building or equipment unit which may be put together
to form larger units costing more than the prescribed limits will be charged to
capital assets even though the cost of individual items is less than such
units; and
      (3)   Cabinets, shelving, bookcases, and similar items added subsequent
to original construction, which are custom made for a specific place and
adaptable elsewhere, will be capitalized.
   (C)   Purchases made using grant funds must comply with grant requirements
or the above procedures, whichever are the most restrictive.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 32.42 THRESHOLD LEVELS FOR CAPITAL ASSETS.
   The following schedule will be followed for the different types of capital
assets other than infrastructure assets:
Asset Type Capitalize/Depreciate
Asset Type                     Capitalize/Depreciate
Land                           All/capitalize only
Land improvements              Greater than $5,000
Building                       Greater than $5,000
Building improvements          Greater than $5,000
Construction in progress       All/capitalize only
Machinery and equipment        Greater than $5,000
Vehicle                        Greater than $5,000
Town stormwater utility assets Greater than $5,000
 
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 32.43 VALUATION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets must be recorded at actual cost. Normally the cost
recorded is the purchase price or construction costs of the asset, but also
included is any other reasonable and necessary costs incurred to place the
asset in its intended location and intended use. Such costs could include the
following:
      (1)   Legal and title fees and closing costs;
      (2)   Appraisal, negotiation and surveying fees;
      (3)   Damage payments;
      (4)   Land preparation and demolition costs;
      (5)   Architect, engineering and accounting fees;
      (6)   Insurance premiums during construction;
      (7)   Transportation charges; and
      (8)   Interest costs during construction.
   (B)   Donated or contributed assets should be recorded at their fair market
value on the date donated.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 32.44 ASSET DEFINITIONS BY MAJOR CATEGORY.
   It is important to the maintenance of accurate records that each asset
category be precisely defined and that all persons responsible for records
maintenance are fully aware of the categorization system. This section further
clarifies the asset definitions by major category.
   (A)   Land. Land is defined as specified land, lots, parcels, or acreage
including rights-of-way, owned by the Town of Brookville, its various
departments, boards or authorities, regardless of the method or date of
acquisition. Easements will not be included as the town does not own them, but
as an interest in land owned by another (i.e. property owner) that entitles its
holder to a specified limited use.
   (B)   Improvements other than buildings.
      (1)   Examples of town assets in this category are walks, parking areas
and drives, fencing, retaining walls, pools, fountains, planters, underground
sprinkler systems, and other similar items.
      (2)   Examples of town stormwater utility assets in this category are
storm sewers, dams, fences, intake pipes, and manholes.
   (C)   Buildings.
      (1)   All structures designed and erected to house equipment, services,
or functions are included. This includes systems, services, and fixtures within
the buildings, and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire escapes, canopies,
areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and all other such units that serve the
building.
      (2)   Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling, ventilating
and air handling systems, alarm systems, sound systems, surveillance systems,
passenger and freight elevators, escalators, built-in casework, walk-in coolers
and freezers, fixed shelving, and other fixed equipment are included with the
building, if owned.
      (3)   Communication antennas and/or towers are not included as buildings.
These are parts of the equipment units that they serve.
   (D)   Equipment. Equipment includes all other types of physical property
within the scope of the fixed asset management system not previously
classified. Included within this category are office mechanical equipment;
office furniture; appliances; furnishings; machinery items; maintenance
equipment; communication equipment; Police, Fire, Sanitation and Park
departments; laboratory equipment; vehicles; road equipment; aircraft;
emergency equipment; earth moving equipment; text equipment; civil defense
equipment; and data processing equipment. All supplies are excluded.
   (E)   Infrastructure.
      (1)   Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets that normally
can be preserved for a significant greater number of years than most capital
and that are normally stationary in nature. Examples include roads,
streetlights, traffic signals, drainage systems, and water systems.
Infrastructure assets do not include buildings, drives, parking lots or any
other examples given above that are incidental to property or access to the
property above.
      (2)   Additions and improvements to infrastructure, which increase the
capacity or efficiency of the asset, will be capitalized. Maintenance/repairs
will be considered as necessary to maintain the existing asset, and therefore
not capitalized. For example, patching, resurfacing, snow removal, and the like
are considered maintenance activities and will be expensed. Also, normal
department operating activities such as feasibility studies and preliminary
engineering and design will be expensed and not capitalized as an element of
the infrastructure asset.
   (F)   Retroactive asset reporting. The retroactive reporting requirements
for infrastructure of GASB 34 requires the town to report items put into
service from 1980 forward and gives the town the option to report items put
into service prior to 1980. The town will report only on items put into service
after 1980.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 32.45 DEPRECIATION METHODS.
   (A)   The town will be depreciating capital assets by using the straight-
line method. Salvage value will be determined on an asset-by-asset basis.
Depreciation will be calculated at fiscal year-end. Land is not depreciated
according to general accepted accounting principles. A network of assets is
composed of all assets that provide a service for government. A subsystem of a
network of assets is composed of all assets that make a similar portion or
segment of a network of assets. The following will be the breakdown of our
networks and subsystems:
 
Roads/Streets Network
   SubsysteTypes of streets
              Curbs and gutters
Traffic Components Network
   SubsysteTraffic signals (controls, loop detectors and sensors)
              Streetlights
 
   (B)   Straight-line depreciation.
      (1)   The following assets accounted for under the capital asset policy
will be depreciated using the straight-line method of depreciation. A gain or
loss on disposal will be recorded. The following is a list of the most common
useful lives:
Item Description Useful Life
Item Description                            Useful Life
Vehicles                                    5 years
Armored vehicles                            15 years
Office equipment                            5 years
Office furniture                            20 years
Heavy equipment                             10 years
Fire trucks (apparatus, pumper)             15 years
Buildings                                   50 years
Building components (HVAC systems, roofing) 20 years
Leasehold improvements                      Useful life of asset or lease term
                                            (whichever is shorter)
Land improvements: structure (parking lots, 20 years
athletic courts, swimming pools)
Land improvements: groundwork (golf
courses, athletic fields, landscaping and   20 years
fencing)
Outdoor equipment (playground equipment,    15 years
radio towers)
Grounds equipment (mowers, tractors,        15 years
attachments)
Computer hardware                           3 years
Computer software                           5 years
Streetlights                                35 years
Traffic signals                             25 years
Flood walls/gates                           50 years
Roads: gravel                               15 years
Roads: Portland cement concrete             30 years
Asphaltic concrete                          20 years
Brick or stone                              50 years
 
      (2)   The following assets accounted for by city utilities under the
capital asset policy will be depreciated using the straight-line method of
depreciation. A gain or loss on disposal will be recorded. The following is a
list of the most common useful lives:
Item Description Useful Life
Item Description                    Useful Life
   Water Utility
Buildings and improvements          50 years
Transmission and distribution mains 50 years
Meters                              25 years
Pumping equipment                   50 years
Water treatment equipment           50 years
Elevated storage                    75 years
Office equipment                    10 years
Machinery                           5 to 40 years
Hydrants                            50 years
Well equipment                      15 years
Wells                               50 years
Computer hardware                   5 years
Communications equipment            10 years
GPS                                 100 years
Clearwell                           100 years
   Wastewater Utility
Buildings and improvements          50 years
Sewer lines                         50 years
Lift station                        50 years
Treatment plant equipment           10 years
Office equipment                    10 years
Machinery                           6-20 years
Vehicles                            5 years
HVAC systems                        25 years
GPS                                 100 years
Computer hardware                   5 years
Computer software                   5 years
 
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 32.46 CAPITAL ASSET ACQUISITIONS.
   (A)   The method of acquisition is not a determining factor. Each department
should report items acquired by:
      (1)   Regular purchases;
      (2)   Lease purchase (see division (B) below);
      (3)   Construction by town personnel;
      (4)   Construction by an outside contractor;
      (5)   Resolution/condemnation;
      (6)   Donation/contribution;
      (7)   Addition to an existing asset;
      (8)   Transfer from another department;
      (9)   Trade or barter; and
      (10)   Annexation.
   (B)   (1)   Leased equipment should be capitalized if the lease agreement
meets any one of the following criteria:
         (a)   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by
the end of the lease term;
         (b)   The lease contains a bargain purchase option;
         (c)   The lease term is equal to 75% of the estimated economic life of
the leased property; or
         (d)   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception
of the lease, excluding executory costs, equals at least 90% of the fair value
of the leased property.
      (2)   Leases that do not meet any of the above criteria should be
recorded as an operating lease and reported in the notes of the financial
statements.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 32.47 ASSET TRANSFERS AND DISPOSITIONS.
   (A)   Property should not be transferred, turned-in for auction, or disposed
of without prior approval of the department head. A vehicle/equipment out-
processing checklist should be sent to the Town Clerk-Treasurer's Office in all
cases. This form is a dual-purpose form for transfer (defined as any movement
of an asset by virtue of change in location, either by account, department,
building, floor, or room) or retirement (disposal) of property. The main points
to be remembered when using this form are:
      (1)   Always provide sufficient detail to properly identify the asset,
most importantly the asset's tag number or town ID;
      (2)   Be accurate and do not overlook any of the needed entries;
      (3)   Write legibly;
      (4)   Complete each column for every asset listed on the form;
      (5)   Enter information in correct row, depending on whether you are
transferring or deleting an asset;
      (6)   Have the department head sign at the bottom of the form; and
      (7)   Return the form to the Town Clerk-Treasurer's Office.
   (B)   If an asset is stolen, the department should notify the Safety Manager
as well as the Town Clerk-Treasurer's Office.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 32.48 PERIODIC INVENTORIES.
   A physical inventory of all capital assets (any item over $5,000) will be
conducted in each department on or about December 31 of every year. The Town
Clerk-Treasurer's office will conduct spot checks on a random basis. Department
heads will be accountable for the capital asset inventory charged to their
departments by verifying a list of their capital assets at year-end.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 32.49 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CLERK-TREASURER'S OFFICE.
   The Fiscal Officer will ensure that accounting for capital assets is being
exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory, both initially and
periodically in subsequent years. The Fiscal Officer will further ensure that
the capital asset report will be updated annually to reflect additions,
retirements, and transfers and to reflect the new, annual capital asset balance
for financial reporting purposes and the annual and accumulated depreciation
calculation.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 32.50 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the department head to act as or designate
a steward for each piece of property. The steward will become the focal point
for questions regarding the availability, condition, and usage of the asset, as
well as the contact during the physical inventory process.
   (B)   The steward shall be designated as the person to record the receipt of
the asset, to examine the asset to make sure that no damage was incurred during
shipment and to make sure that the asset was received in working order.
   (C)   The steward is also responsible for arranging for the necessary
preventative maintenance and any needed repairs to keep the asset in working
condition. It is necessary to have a responsible person available for questions
that arise during a physical inventory or when someone wants to borrow the
asset. The steward ensures that the asset is used for the purpose for which it
was acquired and that there is no personal or unauthorized use. In addition,
the steward should report any property damage or theft.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-11-2020)
*** REMOTE PARTICIPATION ***
§ 32.70 REMOTE PARTICIPATION IN MEETINGS FOR REGULAR BUSINESS AND DURING
CERTAIN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the ordinary course of business, the following policy shall govern
remote/electronic participation:
      (1)   Subject to division (1)(a), a member of the governing body who is
not physically present at a meeting of the governing body may participate in a
meeting by any electronic means of communication that does the following:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other.
         (b)   Allows the public to simultaneously attend and observe the
meeting. However, this division does not apply to a meeting held in executive
session.
      (2)   A governing body member who participates in the meeting by an
electronic means of communication shall be considered present for purposes of
establishing a quorum but may participate in any final action taken at the
meeting only if the member can be seen and heard.
      (3)   A technological failure in an electronic means of communication
that disrupts or prevents:
         (a)   The simultaneous communication between a member who is not
physically present at the meeting and the governing body;
         (b)   A member of the public who is not present at the meeting from
attending and observing the meeting; or
         (c)   Does not prevent the governing body from conducting the meeting
or affect the validity of an action taken by the governing body at the meeting
if the sum of the governing body members physically present at the meeting and
the governing body members participating by electronic communication without
technological failure satisfy the quorum and (if a final action is taken) the
voting requirements of the governing body.
      (4)   All requirements under Indiana state law must be followed whether
or not referenced herein, but no more restrictive measures are adopted.
      (5)   For any meeting conducted with electronic participation the meeting
minutes shall include a statement of:
         (a)   The name of each member of the governing body who:
            1.   Was physically present at the place where the meeting was
conducted;
            2.   Participated in the meeting by using any electronic means of
communication; and
            3.   Was absent; and
         (b)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
            1.   Members of the governing body participated in the meeting; and
            2.   The public attended and observed the meeting, if the meeting
was not held in executive session.
      (6)   Members participating remotely shall be included in any roll call
and shall announce that they are participating remotely.
      (7)   All votes taken during a meeting under this section must be taken
by roll call vote.
      (8)   At least 50% of the members of the governing body must be
physically present at a meeting.
      (9)   A member of the governing body may not attend more than 50% of the
governing body's meetings in a calendar year by means of electronic
communication, unless the member's electronic participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (10)   A member of a governing body may not participate in a meeting of
the governing body by electronic communication if the governing body is
attempting to take final action to:
         (a)   Adopt a budget;
         (b)   Make a reduction in personnel;
         (c)   Initiate a referendum;
         (d)   Establish or increase a fee;
         (e)   Establish or increase a penalty;
         (f)   Use the governing body's eminent domain authority; or
         (g)   Establish, raise, or renew a tax.
      (11)   A governing body may not prohibit a member of the governing body
from attending consecutive meetings by electronic communication. A member may
attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by electronic
communication. A member shall physically attend at least one meeting between
sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication, unless
the member's absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (B)   In an emergency the following shall apply:
      (1)   This section applies only if:
         (a)   The governor declares a disaster emergency under I.C. 10-14-3-
12; or
         (b)   The executive (as defined in I.C. 36-1-2-5) of a political
subdivision declares a local disaster emergency under I.C. 10-14-3-29.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the members of a
governing body are not required to be physically present at a meeting until the
disaster emergency or local disaster emergency is terminated. The members of a
governing body may meet by any means of electronic communication, if the
following are satisfied:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members of the governing body
participate in the meeting by means of electronic communication or in person.
         (b)   The public is able to simultaneously attend and observe the
meeting. However, this division does not apply to a meeting held in executive
session.
         (c)   The minutes of an emergency meeting so held must include:
            1.   The name of each member of the governing body who:
               a.   Participated in the meeting by using any electronic means
of communication; and
               b.   Was absent; and
            2.   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
               a.   Members of the governing body participated in the meeting;
and
               b.   The public attended and observed the meeting, if the
meeting was not held in executive session.
      (3)   Members participating remotely shall be included in any roll call
and shall announce that they are participating remotely.
      (4)   All votes taken during a meeting under this section must be taken
by roll call vote.
(Res. 2022-3, passed 7-27-2022)
*** RULES FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION ***
§ 32.90 QUORUM AND AUTHORIZATION.
   A quorum consists of a majority of the entire membership of the Town Council
who are qualified to vote. Action of the Town Council is not official, unless
it is authorized, by a majority of the entire membership of the Town Council at
a regular or special meeting. In the event of two-to-two tie vote, the Clerk-
Treasurer may vote to break such tie.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
§ 32.91 MEETINGS.
   All meetings shall be open to the public, except as otherwise permitted by
law and will procedurally follow Roberts Rules of Order, as best as possible.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
§ 32.92 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings shall be held on the first and third Thursday of each
month, unless otherwise scheduled. A calendar of the regular meetings shall be
prepared at the beginning of each year and may be amended from time to time.
Meetings will be called to order at the discretion of the President at 7:00
p.m. at a location to be noticed. Regular meetings may be cancelled due to a
lack of any agenda items.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
§ 32.93 SPECIAL MEETING.
   Special meetings shall be held upon call of the President, Vice-President,
Clerk-Treasurer or as determined at a regular meeting. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall send to all members, at least two days in advance of a special meeting, a
written notice fixing the time and place of the meeting.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
§ 32.94 OFFICERS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The President and Vice-President shall be elected at the first regular
meeting held each year and will serve in their roles for a six month term to
expire on June 30 of the same year. Prior to June 30, the Council shall elect
the President and Vice-President for the remaining half of the calendar year
(July 1 through December 31).
   (B)   The President, subject to these rules, shall decide all points of
procedure unless otherwise directed by a majority of the members of the Town
Council.
   (C)   The Vice-President shall serve in the absence of the President.
   (D)   A temporary President shall be appointed in case both President and
Vice-President are absent.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Clerk-Treasurer, pursuant to Indiana
Code.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023; Res. 2023-3, passed 6-15-2023)
§ 32.95 DUTIES OF SECRETARY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall have the duties proscribed under Indiana law.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
§ 32.96 AGENDA.
   The Town Council may follow an agenda. If such an agenda is used, it must be
posted. The Town Council may deviate from such agenda at its discretion, by
vote or by the course of its conduct. The President, Vice-President or majority
vote of the Town Council may add or remove items to the agenda during the
meeting. Prior to the meeting, agenda items may be added by the agreement of
President, Vice-President, or two members. Any item not on the agenda or added
properly according to these rules is not eligible for a vote of the Board.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
§ 32.97 PUBLIC INPUT AT PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall hold public hearings as required by law. This
section addresses procedures for public input at both public hearings and
public meetings.
   (B)   Persons with questions or comments may raise them, addressed to the
Town Council, during the public hearing. The citizen's remarks/observations are
to be constructive in nature or to bring attention to specific matters. The
Town Council is not obligated to answer any question raised, but may do so to
make clarifications or otherwise encourage well-informed and orderly
consideration of the matter at hand. Citizens may not use this venue to make a
speech to the public.
   (C)   As a general rule, public comments shall be allotted up to two minutes
per person and citizens may speak up to twice on any motion. These limits are
meant to encourage public participation in local government, but also avoid
endless debate.
   (D)   A speaker may request additional time for good cause shown, and the
Town Council may grant, deny or otherwise address such request. The President
may cut short any presentations that are irrelevant, repetitive, slanderous,
offensive, or that are otherwise not conducive to an orderly proceeding,
provided that the presenter has been admonished at least once.
   (E)   Every person appearing at hearings shall abide by the order and
directives of the President. Discourteous, disorderly, or contemptuous conduct
shall be regarded as a breach of the privileges of the Town Council.
   (F)   Citizen's remarks or observations are limited to remarks/observations
that relate to the scope of authority granted the Town Council under Indiana
Law or that directly relate to the purpose of the public hearing.
   (G)   The board will be able to research and to respond better if complex or
complicated remarks or questions are submitted in advance.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
§ 32.98 ORDER OF BUSINESS AT REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The order of business at all regular meetings of the Town Council
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Roll call.
      (2)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting.
      (3)   Unfinished business.
      (4)   New business.
   (B)   The Council President may alter the order of business as necessary to
conduct an orderly proceeding.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
§ 32.99 PRIOR RULES.
   Any rules which may have been previously passed, setting forth the
procedures and duties of the Town Council, are hereby repealed.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
§ 32.100 CONFLICT WITH STATE LAW.
   In the event that a conflict should arise between these Rules of Procedure
and Indiana Code, Indiana Code shall govern.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
§ 32.101 SUSPENSION OF THE RULES.
   These Rules of Procedure are set forth to assist the Town Council in
conducting its business and to provide reasonable consistency. The Town Council
may deviate at any time from these rules by motion or by conduct. If a member
of the Town Council objects at the time of any deviation, a vote shall be
called to approve or reject such deviation, otherwise the deviation shall be
deemed accepted and any challenge waived. No deviation from these Rules of
Procedure shall give rise to any complaint or any cause of action. (However,
nothing in these rules shall remove or lessen a right or procedure required
under Indiana law.)
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
§ 32.102 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to these Rules of Procedure may be made by the Town Council at
any regular or special meeting upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the
members of the Town Council.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 2-16-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   TRASH AND RECYCLABLES
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Removal from the State Utility Regulatory Commission
Water Utility
   
50.15   Rates and charges established
   
50.16   Rules and regulations generally
   
50.17   Meter deposit
   
50.18   Tapping and capacity charges
   
50.19   Approval of connections
   
50.20   Extensions
   
50.21   Separate user metering
   
50.22   Collection of deferred payment charge
   
50.23   Reconnection charge
   
50.24   Meters
   
50.25   Access to meters and equipment
   
50.26   Maintenance of service
   
50.27   Property owners responsible for bills
   
50.28   Billing
   
50.29   Discontinuance of service
   
50.30   Fire lines and hydrants
   
50.31   Shut-off valve for emergency use required
   
50.32   Flouridation
   
50.33   Water leak adjustment policy
   
50.34   Cross connections prohibited; backflow prevention
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bonds, see
TSO Table VII
   Sewers, see
Ch. 51
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks in town generally, see I.C. 36-9-23
*** GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
§ 50.01 REMOVAL FROM THE STATE UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The municipally owned water utilities of the town shall be hereby removed
from the jurisdiction of the State Utility Regulatory Commission for approval
of rates and charges and of the issuance of stock, bonds, notes or other
evidence of indebtedness.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 7-27-1993)
*** WATER UTILITY ***
§ 50.15 RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   There are hereby established for the use of and the service rendered by the
waterworks system of the town the following rates and charges.
   (A)   Metered rates.
 
Metered rates per month Per Thousand Gallons
   First 2,333 gallon$5.38 $5.54 $5.71
   Next 4,333 gallons$4.23 $4.36 $4.49
   Next 10,000 gallon$3.21 $3.31 $3.41
   Next 16,667 gallon$2.66 $2.74 $2.82
   Next 33,333 gallon$2.16 $2.22 $2.29
 
   (B)   Minimum charges.
Minimum Charges Per Month
Minimum Charges     Per Month
   5/8 inch meter$12.55  $12.93  $13.32
   3/4 inch meter$13.30  $13.70  $14.11
   1 inch meter  $24.85  $25.60  $26.37
   1-1/4 inch met$44.45  $45.78  $47.15
   1-1/2 inch met$71.22  $73.36  $75.56
   2 inch meter  $133.83 $137.84 $141.98
   3 inch meter  $252.80 $260.38 $268.19
   4 inch meter  $469.44 $483.52 $498.03
   6 inch meter  $794.42 $818.25 $842.80
 
   (C)   Fire protection.
 
Public Fire Protection
   Fire hydrant fee per month     $2
Private Fire Protection
   Per hydrant per annum          $225
   6 inch sprinkler charge per ann$300
   8 inch sprinkler charge per ann$500
 
   (D)   Service outside corporate limits. Water customers located outside the
town shall pay 25% more than the rates in the above schedule.
   (E)   Tank sales.
 
0—500 gallons                      $2
Over 500 gallons (per 1,000 gallons) $4
 
   (F)   Temporary users. Water furnished to temporary users such as
contractors, circuses and the like shall be charged on the basis of the metered
gallon rates and charged an appropriate deposit hereinbefore set forth as
estimated and established by the Superintendent of the Water Utility.
   (G)   Returned check fee. A fee of $25 shall be assessed for each check
returned by the bank for non-sufficient funds. This is to be paid in full in
addition to any outstanding charges due, prior to acceptance of any payment or
reinstatement of services.
   (H)   Service charge. A service charge of $50 shall be charged for any non-
emergency service calls made after normal waterworks working hours.
(1980 Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 2-1976, passed - -; Ord. 2-1979, passed - -; Ord. 3-
2001, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 3-2007, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 3-2011, passed - -
2011; Ord. 3-2015, passed 4-28-2015; Ord. 2021-1, passed 2-9-2021; Ord. 2022-
17, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 50.16 RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   The following rules and regulations governing the operation of the municipal
water utility are hereby adopted as follows.
(1980 Code, § 14-2)
§ 50.17 METER DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each consumer of the Water Utility and the Sewage Works, before being
connected to the system, shall be required to make a deposit with the town in
the sum of $200. Said deposit shall be returned to the customer after one year
of satisfactory payment of charges, or when the customer has terminated
service, provided all charges due and owing from the customer are paid.
   (B)   Otherwise, the deposit shall be used to offset any charge due and
owing by the customer.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 5-2008, passed 1-13-2009; Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-1-
2022)
§ 50.18 TAPPING AND CAPACITY CHARGES.
   (A)   Each user of the Water Utility, upon being connected to the system,
shall pay a connection or tapping charge for such connection, which charge
shall be made directly to the user according to the following schedule, which
may be amended by the Town Council from time to time.
 
Meter Size   Inside Town Limits Outside Town Limits Other Fees
3/4 - 1 inch $1,000             $1,250              Plus material and
                                                    installation costs
2 inch       $1,400             $1,500              Plus material and
                                                    installation costs
4 inch       $1,500             $1,750              Plus material and
                                                    installation costs
6 inch       $1,600             $2,000              Plus material and
                                                    installation costs
8 inch       $2,000             $2,250              Plus material and
                                                    installation costs
 
   (B)   Each user of the Water Utility, upon being connected to the system,
shall pay a capacity charge for such connection, which charge shall be made
directly to the user in the amount of $1,070, which said amount may be amended
by the Town Council from time to time. Upon request of the property owner
subject to the capacity charge outlined herein, the capacity charge may be paid
off over a period of 60 months in equal payments with no interest.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 2022-26, passed 2-21-
2023; Ord. 2024-19, passed 2-3-2025)
§ 50.19 APPROVAL OF CONNECTIONS.
   The Utility Department Head shall approve all connections and taps before
any construction begins. In addition, consumer shall be charged a $25
inspection fee.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 2022-26, passed 2-21-
2023)
§ 50.20 EXTENSIONS.
   Extensions of all distribution or transmission lines shall be made in
accordance with the Rules and Standards of Service for Water Utilities of
Indiana, as now in effect or as hereinafter amended.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 50.21 SEPARATE USER METERING.
   Each user shall be separately metered, whether such user shall be located
within one structure or a number of structures, and even though located on
multiple lots or within the boundaries of a single lot; except that, any
customer now receiving water for or on behalf of more than one user through a
single meter shall, at his or her option, continue on a single meter until
ownership changes or additional users are added. All changes and additions are
to be approved by the Water Superintendent prior to construction. For purposes
of this section, a USER shall mean any single commercial establishment or any
single residence family.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 50.22 COLLECTION OF DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGE.
   All bids for water service not paid within 15 days from the due date
thereof, as stated in such bills, shall be subject to a collection of deferred
payment charge of 10% on the first $3 and 3% on amounts in excess of $3.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 50.23 RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   Each user shall be charged $25 for the reconnection of service because of
non-payment. This cost is based on, but not limited to, the approximate cost of
labor and transportation incurred to accomplish reconnection. Whenever the
Water Utility has turned off the water service, the customer shall not turn it
on, nor cause it to be turned on without permission of the Water Superintendent
or his or her representative.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 METERS.
   The Water Utility will specify and furnish all meters, except by agreement
with the Water Superintendent. Any damage caused by the customer or owner, or
by others with their consent, because of illegal access, tampering or any other
actions causing damage to the meter or setting, whether intentional or not, the
cost of repairs will be charged to the customer and/or owner. Non-payment of
these charges shall be reason for discontinuance of service until such fees are
paid.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2007, passed 8-28-2007)
§ 50.25 ACCESS TO METERS AND EQUIPMENT.
   The Water Utility shall have access, at all reasonable hours, to replace,
inspect or otherwise maintain all meters, valves, hydrants and other equipment
associated with water service. It is also forbidden for the users to cover up
or in any way obstruct the free access to any water meter, hydrant, valve or
other equipment required for town water service. In case of a violation of this
provision, and failure on the part of the owner of the premises to remove such
obstruction upon notice from the Water Utility, the water service shall be
discontinued.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 50.26 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE.
   The Water Utility assumes responsibility for maintaining that part of the
service that connects, and includes, the corporation stop, service line up to
and including the meter setting, meter, pit and lid, including any meters
located on the premises. The remainder of the service from the meter, or curb
stops, to the user’s plumbing is to be maintained and kept in repair by the
customer. Any changes in location of the meter setting or curb box shall be at
the customer’s expense.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 50.27 PROPERTY OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BILLS.
   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying the
properties served by the Water Utility, unless otherwise requested in writing
by the owner, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the
liability in the event payment is not made as herein required.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 50.28 BILLING.
   (A)   Bills for water service furnished through meters shall be rendered
monthly. A MONTH shall not mean a calendar month, but shall mean the period
between any two attempted consecutive readings of the meter by the Utility, and
shall be as nearly 30 days as practicable.
   (B)   The Water Utility will make an effort to read meters once a month and
such readings shall be prima facie evidence of the amount of water used. If the
Utility is unable to gain access to a customer’s property from obstructions,
inclement weather or other difficulties, the Utility shall estimate consumption
for the period. Bills so made shall be labeled “estimated” and the difference,
if any, shall be adjusted with the next regular reading. If the meter fails to
register, in whole or part, the customer shall pay at the average rate as shown
by the three previous readings.
   (C)   The Water Utility will undertake to deliver bills and notices by
depositing it in the Post Office only as a matter of convenience to the owner
or consumer; failure to receive bills shall not relieve any person from his or
her obligation in the payment of such bills.
   (D)   There shall be no abatement in charges by reason of non-use of service
by customer unless the Utility has been ordered to discontinue service.
   (E)   An adjustment to the sewage charges, or “sprinkling rate”, will be
made during the months of July, August and September for residential customers.
Sewage charges will be based on water usage during January, February and March.
Any other adjustments to sewage charges due to outside leaks, filling swimming
pools, construction use, commercial/industrial use and the like must be
approved by the Water Utility Superintendent.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 50.29 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   A customer’s water service may be discontinued by the Water Utility at the
tap or curb for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   For any use of water not covered by contract;
   (B)   For any tampering or knowingly permitting any tampering with any
service pipe, curb stop, meter, meter seal, fire hydrant or sprinkler system;
   (C)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill.
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment.
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (4)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (5)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $25.
   (D)   For failures to provide free and non-hazardous access to the meter so
that representative of Utility may take meter readings, make necessary
inspections, maintain, replace or remove meter;
   (E)   For unapproved cross-connections with any other source of water
supply;
   (F)   For permitting any condition to exist about the premises, which might,
in the opinion of the Water Utility, cause pollution of the public water
supply;
   (G)   For wastage of un-metered water; and/or
   (H)   For violation of any of these rules or regulations or any amendments
thereof.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 50.30 FIRE LINES AND HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All pipes or hydrants placed in or about buildings for fire protection
shall be used exclusively for fire purposes.
   (B)   No person, not an authorized employee of the Water Utility, Fire
Department or Street Department, shall open, operate or remove the nozzle cap
from any public or private fire hydrant to which either is supplied by the
Utility. Temporary connections to fire hydrants for industrial or other
purposes shall be permitted only when authorized by the Water Superintendent or
his or her representative.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31 SHUT-OFF VALVE FOR EMERGENCY USE REQUIRED.
   The owner of every building where the Water Utility provides water service
shall provide a good shut-off valve located in a convenient location just
inside the basement or crawl space so that the occupants in case of emergency
may shut off the water.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 50.32 FLUORIDATION.
   The Town Council is authorized to provide the means for and to proceed with
the addition of sufficient quantities of a fluoride compound to the public
water supply of the town Water Utility to bring the total amount of fluoride
ions present in the furnished water to the optimum concentration recommended by
the State Board of Health. The Water Utility shall keep an accurate record of
the amount of fluoride-bearing chemical applied and the quantity of water
treated, and shall conduct such analytical tests to be made for fluoride in the
treated water as shall be directed by the State Board of Health.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 50.33 WATER LEAK ADJUSTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Eligibility. For the customers to be eligible for a leak adjustment
the following factors must be met:
      (1)   A customer's leak is determined as a loss of water that exceeds
100% of the customer's average water usage for the proceeding six months;
      (2)   That the customer upon discovering the leak or becoming aware of
the leak notified the water utility within seven business days and immediately
had the leak repaired;
      (3)   That the leak occurred between the water meter or the curb stop and
point of entry into the building or dwelling; and
      (4)   That the customer has not had a previous water leak adjustment
during the current calendar year.
   (B)   Ineligibility. For the customers to be ineligible for a leak
adjustment the following factors must be met:
      (1)   Leaks not meeting the above requirements or unexplained leaks/
usage;
      (2)   Leaks due to failure of internal plumbing, including but not
limited to leaking faucets, leaking toilets, leaking appliances, and the like;
      (3)   Homes that utilize irrigation systems shall not be eligible for
leak adjustments, unless it can be established that the leak did not occur on/
in the irrigation system; and
      (4)   If at any time the town notifies the owner/account holder of a
possible leak, or if the owner/account holder knows of a leak, and the owner/
account holder fails to act within seven days, the town may determine the leak
adjustment is ineligible.
   (C)   Responsibility of the consumer.
      (1)   The consumer is responsible for contacting Brookville Water Works
regarding the leak and shall provide necessary documentation of leak repairs
from a qualified contractor.
      (2)   The consumer is responsible for contacting Brookville Water Works
to request the proposed adjustment and certify via an affidavit that there was
a valid leak.
      (3)   Leak adjustment requests must be made in writing within 30 days
after the consumer receives his/her monthly bill.
      (4)   No adjustments will be automatically applied.
   (D)   Procedure to request a leak adjustment.
      (1)   Upon being presented with the leak affidavit, the Clerk-Treasurer
or Town Administrator will determine the validity of the leak adjustment
request.
      (2)   If the Town Administrator or Water Superintendent refuses the
adjustment and the consumer is not satisfied, then he/she may request that the
matter be taken before the Town Council. The Council will conduct a hearing at
a regularly scheduled Council meeting and shall in its discretion make a final
determination.
   (E)   Calculation of leak adjustment.
      (1)   The consumer shall be charged the prevailing rate for the six month
average usage;
      (2)   The sales tax will be adjusted to the applicable amount based on
the adjusted water bill;
      (3)   The sewer bill will be adjusted based on the gallons used for six
month average usage;
      (4)   If the consumer requesting the leak adjustment does not have six
months of water history, the adjustment will be calculated based upon the
readings from the previous water account.
   (F)   Upon receiving an adjustment, the customer shall pay the bill within
the regular billing cycle. If the customer fails to make payment it is
considered delinquent and will be handled in the same manner as the regular
monthly billing delinquencies.
   (G)   (1)   If the leak adjustment is denied by the utility or by Town
Council, the consumer must pay the unadjusted bill within the regular billing
cycle.
      (2)   Penalties incurred as a result of delinquent payment will not be
adjusted and/or removed from the bill per the Indiana State Board of Accounts,
unless approved by Town Council
(Ord. 2020-14, passed 10-13-2020)
§ 50.34 CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED; BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   (A)   A CROSS CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between two systems.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No
cross connection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of said town, unless
such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of connection
and use of such supply shall have been approved by the Water/Wastewater
Utilities and by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management in
accordance with 327 IAC 8-10.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Water/Wastewater Utilities to cause
inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water system
where cross connections with the public water system is deemed possible. The
frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential health hazards
involved shall be established by the Water/Wastewater Utilities.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the Water/
Wastewater Utilities shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable
time to examine the property served by a connection to the public water system
of the town for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant
of any property so served shall furnish to the representative of the Water/
Wastewater Utilities any pertinent information regarding the piping system or
systems on such property. The refusal of access or refusal of requested
pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross
connections on the property.
   (E)   The Water/Wastewater Utilities are hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this section. Violations of this section are also subject to
the penalties outlined in §
50.99 of this chapter.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the Water/Wastewater Utilities that a cross
connection or an emergency endangers public health, safety, and/or welfare and
requires immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with
the Clerk-Treasure of the town and delivered to the owner, lessee, or occupant
at the property/premises, service may be immediately discontinued. The owner,
lessee, or occupant shall have an opportunity for a hearing before the Town
Council by providing a written request for said hearing to the Clerk-Treasurer
within ten days of the discontinuation of service. The hearing will take place
at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Town Council after written
notice has been given to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (G)   All owners, lessees, or occupants of properties served by the town's
public water system that use toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
owners, lessees, or occupants of properties served by the town's public water
system shall install and maintain a reduce pressure principal backflow
preventer in the main water line serving each structure on the property/
premises. The backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible
location that is not subject to flooding or freezing. The reduced pressure
principle backflow preventers shall not be installed below ground level.
   (H)   This section does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, the IDEM
Rule 327 IAC 8- 10, or any other chapter and/or section of this code, but is
supplementary to them.
   (I)   A backflow prevention device shall be required at all customer
facilities outlined in 327 IAC 8-10-4(c), as the same may be amended from time
to time, unless an exemption has been issued for the customer facility pursuant
to 327 IAC 8-10-4(e).
   (J)   If, in the judgment of the town's Utilities Superintendent, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water system, the Utilities Superintendent will give notice to the owner,
lessee, or occupant of the property utilizing the public water system to
install an approved backflow prevention device immediately. The owner, lessee,
or occupant shall, at their own expense, install such an approved backflow
prevention device at a location and in a manner approved by the Utilities
Superintendent and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved
devices as required by the Utilities Superintendent and in accordance with IDEM
Rule 327 IAC 8-10.
(Ord. 2025-14, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   For violations of §
50.23 of this chapter, a penalty of $25 for first violation, $50 for second
violation and no reinstatement of service for third violation will be imposed
on violators.
(1980 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 3-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Provisions in accordance with permit and directives of Environmental
Protection Agency
   
51.002   Town to make and enforce regulations regarding all aspects of sewage
works
   
51.003   Definitions
   
51.004   Connection with public sanitary sewer systems required
   
51.005   Private sewage disposal systems
   
51.006   Industrial users and the like to submit quarterly reports; town
authorized to verify such reports; potential industrial users to submit
prospective report
   
51.007   Town to maintain records; inspection by Environmental Protection
Agency; annual report to such agency
   
51.008   Classification of users
Building Sewers
   
51.020   Permit required; fees
   
51.021   Costs to be borne by owner; town to be indemnified from resulting loss
or damage
   
51.022   To be separate and independent; exception
   
51.023   New buildings with old sewers must comply
   
51.024   Specifications
   
51.025   Connection with public sewer
   
51.026   Excavations to be guarded; public property to be restored
Discharges; Treatment
   
51.040   Certain enumerated types of water not to be discharged to sanitary
sewers; proper discharge of such water
   
51.041   Certain enumerated water and wastes not to be discharged to any public
sewer
   
51.042   Certain enumerated waters and wastes to be approved by Superintendent
prior to admission into sanitary sewers
   
51.043   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when necessary; specifications;
maintenance by owner
   
51.044   Preliminary treatment facilities and manholes to be maintained by
owner
   
51.045   Special agreements
   
51.046   Town to have the right to reject or restrict wastes
Use of Sewers
   
51.060   Combined sewers prohibited
   
51.061   Breaking, damaging and the like any part of sewage works prohibited
   
51.062   Superintendent, Inspector and the like permitted to inspect properties
Rates and Charges
   
51.075   Sewage works rates and charges
   
51.076   Manner and preparation of billing; examination of records by property
owners
   
51.077   Effective date; automatic extension
Industrial Cost Recovery
   
51.090   Factors for consideration
   
51.091   Amounts to be recovered from each industrial class user
   
51.092   Use of amounts recovered
   
51.093   New industrial class users to be subject to provisions of subchapter;
Environmental Protection Agency to be notified
   
51.094   Town to maintain accurate records; inspection by Environmental
Protection Agency authorized
Pretreatment Regulations
Division 1. General Provisions
   
51.110   Purpose and policy
   
51.111   Administration
   
51.112   Abbreviations
   
51.113   Definitions
   
51.114   Confidential information
   
51.115   Publication of users of significant noncompliance
Division 2. General Rules and Regulations
   
51.125   General requirements
   
51.126   Prohibited discharge standards
   
51.127   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.128   State pretreatment standards
   
51.129   Local limits
   
51.130   Town’s right of revision
   
51.131   Dilution
Division 3. Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
51.145   Pretreatment facilities
   
51.146   Additional pretreatment measures
   
51.147   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
51.148   Tenant responsibility
   
51.149   Hauled wastewater
Division 4. Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
   
51.165   Wastewater analysis
   
51.166   Wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
51.167   Wastewater discharge permitting: existing connections
   
51.168   Wastewater discharge permitting: new connections
   
51.169   Wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
51.170   Application signatories and certification
   
51.171   Wastewater discharge permit decisions
Division 5. Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
   
51.185   Wastewater discharge permit duration
   
51.186   Wastewater discharge permit contents
   
51.187   Wastewater discharge permit appeals
   
51.188   Wastewater discharge permit modification
   
51.189   Wastewater discharge permit transfer
   
51.190   Wastewater discharge permit revocation
   
51.191   Wastewater discharge permit reissuance
   
51.192   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Division 6. Reporting Requirements
   
51.205   Baseline monitoring reports
   
51.206   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
51.207   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
51.208   Periodic compliance reports
   
51.209   Reports of changed conditions
   
51.210   Reports of potential problems
   
51.211   Reports from unpermitted users
   
51.212   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
51.213   Discharge of hazardous waste
   
51.214   Analytic requirements
   
51.215   Sample collection
   
51.216   Timing
   
51.217   Record keeping
Division 7. Compliance Assurance and Monitoring
   
51.230   Right of entry: inspection and sampling
   
51.231   Search warrants
Division 8. Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
51.245   Enforcement remedies
   
51.246   Notification of violation
   
51.247   Consent orders
   
51.248   Show cause hearing
   
51.249   Compliance schedule
   
51.250   Cease and desist orders
   
51.251   Administrative fines
   
51.252   Emergency suspensions
   
51.253   Termination of discharge
Division 9. Supplemental Enforcement Action
   
51.265   Public nuisances
   
51.266   Performance bonds
   
51.267   Liability insurance
   
51.268   Water supply severance
Division 10. Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
51.280   Upset
   
51.281   Prohibited discharge standards
   
51.282   Bypass
Division 11. Pretreatment Program Implementation
   
51.295   Pretreatment charges and fees
   
51.296   Industrial user inventory   
   
51.297   Compliance monitoring procedures
   
51.298   Data screening
   
51.299   Identification of violations
   
51.300   Tracking system
   
51.301   Scheduling industrial inspections
Division 12. Enforcement Response Procedures
   
51.315   Enforcement response procedures defined
   
51.316   Enforcement authority
   
51.317   Judgment criteria
   
51.318   Types of enforcement response
   
51.319   Significant noncompliance
   
51.320   Time frames for responses
   
51.321   Sampling, monitoring and reporting by user
   
51.322   Compliance schedule; construction phases of planning
   
51.323   Discharge limitations
   
51.324   Noncompliance detected through sampling or field investigations
Division 13. Fees
   
51.335   Fees for pretreatment industrial monitoring
   
51.336   Surcharges on strong wastes
   
51.337   Review of rates
 
   
51.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bonds, see
TSO Table VII
   Water, see
Ch. 50
Statutory reference:
   Power of town to collect, process and dispose of domestic or sanitary
sewage, see I.C. 36-9-23-2
   Sewers and drains in towns, see I.C. 36-9-23-0.1 et seq.
*** GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
§ 51.001 PROVISIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH PERMIT AND DIRECTIVES OF ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY.
   The provisions contained in this chapter are set forth in accordance with
the conditions relative to the permit granted by and directives of the
Environmental Protection Agency.
(1980 Code, § 14-3) (Ord. 1-1977, passed - -)
§ 51.002 TOWN TO MAKE AND ENFORCE REGULATIONS REGARDING ALL ASPECTS OF SEWAGE
WORKS.
   The town shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be deemed
necessary for the safe, economic and efficient management of its sewage works,
including the sewer system and the treatment plant, for the construction and
use of house sewers and connections to the sewer system and for the regulation,
collection, rebating and refunding of rates and charges.
(1980 Code, § 14-4) (Ord. 3-1977, passed - -)
§ 51.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUAL FLOW. The total amount of waste treated by the treatment plant during
the preceding year.
   ANNUAL REVENUES REQUIRED. The total amount of revenues necessary to operate
the sewage works in an efficient and economical manner and meet all known or
anticipated expenditures, including, but not limited to, operation and
maintenance expenses, debt service, replacement and depreciation.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure for
five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l). The BOD
measurement may be specified as CBOD or TBOD. The laboratory determinations
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the latest edition of
40 C.F.R. § 136.3.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building drainage system
which receives the discharge from waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
wall of the building and conveys it to a point approximately five feet outside
the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING SEWER. A building drain which conveys sanitary or industrial sewage
only.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer pipe intended to receive sanitary, commercial and
industrial wastewaters as well as storm water from storm events.
   DEBT SERVICE. The average annual principal and interest payments on all
revenue bonds or other long-term debt.
   FLOW. The quantity of liquid waste emanating from a user of the sewage
works.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any non-government user of the sewage works identified in the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B - Mining;
         (c)   Division D - Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e)   Division I - Services.
      (2)   As stated herein, a user in the divisions listed may be excluded if
it is determined that such user will introduce primarily normal domestic
sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow or escaping from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business process or from the development, recovery or processing
of any natural resources carried on by any person, exclusive of sanitary
sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person duly authorized by the town, through its Town Council,
to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their connection
to the public sewer system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NON-INDUSTRIAL USER CLASS. The type of user who produces normal domestic
wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   Wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
 
Ammonia-N   Not more than 20 mg/l
CBOD        Not more than 200 mg/l
COD         Not more than 500 mg/l
Phosphorous Not more than 5 mg/l
TSS         Not more than 225 mg/l
 
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences are distinct from industrial process.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES. All ordinary and necessary expenses
incurred in the normal operation of the sewage works, including, but not
limited to, salaries and wages, electrical power, chemicals, supplies, minor
repairs, insurance and taxes.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ion expressed in standard units.
   PROPERTY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and which is controlled by public authority.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).
      (1)   A treatment works, as defined by § 212 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C.
§ 1291 which is owned by the town.
      (2)   This definition includes any devices or systems used in the
collection, pumping, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or
industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey
wastewater to a treatment plant.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works, to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Normal domestic sewage.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer or system of pipes for conveying sanitary,
commercial and industrial wastewaters and into which storm water and/or water
from storm events are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE LIFE.
      (1)   The estimated useful life of the sewage works.
      (2)   For purposes of determining depreciation, the town adopts the
following SERVICE LIVES for components of its sewage works:
 
Auxiliary equipment (includes instruments and control facilities,
sewage pumps and electric motors, mechanical equipment such as         15 years
compressors, aeration systems, centrifuges, chlorinators and
electrical generating facilities on regular services)
Process equipment (includes major process equipment such as clarifier
mechanism and vacuum filters, steel process tankage and chemical       30 years
storage facilities and electrical and electrical generating facilities
on standby service only)
Structures (includes buildings, sewers and lift stations)              50 years
 
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments
singular or in any combination, together with such ground, surface and storm
water as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids. (See also I.C. 36-9-1-8.)
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit or system of pipes and conduits for carrying sewage
or other waste liquids.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer or system of pipes for conveying surface
water or ground water from any source and into which sanitary and/or industrial
wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SURCHARGE. The additional charge applied to industrial users or other users
whose waste contains BOD or suspended solids in excess of allowable limits.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS).
      (1)   The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is
suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid, and which is removable by
laboratory filtering usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
      (2)   The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in the latest edition of 40 C.F.R. § 136.3.
   USER CHARGE. The charge applied uniformly to all users of the sewage works,
to cover operation, maintenance expensed and depreciation, based on the
quantity of sewage produced as measured by the water meter.
   WASTEWATER AND/OR UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT. The Wastewater Superintendent
designated by the Town Council to supervise the operation of the POTW, and who
is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or a duly
authorized representative.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1980 Code, § 14-5) (Ord. 1-1977, passed - -1977; Ord. 2-1977, passed - -1977;
Ord. 3-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 51.004 CONNECTION WITH PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, permit to be
deposited or discharged to any natural outlet within the town or any area under
the jurisdiction of the town any sanitary, commercial, industrial or polluted
wastewater, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any normal domestic
sewage, industrial waste or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Except as herein provided, no person shall construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other wastewater treatment
facility intended or used for the treatment and/or disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all house, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated in the town and
abutting on any street, alley, right-of-way or easement in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the town, are hereby required at their own expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein and to connect such facilities and industrial waste outlets
directly with the public sewer in accordance with this chapter within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so; provided that, such public sewer is
within 300 feet of the property line.
(1980 Code, § 14-6) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.004 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with all recommendations of the State Board of
Health.
   (B)   When a public sanitary sewer becomes available to a property served by
a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
51.004 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (D)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the local Health
Officer.
(1980 Code, § 14-7) (Ord. 1-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 INDUSTRIAL USERS AND THE LIKE TO SUBMIT QUARTERLY REPORTS; TOWN
AUTHORIZED TO VERIFY SUCH REPORTS; POTENTIAL INDUSTRIAL USERS TO SUBMIT
PROSPECTIVE REPORT.
   (A)   Every industrial user or user whose discharge is of a strength in
excess of normal domestic sewage shall submit to the town periodic reports
containing characteristics of his, her or their waste discharge. Unless the
town requires more frequent reports, the user shall submit within 30 days after
the close of a quarter, the report for the calendar quarter. The town shall
specify the form and content of the report to each user.
   (B)   For purposes of verifying reports submitted by industrial or high
strength users, the town may collect and analyze samples of water at any time
and as frequently as deemed necessary.
   (C)   In the case of a potential industrial user applying for connection to
the town’s sewage works, the town shall require a report from such potential
user which shall set forth the anticipated BOD, suspended solids and flow of
the user’s waste.
(1980 Code, § 14-31) (Ord. 3-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 51.007 TOWN TO MAINTAIN RECORDS; INSPECTION BY ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY; ANNUAL REPORT TO SUCH AGENCY.
   (A)   The town shall keep proper books and records relative to the revenues
and expenses of the sewage works and shall maintain in its files all reports
relative to strength and character of usage. All such records shall be made
available for inspection by representatives of the Environmental Protection
Agency at all reasonable times.
   (B)   The town shall report annually to the Environmental Protection Agency
such information as requested by the agency in the form the agency shall
prescribe.
(1980 Code, § 14-32) (Ord. 3-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 51.008 CLASSIFICATION OF USERS.
   (A)   At the time of the adoption of this chapter, the town has classified
users into residential, commercial, industrial and institutional categories.
   (B)   Definitions of users in each classification shall be as follows.
      COMMERCIAL. A business establishment where the purchase or sale of goods
or the rendering of a service is conducted.
      INDUSTRIAL. A manufacturing facility engaged in a for-profit activity and
discharging industrial wastes into the sewage system of the town.
      INSTITUTIONAL. An agency of federal, state and local government, schools,
churches and any other qualified governmental or non-profit body.
      RESIDENTIAL. A domicile of one or more persons where no business of any
kind is conducted.
(1980 Code, § 14-33) (Ord. 3-1977, passed - -1977)
*** BUILDING SEWERS ***
§ 51.020 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   No person shall construct, repair, modify or alter a sewer lateral,
public sewer, manhole or other sewer system appurtenance without first
obtaining permission from the Superintendent.
   (B)   For building sewer permits, residential or commercial service, the
owner or agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the town.
The permit applications shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the inspector. Each
user of the Sewer Utility upon being connected to the system shall pay a
connection or tap charge for such connection, which charge shall be made
directly to the user according to the following schedule:
 
Inside Town Limits Outside Town Limits Other Fees
$1,000             $1,100              Plus material and installation costs
 
   (C)   The Utility Department head shall approve all connections and taps
before any construction begins. In addition, consumer shall be charged a $25
inspection fee.
(1980 Code, § 14-8) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 2022-27, passed 1-19-
2023) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 COSTS TO BE BORNE BY OWNER; TOWN TO BE INDEMNIFIED FROM RESULTING LOSS
OR DAMAGE.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person installing
the building sewer for such owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such installation.
(1980 Code, § 14-9) (Ord. 1-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 51.022 TO BE SEPARATE AND INDEPENDENT; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent sanitary sewer lateral shall be provided for each
and every building, except present sewer structures in use; and, except that,
where one building stands at the rear of another on the same lot and no
sanitary sewer can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard or driveway, the sewer lateral from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole sewer lateral considered as one
sewer lateral for the single property.
(1980 Code, § 14-10)
§ 51.023 NEW BUILDINGS WITH OLD SEWERS MUST COMPLY.
   Old building sanitary sewer laterals may be used in connection with new
buildings only when they are found, on examination and testing by the
Superintendent, to meet all requirements of new sanitary sewer laterals.
(1980 Code, § 14-11)
§ 51.024 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be scheduled 40, five feet out of buildings
with clean-out installed, and remaining line to be SDR 35 PVC. Joints shall be
glued and waterproof.
   (B)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches. The slope of such four-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth inch
per foot.
   (C)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an accepted means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (D)   In all building in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. No
water-operated sewage ejector shall be used.
   (E)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the inspector. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications;
except that, no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the inspector or his or her representative.
(1980 Code, § 14-12) (Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 51.025 CONNECTION WITH PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   The following shall be required:
      (1)   Be of a six-inch or larger size, for gravity laterals;
      (2)   Be fitted into an approved “tee” or “Y” fitting into sewer mains of
12-inch or smaller in size;
      (3)   On 12-inch or larger sewers, all saddle connections shall be of an
approved type with a positive seal on the connection to the lateral; and
      (4)   All connections to the public sewer shall be made gas-tight and
water-tight.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any new construction to have a delay
inflow or a flow equalization structure that discharges into a combined sewer
system in the town.
(1980 Code, § 14-13)
§ 51.026 EXCAVATIONS TO BE GUARDED; PUBLIC PROPERTY TO BE RESTORED.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(1980 Code, § 14-14) (Ord. 1-1977, passed - -1977)
*** DISCHARGES; TREATMENT ***
§ 51.040 CERTAIN ENUMERATED TYPES OF WATER NOT TO BE DISCHARGED TO SANITARY
SEWERS: PROPER DISCHARGE OF SUCH WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, parking lot runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters into any
sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent.
(1980 Code, § 14-15) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.041 CERTAIN ENUMERATED WATER AND WASTES NOT TO BE DISCHARGED TO ANY PUBLIC
SEWER.
   (A)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW the
following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 25 parts per
million, by weight of soluble oils;
      (2)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flash point of
less than 140 degrees F (60 degrees C) using the test methods specified in 40
CFR 260.21;
      (3)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 10.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than 3/4 inch in dimension;
      (5)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (6)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 140 degrees F, or
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104 degrees F (40 degrees C);
      (7)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (8)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (9)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except:
         (a)   With the permission of the POTW; and
         (b)   When introduced to the POTW at a discharge point designated by
the POTW.
      (10)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (11)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit;
      (12)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
run-off, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the Town Council;
      (14)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (15)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the Town
Council in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (16)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail its NPDES toxicity test;
      (17)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (18)   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, or more than
10% or any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit of the meter;
      (19)   Materials, including but not limited to sand, gravel, trash and
construction debris, causing, alone or in conjunction with other materials
normally in the sewer system, an obstruction to the flow in the sewer line or
system or injury to the sewer system or cause a nuisance or prevention of
effective maintenance or operation of the sewer; or
      (20)   Fats, oils, or grease of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l.
   (B)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the POTW.
(1980 Code, § 14-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.042 CERTAIN ENUMERATED WATERS AND WASTES TO BE APPROVED BY SUPERINTENDENT
PRIOR TO ADMISSION INTO SANITARY SEWERS.
   Industrial users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply
with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out herein within
the time limitations specified by EPA, the state or the Town Council, whichever
is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided,
operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans describing such
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the town for review,
and shall be reviewed and approved by the town before such facilities are
constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the town under the provisions of
this chapter.
(1980 Code, § 14-18)
§ 51.043 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN NECESSARY; SPECIFICATIONS;
MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of wastewater
containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that, such
interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interceptor units
shall be of type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be so
located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors
shall be installed, inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at his, her or their expense.
(1980 Code, § 14-19)
§ 51.044 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES AND MANHOLES TO BE MAINTAINED BY
OWNER.
   (A)   When required and deemed necessary by the Superintendent, the owner or
any property serviced by the town’s sewer shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be easily accessible and safely
located, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times. The sample manhole shall be inspected and approved by the
Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   The sample manhole shall be water-tight, sealed at all joints,
seams, risers and at the frame. The sample manhole shall be a minimum of four
feet inside diameter and five feet in height. There shall be only one pipe
through the bottom with the top one-half cut out. Minimum pipe diameter through
the manhole shall be six inches.
      (2)   The floor of the manhole must drain down into the pipe as it passed
through the manhole.
(1980 Code, § 14-20)
§ 51.045 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   No statement contained in the foregoing sections shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern.
   (B)   The charges contained in any special agreement, however, shall not be
less than those set out in those sections of this chapter establishing rates
and charges for normal usage.
(1980 Code, § 14-22) (Ord. 1-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 51.046 TOWN TO HAVE THE RIGHT TO REJECT OR RESTRICT WASTES.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to reject any and all wastes from a user
if the acceptance of such wastes is deemed harmful to the operation of the
sewage treatment plant.
   (B)   Regardless of the strength of the wastes involved, the town shall have
the right to reject any prospective user if the sewage works or any of its
individual components such as sanitary sewers, force mains, lift stations and
treatment plant do not have sufficient capacity to accept and treat the waste
from the prospective user.
   (C)   (1)   In the event of a breakdown in the sewage treatment plant, the
town shall have the right to restrict the flow of waste from large users or
users sending industrial wastes for treatment.
      (2)   It shall be within the discretion of the Superintendent to
determine the users subject to such restrictions.
(1980 Code, § 14-23) (Ord. 1-1977, passed - -1977)
*** USE OF SEWERS ***
§ 51.060 COMBINED SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   No combined sewers shall be constructed by the town as a part of its sewage
works, nor shall the town accept from any subdivider, contractor or developer
any combined sewers as an addition to its sewage works.
(1980 Code, § 14-24) (Ord. 1-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 51.061 BREAKING, DAMAGING AND THE LIKE ANY PART OF SEWAGE WORKS PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be held liable for any damages caused any part of the sewage
works.
(1980 Code, § 14-25) (Ord. 1-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 SUPERINTENDENT, INSPECTOR AND THE LIKE PERMITTED TO INSPECT
PROPERTIES.
   The Superintendent, inspector and other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
upon all properties at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance with the
foregoing provisions of this chapter.
(1980 Code, § 14-26) (Ord. 1-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
51.999
*** RATES AND CHARGES ***
§ 51.075 SEWAGE WORKS RATES AND CHARGES.
   For the use of and the services rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owner of each and every lot, parcel of real
estate, building, or wholesale user that is connected to the town's sanitary
sewage system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water
or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage
system of the town, which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter
provided and shall be in an amount determinable as follows:
   (A)   Metered users. Except as provided in division (B) below, the rates and
charges for the sewage works shall be based on the following schedule with all
flows being measured consistent with the user’s water meter there in use. The
rate shall be calculated by computing the flow charge, in the event the flow
charge is less than the minimum charge set forth below, the customer shall pay
the minimum charge:
 
Minimum charge:     $20.62           $21.24           $21.88
Flow charge:        $10.31 per 1,000 $10.62 per 1,000 $10.94 per 1,000
first 2,000 gallons gallons          gallons          gallons
Flow charge:        $4.93 per 1,000  $5.08 per 1,000  $5.23 per 1,000 gallons
over 2,000 gallons  gallons          gallons
 
   (B)   Wholesale contract user. The Lake Regional Conservancy District
("District") shall be billed according to the rates and charges set forth in
the Wastewater Treatment Agreement entered into between the Lake Regional Waste
District and the town, dated July 13, 1982 as may be amended from time to time,
including, but not limited to, the April 2, 2008 amendment. Nothing in this
division shall prevent the District and the town from further amending the July
13, 1982 agreement including the rate schedule set forth therein.
   (C)   Town rate. For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be
subject to the same rates and charges as set forth §
51.075(A) as set forth above.
   (D)   Out of corporate limits rate. Customers located outside the town shall
pay 25% more than the rates in the above schedule.
   (E)   Additional strength charges. In addition, for certain waste, the user
shall be charged an additional excess strength surcharge pursuant to the
following schedule:
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.34 per pound, or fraction thereof, of suspended solids
in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid. The excess pounds of suspended
solids will be computed by first multiplying the customer's billing sewage
volume measured in units of 1,000 gallons by the factor 0.00834 and then
multiplying this product by the loading of suspended solids in excess of 250
milligrams per liter.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.34 cents per pound, or fraction thereof, of BOD in excess of 250
milligrams per liter of fluid. The excess pounds of BOD will be computed by
first multiplying the customer's billing sewage volume measured in units of
1,000 gallons by the factor 0.00834 and then multiplying this product by the
loading of BOD in excess of 250 milligrams per liter.
   (F)   No discharge of pumped waste. Waste pumped from septic tanks, lift
stations, campers and the like, either by the owner or commercial hauler, is
prohibited from being dumped into any outlet connected to the town's collection
system. This includes, but is not exclusive to, manholes, clean outs, lift
stations, private connections and the like. Any exceptions to this rule must be
applied for in writing and approved by the Town Council and the Utility
Superintendent in advance of dumping. An appropriate fee shall be determined by
the Utility Superintendent according to the type and amount of waste to be
discharged into the town's collection system.
   (G)   Two residential lots with single meter. In the event two or more
residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings discharging sanitary
sewage, water or other liquids into the town's sanitary sewage system, either
directly or indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of water is
measured by a single water meter, then in each such case, for billing purposes,
the quantity of water used will be averaged for each user and the minimum
charge and the sewage rates and charges shall apply to each of the number of
residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings served through the single
water meter.
   (H)   Sprinkler credit. In order that domestic and residential users of
sewage services shall not be penalized for the sprinkling of lawns during the
months of June, July, August, and September, the billing for sewage service for
residences and/or domestic users for said months of June, July, August, and
September shall be based on the average water usage for the previous months of
December, January, February, and March. In the event the average water usage
for said previous months of December, January, February, and March is greater
than the water usage for said months of June, July, August, and/or September,
then the billing for sewage service shall be computed on the actual water used
in the month for which the sewage bill is being rendered. Domestic and/or
residential sewage service, as applicable to the sprinkling rate, shall apply
to each lot, parcel of real estate, or building which is occupied and used as a
residence. Said sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are
partially or wholly used for industrial and commercial purposes. In the event a
portion of such premise shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes,
the owner shall have the privilege of separating the water so the residential
portion of the premises is served through a separate meter, and in such case,
the water usage as registered by the water meter serving such portion of the
premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the sprinkling rate.
   (I)   Late fees. Use of sewer services as above provided shall be charged
and collected each month. All sewer bills shall be rendered as of the first day
of the month following the month for which charges are made and shall be due
and payable upon receipt. A late fee of 10% shall be charged if full payment is
not received by the fifteenth of the month in which said sewer bills are
rendered and each month thereafter until paid in full.
   (J)   Capacity charge. Each user of the Sewage Works, upon being connected
to the system, shall pay a capacity charge for such connection, which charge
shall be made directly to the user in the amount of $3,565, which said amount
may be amended by the Town Council from time to time. Upon request of the
property owner subject to the capacity charge outlined herein, the capacity
charge may be paid off over a period of 60 months in equal payments with no
interest.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 4-28-2015; Ord. 2021-2, passed 2-9-2021; Ord. 2022-18,
passed 11-1-2022; Ord. 2024-19, passed 2-3-2025)
§ 51.076 MANNER AND PREPARATION OF BILLING: EXAMINATION OF RECORDS BY PROPERTY
OWNERS.
   (A)   The rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the town and
shall be collected in the manner provided by law and ordinance. Such rates and
charges will be billed to the tenant occupying the property served, unless
otherwise requested in writing by the owners, but such billing shall in no way
be construed to relieve the owner from liability in the event payment in not
made as herein required.
   (B)   The owners of the property served, which is occupied by tenants, shall
have the right to examine the collection records of the town for the purpose of
determining whether such rates and charges have been paid by such tenants;
provided that, such examination shall be made in the office in which such
records are kept and during the hours that such office is open for business.
(1980 Code, § 14-29) (Ord. 3-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 51.077 EFFECTIVE DATE; AUTOMATIC EXTENSION.
   The rates and charges herein set forth shall become effective beginning on
the first day of the calendar month immediately following the month in which
the ordinance from which this section is derived is adopted. These rates and
charges shall be extended to and cover any additional premises thereafter
served, without the necessity of any notice or hearing.
(1980 Code, § 14-3) (Ord. 3-1977, passed - -1977)
*** INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY ***
§ 51.090 FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION.
   Industrial cost recovery shall be based on the following factors.
   (A)   Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each industrial
user of the treatment works shall pay its share of the total grant amount
divided by the recovery period.
   (B)   The industrial cost recovery period shall be 30 years.
   (C)   Payments shall be made by industrial users no less often than
annually. The first payment by an industrial user shall be made not later than
one year after such user begins use of the treatment works.
   (D)   An industrial user’s share shall be based on all factors which
significantly influence the cost of the treatment works. Factors such as
strength, volume and delivery of flow rate characteristics shall be considered
and included to insure a proportional distribution of the grant amount
allocable to industrial use to all industrial users of the treatment works. As
a minimum, an industry’s share shall be based on its flow versus treatment
works capacity, except in unusual cases.
   (E)   If there is a substantial change in the strength, volume or delivery
flow rate characteristics introduced into the treatment works by an industrial
user, such user’s share shall be adjusted accordingly.
   (F)   If there is an expansion or upgrading of the treatment works, each
existing industrial user’s share shall be adjusted accordingly.
   (G)   An industrial user’s name shall not include any portion of the grant
amount allocable to unused or unreserved capacity.
   (H)   An industrial user’s share shall include any firm commitment to the
town of increased use by such user.
   (I)   An industrial user’s share shall not include an interest component.
(1980 Code, § 14-34) (Ord. 2-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 51.091 AMOUNTS TO BE RECOVERED FROM EACH INDUSTRIAL CLASS USER.
   The amounts to be recovered annually from each industrial class user shall
be determined in accordance with the three formulas set out below.
   (A)   For flow-related recovery, the formula for each industrial class user
shall be:
RF-FC x  User flow - Annually x 1
Design flow - Annually 30 years
   Where:
   RF = Industrial cost recovery based on flow
   RC = Capital costs which are flow-related
   (B)   For BOD-related recovery, the formula for each industrial class user
shall be:
RB=BC x User loading - Pounds (based on 200 mg/l as minimum x
Design capacity - Pounds 30 years
   Where
   RB = Industrial cost recovery based on BOD loading
   BC = Capital costs which are strength-related
   (C)   For suspended solids-related recovery, the formula for each industrial
class user shall be:
RS =SC x User loading - Pounds (based on 250 mg/l as minimum
x Design capacity - Pounds 30 years
      Where:
   RS = Industrial cost recovery based on suspended loading
   RC = Capital costs which are strength-related
   (D)   Until such time as a unit process cost study is developed, the amounts
of capital costs used in the formulae in divisions (A), (B) and (C) above shall
be 40% of total capital costs for flow and 30% each for BOD and suspended
solids.
(1980 Code, § 14-35) (Ord. 2-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 51.092 USE OF AMOUNTS RECOVERED.
   (A)   The town shall retain 50% of the amounts recovered from industrial
users. The remainder, together with any interest earned thereon, shall be
returned to the United States Treasury on an annual basis.
   (B)   (1)   A minimum of 80% of the retained amounts, together with interest
earned thereon, shall be used solely for the eligible costs of the expansion of
reconstruction of treatment works associated with the project and necessary to
meet the requirements of the Environmental Protection Agency. The town shall
obtain the written approval of the Regional Administrator of such agency prior
to commitment of the retained amounts for any expansion and reconstruction.
      (2)   The remainder of the retained amounts may be used as the town sees
fit.
   (C)   Pending use, the town shall:
      (1)   Invest the restrained amounts for reconstruction and expansion in
obligations of the United States Government;
      (2)   Invest the retained amounts for reconstruction and expansion in
obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States
Government or any agency thereof; or
      (3)   Deposit such amounts in accounts fully collateralized by
obligations of the United States Government or by obligations fully guaranteed
as to principal and interest by the United States Government or any agency
thereof.
(1980 Code, § 14-36) (Ord. 2-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 51.093 NEW INDUSTRIAL CLASS USERS TO BE SUBJECT TO PROVISIONS OF SUBCHAPTER;
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY TO BE NOTIFIED.
   (A)   Any new industrial class user who shall, in the future, desire to
connect to the town’s sewage works shall be subject to the industrial cost
recovery provisions set forth in §§
51.090 and
51.091 of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the time a new industrial class user becomes
connected to and is a user of the town’s sewage works, the town shall notify
the Environmental Protection Agency in writing of such connection.
(1980 Code, § 14-37) (Ord. 2-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 51.094 TOWN TO MAINTAIN ACCURATE RECORDS; INSPECTION BY ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY AUTHORIZED.
   The town shall maintain complete and accurate waste discharge records,
including reports furnished by industrial class users, and shall hold such
available for inspection by representatives of the Environmental Protection
Agency at all reasonable times.
(1980 Code, § 14-38) (Ord. 2-1977, passed - -1977)
*** PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS ***
**** DIVISION 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.110 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for all users of the
sewer system components of the publicly owned treatment works (POTW) of the
town and to enable the town to comply with all applicable state and federal
laws, including the Clean Water Act and the general pretreatment regulations.
The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the discharge to, and use of, public and private sewers
within the service area of the publicly owned treatment works of the town; and
the installation and construction of service connections to building sewer
within the town sewer service area;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (3)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (4)   To protect the POTW, all POTW personnel and the general public from
unregulated discharge of wastewater whose constituents could endanger the POTW
system and the health and welfare of the POTW personnel or the general public;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
      (6)   To enable the town to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject; and
      (7)   To establish a pretreatment program for the regulation and control
of industrial discharges through the issuance and enforcement of industrial
wastewater discharge permits that set forth the terms, conditions and
regulations under which non-compatible wastewaters may be discharged in the
town’s POTW.   
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned
treatment works.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.111 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the Superintendent shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Any powers
granted to or duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the
Superintendent to other POTW personnel, such delegation(s) shall be in writing
and available for public review.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.112 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this subchapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
CBOD  Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand
TBOD  Total biochemical oxygen demand
CFR   Code of Federal Regulations
COD   Chemical oxygen demand
EPA   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd   gallon per day
IDEM  Indiana Department of Environmental Management
IU    Industrial user
NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
mg/L  Milligrams per liter
POTW  Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA  Resource Conservation and Recover Act
SIC   Standard industrial classification
SIU   Significant industrial user
SNC   Significant non-compliance
TSS   Total suspended solids
 
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.113 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended.
   AMMONIA or NH3 – N. Ammonia measured as nitrogen. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the
latest edition of 40 C.F.R. Part 136.3.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal, state and/or local) contained in this subchapter and
considered to be most restrictive with which non-domestic users will be
required to comply.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The State of Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM).
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in subsections (1) through (3), may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates of having
overall responsibility for environmental matter for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the Superintendent.
   AVERAGE MONTHLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of
“daily discharges” over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily
discharges measured during a calendar month divided by the number of daily
discharges measured during that month.
   AVERAGE WEEKLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of “daily
discharges” over a calendar week, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges
measured during a calendar week divided by the number of daily discharges
measured during that week.
   BENEFICIAL USES. These uses include, but are not limited to, domestic,
municipal, agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation,
aesthetic enjoyment, navigation, and the preservation and enhancement of fish,
wildlife and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses, both tangible
or intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). The schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
implement the prohibitions listed in §
51.125(A) and (B) [40 C.F.R. 403.5(a)(1) and (b)]. BMPs include treatment
requirements, operating procedures and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sledge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage. BMPs also include alternative means (for example, management plans) or
complying with, or in place of certain established categorical pretreatment
standards and effluent limits.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure for
five days at 20º C., usually expressed as a concentration (such as, mg/l). The
BOD measurement may be specified as CBOD or TBOD. The laboratory determinations
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the latest edition of
40 C.F.R. Part 136.3.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building
drainage system which receives the discharge from waste, and other drainage
pipes inside the wall of the building and conveys it to a point approximately
five feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clean water drainage but not wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER (OR DRAIN) SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER (LATERAL). A pipe which is connected to the building (or
house) drain at a point approximately five feet outside the foundation wall of
the building and which conveys the building’s discharge from that point to the
public sewer, to a septic tank or other place of disposal.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS (CATEGORICAL STANDARDS). Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with
Sections 307(b) and (c) which apply to a specific category of users and which
appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. A measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion
of organic matter in wastewater that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong
chemical oxidant, as determined by approved EPA or Standard Methods.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer pipe intended to receive sanitary, commercial and
industrial wastewaters as well as stormwater from storm events.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacterial, plus any additional pollutants identified in the
POTW’s NPDES permit, where the POTW is designated to treat such pollutants and,
in fact, does remove such pollutants to the degree required by the POTW’s NPDES
permit or to a substantial degree. Substantial degree is not subject to precise
definition but generally contemplates removals in the order of 85% or greater.
Minor incidental removals in the order of 10 to 40% are not considered
substantial. Except as prohibited herein or where these materials would
interfere with the operation and performance of the POTW, examples of
additional pollutants which may be considered compatible, depending on
concentration, include: chemical oxygen demand, total organic carbon,
phosphorus and phosphorus compounds, ammonia, E-coli, fats, oils and greases of
animal or vegetable origin.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. The sample resulting from the combination of individual
samples taken at selected intervals based on the increment of flow or time.
Composite wastewater samples shall contain a minimum of four discrete samples
taken at equal time intervals over the compositing period or proportional to
the flow rate over the compositing period.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Town Council.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling, refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge measured during a calendar day or any 24-hour
period that reasonably represents the calendar day for purposes of sampling.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all revenue bonds or other long-term debt.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land by others.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may by present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge that is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of “normal
domestic sewage”.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with Section 307 of the Act.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow of the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   GROUND (SHREDDED) GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded to such a degree
that all particles will be carried freely in suspension under conditions
normally prevailing in the sewage system, with no particle being greater than
one-half inch in dimension.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, grease interceptors and traps, and
vacuum pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or introduction of non-domestic pollutants
into the POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c),
or (d) of the Act.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow or escaping from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial, or business process or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resources carried on by any person, exclusive of
sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering the sewer system, including building
drains, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to, defective
pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does not
include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFLOW/INFILTRATION (I/I). I/I is the total quantity of water from both
inflow and infiltration without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. Water discharged and entering into the sewer system including
building drains, from such sources such as, but not limited to roof, down
spouts, cellars yard, area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water,
drains from springs and swampy areas, and combined sewers, catch basins,
stormwater run-off, street wash water and drainage. (INFLOW does not include
and is distinguishable from infiltration.)
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the
analysis of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of the
industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes, operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and therefore,
is a cause of a violation of the town’s NPDES permit or of the prevention of
sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the following
statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more
stringent state or local regulations: Section 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D or the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
   MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. The highest allowable daily discharge
for a calendar day or specified 24-hour period.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System for discharge
of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Section
402 of PL 92-500.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c)
of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of subsection (1)(b) or(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this subsection has
commenced it the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program;
         (b)   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
         (c)   Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation
or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is necessary
for the placement, assembly, or installation or new source facilities or
equipment; or
         (d)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment, which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this subsection.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   Wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
         (a)   TSS not more than 225 mg/l;
         (b)   CBOD not more than 200 mg/l;
         (c)   Ammonia-N not more than 20 mg/l;
         (d)   COD not more than 500 mg/l; and
         (e)   Phosphorous not more than 5 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences are distinct from industrial processes.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the town’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ion expressed in standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rocks, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural, industrial wastes
and certain characteristics of wastewater (such as, pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, TBOD, CBOD, COD, toxicity or odor) discharged or carried in
water.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Pretreatment standards shall mean prohibited
discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of
certain substances.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works, as defined by
Section 212 of the Act which is owned by the town. This definition includes any
devices or systems used in the collection, pumping, storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature
and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Normal domestic sewage.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer or system of pipes for conveying sanitary,
commercial and industrial wastewaters and into which stormwater and/or water
from storm events are not intentionally admitted.
   SEPTAGE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets,
campers, trailer and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids (see also I.C. 36-9-1-8).
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments
singular or in any combination, together with such ground, surface and storm
water as may be present.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit or system of pipes and conduits for carrying sewage
or other waste liquids.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).
      (1)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   A user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler
blow-down wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the town on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection (2)
has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the town may, at any time,
on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a user, and in
accordance with the Act, determine that such user should not be considered a
significant industrial user.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration that could
cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
51.125. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent, or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published by the American Water Works Association, the
Water Environmental Federation and the American Public Health Association.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer or system of pipes for conveying surface water or
ground water from any source and into which sanitary and/or industrial wastes
are not intentionally admitted.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT, SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWAGE, OR UTILITY
SUPERINTENDENT. The Wastewater Superintendent designated by the Town Council to
supervise the operation of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this subchapter, or a duly authorized representative.   
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering usually expressed as a concentration (such
as, mg/l). The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in the latest edition of 40 C.F.R. Part 136.3.
   TOTAL TOXIC ORGANICS (TTOS). TTOs are toxic organics, as defined and
analytically measured by definition in the Federal Register.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which upon exposure to or assimilation into an organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in Section 307(a) of the Act,
as well as any other known potential substance capable of producing toxic
effects.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of non-compliance with applicable standards due to
factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger, and excluding non-
compliance to the extent caused by operator error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative
maintenance, or careless or improper operation of the facilities.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
residential, commercial, industrial or any other type of wastewater into the
town’s POTW. Users may be classified as residential, commercial, industrial or
governmental/institutional as may be appropriate to identify the type of
wastewater that the user contributes to the wastewater system.   
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate and other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT (TREATMENT PLANT). That portion of the POTW that
is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and
stormwater that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is
contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.114 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, survey, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits, and monitoring
programs, and from the Superintendent’s inspection and sampling activities,
shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the user
specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent, that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes, or methods or production entitled to protection as trade secrets
under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data. When requested and demonstrated by the
user furnishing a report that such information should be held confidential, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made
available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to
the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics and other “effluent data” as defined by 40 C.F.R. 2.302 will
not be recognized as confidential information and will be available to the
public without restriction.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.115 PUBLICATION OF USERS OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The town shall publish annually, in the largest daily newspaper published in
the municipality where the POTW is located, a list of the users which, during
the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements. The term significant noncompliance
shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit for the same pollutant
parameter by any amount;
   (B)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter
during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the daily maximum
limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD,
TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other discharge violation that the Superintendent believes has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
   (D)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 60 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction or attaining final
compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation(s) that the Superintendent determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
**** DIVISION 2. GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS ****
§ 51.125 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, permit to be
deposited or discharge to any natural outlet within the town or any area under
the jurisdiction of the town any sanitary, commercial, industrial or polluted
wastewater except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
this subchapter.
   (B)   Except as herein provided, no person shall construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other wastewater treatment
facility intended or used for the treatment and/or disposal of sewage.
   (C)   No person shall construct, repair, modify or alter a sewer lateral,
public sewer, manhole or other sewer system appurtenance without first
obtaining permission from the Superintendent.
   (D)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, pipe or equipment which is a part of the sewage system. Any
person violating this provision shall be held liable for any damages caused any
part of the sewage system.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof run-off, parking lot run-off, cooling water
or unpolluted industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer.
   (F)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of such
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (G)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose situated in the town and
abutting on any street, alley, right-of-way or easement in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the town, are hereby required at their own expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein and to connect such facilities and industrial waste outlets
directly with the public sewer in accordance with this subchapter within 90
days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that such public
sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
   (H)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing the town from entering into an agreement between the town and any
industrial discharger whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the town for treatment subject to payment for
treatment services by the industrial discharger.
   (I)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to pay for the
cost of constructing the sewer lateral from the building to the public sewer.
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to pay for the cost of
maintaining the sewer lateral from the building to the public sewer.
   (J)   A separate and independent sanitary sewer lateral shall be provided
for each and every building, except present sewer structures in use; and except
that where one building stands at the rear of another on the same lot and no
sanitary sewer can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard or driveway, the sewer lateral from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole sewer lateral considered as one
sewer lateral for the single property.
   (K)   Old building sanitary sewer laterals may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found on examination and testing by the
Superintendent to meet all requirements of new sanitary sewer laterals.
   (L)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, joint
testing, and back filling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplifications thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and Water Pollution Control
Facilities (WPCF) Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply. All sewer laterals
shall:    
      (1)   Be of a six-inch or larger in size, for gravity laterals;
      (2)   Be fitted into an approved “tee” or “Y” fitting into sewer mains of
12 inches or smaller in size;
      (3)   On 12" or larger sewers all saddle connections shall be of an
approved type with a positive seal on the connection to the lateral; and
      (4)   All connections to the public sewer shall be made gas tight and
water tight.
   (M)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an accepted means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (N)   The construction of all sewers, components, systems or private sewers
that connect to the town sewer system shall comply with the requirements of the
Wastewater Department’s construction standards. The acceptance of the
applicability of these standards to all sewers shall be considered part of the
terms for the approval of connection to the town sewer system.
   (O)   The construction of combined sewers is prohibited. All new sewers
constructed within the town wastewater system must be constructed as separate
sanitary sewers or as separate storm sewers per the standards described.   
   (P)   Any new building connection that may contribute inflow or clear water
to an existing combined sewer must be approved by the Superintendent before
construction and must be made separate and distinct from the sanitary waste
connection to facilitate disconnection of the inflow or clear water connection
if, and when, a separate storm sewer subsequently becomes available.
   (Q)   The Superintendent may require any new construction to have a delay
inflow or a flow equalization structure that discharges into the sewer system
in the town.   
(Ord. passed - - 2011) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.126 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater that causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.   
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:   
      (1)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 25 parts per
million, by weight of soluble oils;
      (2)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flash point of
less than 140º F. (60º C.) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R.
260.21;
      (3)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 10, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than 3/4-inch in dimension;
      (5)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (6)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 140º F., or which will
inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference,
but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into
the treatment plant to exceed 104º F. (40º C.);
      (7)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (8)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (9)   Trucked or hauled pollutants;
      (10)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (11)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit;
      (12)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
run-off, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Town Council;
      (14)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (15)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the Town
Council in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (16)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail its NPDES toxicity test;
      (17)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (18)   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, or more than
10% or any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit of the meter;
      (19)   Materials, including but not limited to sand, gravel, trash and
construction debris, causing, alone or in conjunction with other materials
normally in the sewer system, an obstruction to the flow in the sewer line or
system or injury to the sewer system or cause a nuisance or prevention of
effective maintenance or operation of the sewer; or
      (20)   Fats, oils or grease of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l.
   (C)   Prohibitions. Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this
section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be
discharged to the POTW.
(Ord. passed - - 2011) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.127 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter
N, Parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated by reference.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the Town
Council, through the designated Pretreatment Coordinator, may impose equivalent
concentration or mass limits in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Town Council,
through the designated Pretreatment Coordinator, shall impose an alternate
limit using the combined waste stream formula in 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.15.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.128 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The state’s pretreatment standards are hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.129 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass
through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing in
excess of the following maximum allowable discharge limits based upon a 24-hour
flow composite sample. No single sample portion of the 24-hour flow composite
sample or instantaneous sample shall be in excess of the four times the daily
maximum concentration.
1.5 mg/l   total aluminum
0.003 mg/l total mercury
0.03 mg/l  total arsenic
1.0 mg/l   total molybdenum
0.15 mg/l  total cadmium
1.0 mg/l   total nickel
1.0 mg/l   total chromium
5.0 mg/l   total phosphorous
0.5 mg/l   total copper
0.10 mg/l  total selenium
0.15 mg/l  total cyanide
0.25 mg/l  total silver
10.0 mg/l  total iron
0.5 mg/l   total phenols
0.5 mg/l   total lead
1.0 mg/l   total zinc
 
   (B)   Total toxic organics (TTOs) - limits for those parameters on the TTO
list will be considered on an individual case by case basis, by the Town
Council, for those not listed in the 40 C.F.R. The Council shall consider such
factors including, but not limited to: concentration, loading, flow to the
wastewater treatment plant and other consideration necessary to prevent pass
through and protect the POTW.
   (C)   Any wastewater containing in excess of 200 mg/l of CBOD5, or 225 mg/
l total suspended solids, or 20 mg/l ammonia-N, or 500 mg/l chemical oxygen
demand, or 5 mg/l total phosphorous will be surcharged as high strength
wastewater. Surcharges may be for CBOD5 or COD, but not for both. The issuance
of surcharges for treating high strength wastewater shall not be construed as
acceptance of high strength wastewaters for treatment by the town. The town
reserves the right and authority to prohibit the discharge of high strength
wastewater when such wastewaters cause or are reasonably expected to cause POTW
upsets, overloading or damage to the sewer collection system.
   (D)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
into the public sewer. The Town Council may impose mass limitations in addition
to, or in place of, the concentration-based limitations above.
(Ord. passed - - 2011) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.130 TOWN’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in industrial
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the POTW.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.131 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. passed - - 2011) Penalty, see §
51.999
**** DIVISION 3. PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER ****
§ 51.145 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Industrial users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply
with this subchapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
51.126 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the Town
Council, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance
shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed
plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to
the town for review, and shall be reviewed and approved by the town before such
facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures
shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such
facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the town under the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.146 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property, and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An industrial
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided in all necessary
cases for the proper handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts or
grease and oil, or sand; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for residential users. All interceptor units shall be of type and capacity
approved by the Superintendent and shall be so located to be easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be installed, inspected,
cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at their expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an OSHA approved gas detection meter.
   (E)   Sample manhole requirements:
      (1)   When required and deemed necessary by the Superintendent, the owner
of any property serviced by the town’s sewer shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be easily accessible and safely
located, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times. The sample manhole shall be inspected and approved by the
Superintendent.
      (2)   The sample manhole shall be water tight, sealed at all joints,
seams, risers and at the frame. The sample manhole shall be a minimum or four
feet inside diameter and five feet in height. There shall be only one pipe
through the bottom with the top ½ cut out. Minimum pipe diameter through the
manhole shall be six inches. The floor of the manhole must drain down into the
pipe as it passes through the manhole.
      (3)   Agents of the town, I.D.E.M. and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing at all times.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.147 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   At least once every two years, the Superintendent shall evaluate whether
each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug control
plan. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for approval
and implement such a plan. The Superintendent may develop such a plan for any
user who fails to develop the required plan or who does not address the minimum
criteria for a complete plan, as determined by the Superintendent. An
accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum, the
following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental or
slug discharge. Such notification must also be given for any discharge which
would violate any of the prohibited discharges in § 152.126; and
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site run-off, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.148 TENANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   Where an owner of property leases premises to any other person as a tenant
under any rental or lease agreement, if either the owner or the tenant is an
industrial user, either, or both, may be held responsible for compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.149 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Superintendent, and at such times as are established by the
Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate §§
51.125 through
51.131 or any other requirements established by the town. The Superintendent
may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent may require
generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits. The Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial
waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other
requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Superintendent. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The Superintendent
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
   (E)   The Superintendent reserves the right to charge fees for the discharge
of industrial waste or septic tank waste into the POTW in accordance with this
or any other ordinance.
(Ord. passed - - 2011) Penalty, see §
51.999
**** DIVISION 4. WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION ****
§ 51.165 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Superintendent, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within ten business days of the
request. The Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose
and may periodically require users to update this information. Failure to
complete and submit this form shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter
and subjects the user to the sanctions set out in §§ 51.225 through
51.248 and
51.999.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.166 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to §
51.167 may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require other users to obtain wastewater
discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§ 51.225 through
51.248 and
51.999. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of
its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or
requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
(Ord. passed - - 2011) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.167 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user, industrial user or significant industrial user required to obtain
a wastewater discharge permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW
prior to the effective date of this subchapter and who wishes to continue such
discharges in the future, shall, within 90 calendar days after said date, apply
to the Superintendent for a wastewater discharge permit in accordance with §
51.169, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
90 days of the effective date of this subchapter except in accordance with a
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.168 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user, industrial user or significant industrial user required to obtain
a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to begin or recommence discharging
into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of
such discharge. An application for this wastewater discharge permit, in
accordance with §
51.169, must be filed at least 90 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.169 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit
a permit application. This application must be reviewed and approved by the
Superintendent. In support of this application, the user shall submit
information including, but limited to, the following:
      (1)   Name, address and standard industrial classification (SIC) number
of applicant;
      (2)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
      (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
      (4)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (5)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (7)   Volume, time and duration of discharges;
      (8)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including those set
forth in this subchapter as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory; and
      (9)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.170 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
   “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.171 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. Within 30 working days of receipt of a complete
wastewater discharge permit application, the Superintendent will determine
whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. The Superintendent may
deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit with justifiable cause.
The Superintendent shall provide the applicant a written record documenting the
reason(s) for approving or disapproving a wastewater discharge permit
application. If no determination is made within this time period, the
application will be deemed denied.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
**** DIVISION 5. WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS ****
§ 51.185 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years from the effective date of the permit. A wastewater discharge permit may
be issued for a period less than five years, at the discretion of the
Superintendent. Each wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date
upon which it will expire. If the user is not notified by the Superintendent 30
days prior to the expiration of the permit, the permit shall automatically be
extended for three months. The terms and conditions of the permit may be
subject to modification and change by the Superintendent during the life of the
permit, as limitations or requirements as identified in §§
51.125 through
51.131 are modified and changed. The user shall be informed of any proposed
changes in its permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change.
Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule for compliance.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.186 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no case shall exceed five years;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to and approval from the town in accordance with §
51.189, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law;
      (6)   A written statement documenting the basis for the issuance of the
permit and limits; and
      (7)   A copy of the town’s sewer use ordinance.   
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
      (3)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW;
      (4)   A compliance schedule containing increments of progress with
specific dates for the commencement and completion of major events related to
the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user
to meet applicable categorical pretreatment standards, local limits or other
wastewater discharge permit provisions. A specific date for compliance with the
applicable standard, limit or condition shall be included in the schedule. No
increment of the compliance schedule shall exceed nine calendar months nor may
the total schedule exceed three calendar years;
      (5)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or non-routine
discharges;
      (6)   Development and implementation of waste minimization and/or
pollution prevention plans to reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the
POTW;
      (7)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (8)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (9)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (10)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this subchapter, state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.187 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPEALS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall provide public notice of the issuance of a
wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including the user, may petition the
Superintendent to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit within
30 working days of notice of its issuance.
   (B)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal. In its petition, the appealing party must
indicate the wastewater discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons
for this objection and the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in
the wastewater discharge permit.
   (C)   The Superintendent will either approve or deny the petition or
schedule a conference with the applicant within 30 working days of the
submission of the petition for review. Decisions not to reconsider a wastewater
discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not to modify
a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered final administrative actions
for purposes of judicial review.
   (D)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal. Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the
final administrative wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing
a complaint with a court of competent jurisdiction within 30 days.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.188 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may modify a wastewater discharge permit for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the town’s POTW, town personnel, or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater
discharge permit; or
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator.
   (B)   The filing of a request by the permittee for a wastewater discharge
permit modification does not stay any wastewater discharge permit condition(s).
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.189 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 60 working days advance notice to
the Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the wastewater discharge
permit transfer. The notice to the Superintendent must include a written
certification by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.190 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to §
51.209;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent or his/her designee timely
access to the facility premises and records;   
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines or any costs or expenses owed to the town
arising out of or related to the enforcement of this subchapter;   
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to provide advance notice or the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (12)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this subchapter.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater
discharge permit to that user.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.191 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with §
51.169, a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.192 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, political jurisdiction or user located within
another municipality or other political jurisdiction outside of the town,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Superintendent shall enter into an
agreement with the contributing political jurisdiction, user and political
jurisdiction in which the user is located.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) above,
the Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing jurisdiction and user:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing jurisdiction or user;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
jurisdiction that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
   (C)   An agreement, as required by division (A) above, shall contain the
following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing political jurisdiction and user
to adopt a sewer use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this
subchapter. The requirement shall specify that such subchapter and limits must
be revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the town’s ordinance or
local limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing political jurisdiction and user
to submit a revised user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing political
jurisdiction; which of these activities will be conducted by the
Superintendent; and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the
contributing jurisdiction and the Superintendent;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing political jurisdiction to
provide the Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
political obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
political jurisdiction’s and user’s wastewater at the point where it discharges
to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing political
jurisdiction’s discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities of
users located within the contributing political jurisdiction’s jurisdictional
boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling and any other duties deemed
necessary by the Superintendent; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intergovernmental agreement.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
**** DIVISION 6. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 51.205 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
Superintendent a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name and address of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram that indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations, or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
§
51.214.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
51.215.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and
requirements.   
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule, as
described in §
51.186(B)(3), by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/
or O&M. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A
compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out
in §
51.206.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline-monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.170.   
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.206 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
51.205(B)(7):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and final date of compliance
including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps being taken
by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than two months elapse between such progress
reports to the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.207 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in §
51.205(B)(4)-(6). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term production
rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user’s actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.170.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.208 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by the
Superintendent, but in no case, less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. All periodic
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.170.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Superintendent,
using the procedures prescribed in this subchapter, the results of this
monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.209 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Superintendent of any planned significant changes
to the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or
volume of its wastewater at least 30 working days before the change.
   (A)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
51.169.
   (B)   The Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
51.171 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
51.188 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   No industrial user shall implement the planned changed condition(s)
until and unless the Superintendent has responded to the industrial user’s
notice.
   (D)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of 10% or greater, and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. passed - - 2011) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.210 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the
Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the location of
the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and
corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   Each failure to notify the town of potential problem discharges shall
be deemed a separate violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A). Employers shall ensure that all employees,
who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.211 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the Superintendent upon receipt of a written request
from the Superintendent stating the nature of the information requested.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.212 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. The user is not required to resample if the Superintendent
monitors at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the Superintendent
samples between the user’s initial sampling and when the user receives the
results of this sampling.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.213 DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   Any discharge into the POTW of any waste, substance or material which, if
otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. Part 261 is
prohibited unless authorized by written permit signed by the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.214 ANALYTIC REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application of report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
C.F.R. Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by EPA.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.215 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B), the user must collect wastewater
samples using flow proportional composite techniques. In the event flow
proportional sampling is not feasible, the Superintendent may authorize the use
of time proportional sampling or a minimum of four grab samples where the user
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance
with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (C)   Samples for monitoring compliance of categorical industries should be
taken immediately downstream from the pretreatment facilities if such
facilities exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process if no
pretreatment facilities exist. If other wastewaters are mixed with the
regulated wastewater prior to treatment, the user should measure the flows and
concentration necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream in order to
evaluate compliance with pretreatment standards. When an alternate
concentration or mass limit has been calculated, this adjusted limit along with
the supporting data shall be submitted to the Superintendent.
   (D)   The Superintendent may use grab sample(s) to determine noncompliance
with pretreatment standards.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.216 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the U.S. postal service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.217 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this subchapter shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities, instrumentation
calibration, operation logs, reports, correspondence and sample logs required
by this subchapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant
to monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such
requirements. Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the town, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Superintendent.
   (B)   The POTW shall retain and preserve all permit files, records and
enforcement activity records for no less than three years.
   (C)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification in any application, report or other document required by the
ordinance or other applicable regulations, or who tampers with or knowingly
renders inaccurate any monitoring device, will, upon conviction be punished by
the imposition of a civil penalty as required by local and state statutes, and
enforcement response procedures.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
**** DIVISION 7. COMPLIANCE ASSURANCE AND MONITORING ****
§ 51.230 RIGHT OF ENTRY: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any
user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this
subchapter and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users
shall allow the Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for
the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties.
   (B)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (C)   The town, the state and EPA shall have the right to set up on the
user’s property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
   (D)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user’s premises shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.231 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this subchapter, or that there is a
need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program of the town designed to verify compliance with this subchapter or any
permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare or the community, then the Superintendent may seek issuance
of a search warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction. The warrant shall
specify what, if anything, may be searched and/or seized on the property
described. Such warrant shall be served by the Superintendent in the company of
a uniformed officer of the town. In the event of an emergency or violations of
significant non-compliance of this subchapter, inspections shall be made
without the issuance of a warrant.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
**** DIVISION 8. ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES ****
§ 51.245 ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   The Superintendent shall develop and publish a written enforcement response
guide outlining cause for enforcement action and the level of enforcement
action. Nothing in the enforcement response guide shall limit or restrict the
Superintendent from taking enforcement actions more severe than those published
in the enforcement response guide.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.246 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of violation (NOV).
Within 30 days of the receipt of a NOV, an explanation of the violation and
plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.247 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary
compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to
be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period
specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect
as the administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
51.248 and
51.249 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.248 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to
appear before the Superintendent and show cause why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the
time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons
for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be
served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested)
at least seven days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on any
authorized representative of the user. Whether or not the user appears as
ordered, immediate enforcement action may be pursued following the hearing. A
show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking
any other action against the user.
   (B)   The Town Council may itself conduct the hearing and take the evidence
to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Town Council notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of the witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in any such hearing; and
      (2)   Take the evidence.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.249 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may issue a compliance schedule to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time.
If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
schedules also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance
schedule may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance schedule relieve
the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance schedule shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.250 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or
that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the Superintendent may
issue a cease and desist order to the user directing it to cease and desist all
such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.   
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.251 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to exceed $1,000. Such fines
shall be assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In the case of monthly or
other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day
during the period of violation.
   (B)   Assessments may be added to the user’s next scheduled sewer service
charge and the Superintendent shall have such other collection remedies as may
be available for other service charges and fees.
   (C)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 60 calendar cays, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1-1/2% per month. A lien against the user’s
property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
   (D)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit,
the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user’s
appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto,
shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.   
   (E)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.   
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.252 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever suspension is necessary to stop an actual
or threatened discharge that reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent
or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after notice
and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of
the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the
environment.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent
may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the
sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving
stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent may allow the
user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has passed,
unless the termination proceedings in this section are initiated against the
user.
   (C)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §§
51.247 or this section.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.253 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
51.190, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
51.125 through
51.131.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
51.248 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
**** DIVISION 12. SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION ****
§ 51.265 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A violation of any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or
abated as directed by the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.266 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Superintendent may decline to reissue a wastewater discharge permit to
any user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this subchapter, any
orders, or a previous wastewater discharge permit issued hereunder, unless such
user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the town, in the sum not to
exceed a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve
consistent compliance.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.267 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Superintendent may decline to reissue a wastewater discharge permit to
any user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this subchapter, any
order, or a previous wastewater discharge permit issued hereunder, unless the
user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances sufficient
to restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its discharge.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.268 WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
subchapter, orders, or wastewater discharge permits issued hereunder, water
service to the user may be severed. Service will only recommence, at the user’s
expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated its willingness and ability
to comply.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
**** DIVISION 10. AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS ****
§ 51.280 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, “upset” means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
or division (C) are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset if this
information is provided orally. A written submission must be provided within
five days:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance and completion of an accidental discharge report;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
and, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.   
   (E)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.   
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.281 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in the ordinance if
it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge,
alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass
through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.282 BYPASS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BYPASS or BYPASSING. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any
portion of a user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow a bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause, the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue, and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written report on
a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   (1)   Bypassing is prohibited, and the POTW may take enforcement
action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) of
this section.
      (2)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in subsection (D)(1) of this section.   
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
**** DIVISION 11. PRETREATMENT PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ****
§ 51.295 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The town may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the town’s pretreatment program that may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (C)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (D)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this subchapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the town; and
   (E)   Permit fees.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.296 INDUSTRIAL USER INVENTORY.
   (A)   In order to implement the pretreatment program a survey will be
conducted of all current industrial users to identify volume and pollutant
characteristics. From this information, site visits and/or inspections, user
status will be determined and implemented.
   (B)   In order to maintain and update the industrial users in the town, the
pretreatment program shall use various methods to identify new facilities:
      (1)   Chamber of Commerce lists;
      (2)   Previous survey lists;
      (3)   Sewer connection permits;
      (4)   Field observation;
      (5)   Contact from potential industries; and
      (6)   Word of mouth.
   (C)   New industries subject to pretreatment requirements are issued an
industrial discharge permit and added to the master list of regulated
industries, and categorized either categorical or non-categorical, by volume or
nature of discharge. This list is maintained and reviewed and is part of the
quarterly compliance report submitted to the approval authority (IDEM) along
with compliance activities.
   (D)   To maintain an accurate characterization of the type, volume and
quality of discharge of the industrial users, POTW personnel shall utilize the
following:
      (1)   Scheduled and unscheduled facility inspections;
      (2)   Industries requirement to report changed discharges;
      (3)   Observation from pretreatment personnel;
      (4)   Information on industrial discharge permit applications; and
      (5)   Review of monthly discharge reports (self-monitoring).
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.297 COMPLIANCE MONITORING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Compliance monitoring activities conducted by POTW personnel shall be
necessary to identify and document violations that can be presented as
admissible and irrefutable evidence in administrative actions and legal
proceedings. Industrial compliance with applicable regulations is determined
and evaluated through:
      (1)   Self-monitoring data from industrial uses;
      (2)   Inspections conducted by POTW personnel;
      (3)   Surveillance sampling and analysis conducted by POTW personnel; and
      (4)   Evaluation by POTW personnel of application information.
   (B)   Self-monitoring data is required by most permitted industrial users.
All reports are monthly, on forms which are prescribed by the Superintendent to
ensure all necessary information is submitted. Each report must also be signed
by an authorized representative of the industry. Such data is in itself
evidence if violations are identified.
   (C)   Inspections by POTW personnel shall be conducted to verify compliance
and to identify any potential problems or violations. A standard inspection
shall be used to ensure all area are evaluated. Documentation must be signed
and dated by the inspector. If noncompliance situations are noted, follow-up
shall be conducted with the industry.
   (D)   Compliance monitoring requires strict adherence to standard
procedures. Personnel trained in sampling and inspection protocol are required
to collect samples and complete a field chain-of-custody form which accompanies
each sample. This form shall follow the sample through the analytical process
to maintain its identity and to assign to it the proper results. Each person
receiving custody of the sample is required to sign the chain-of-custody form.
   (E)   Information submitted by industrial users on the industrial discharge
permit application must be evaluated for compliance. The Superintendent must
also determine if the industrial user has failed to document information
necessary to complete the application. Failure to disclose vital information is
a violation of (40 C.F.R. 403) regulations. The application form shall contain
a statement attesting to the accuracy and completeness of the information
submitted which must also be signed by an authorized representative of the
industrial user.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.298 DATA SCREENING.
   (A)   The majority of data to be screened and evaluated shall be generated
through industrial self-monitoring and pretreatment group compliance
monitoring. All data gathered by these two activities shall be reviewed by the
Superintendent.
   (B)   On a monthly basis, a noncompliance report shall be submitted to the
Superintendent. Each violation shall be noted and appropriate enforcement
action is initiated. The specific responses and time frames are detailed in the
enforcement response procedures.
   (C)   In addition, a report of all facilities which failed to submit a
discharge monitoring report (DMR), or submitted the report late, shall also be
submitted to the Superintendent. Enforcement of this violation is explained in
the enforcement response procedures.
   (D)   Screening and tracking of reports submitted as part of compliance
schedule activities are required. Enforcement action shall be taken if required
reports are not received or if milestones are missed. Upon completion of all
compliance schedule activities, a review shall be made to determine compliance.
   (E)   Test results from the pretreatment group and industrial user’s self-
monitoring shall be filed.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.299 IDENTIFICATION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violation identification of pretreatment requirements, regardless of
the severity, shall initiate the enforcement procedures. Discovery of a
violation may occur as a result of any number of activities. Means of
identifying violations are as follows:
      (1)   Review of pretreatment sampling results;
      (2)   Review of industrial user self-monitoring results;
      (3)   Spill/accidental discharge reports from industrial users;
      (4)   Twenty-four hour notification by industrial user of violations;
      (5)   Site visits/inspections by POTW personnel;
      (6)   Information provided by the public;
      (7)   Observations by field personnel; and
      (8)   Review of compliance schedule requirements.
   (B)   Once violations are identified, it shall be the responsibility of
pretreatment personnel to implement the appropriate enforcement response, with
approval by the Superintendent. When determining an appropriate response,
particularly one which includes the imposition of penalties, the specific
procedures which are outlined in the enforcement response procedures must be
followed.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.300 TRACKING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Industrial users shall be required to submit various reports and
information as a result of a number of compliance activities. Reports or
information required from industry on a regular basis must be logged and
tracked to ensure compliance with deadlines and submittal dates. The following
items are required to be submitted on specific dates:
      (1)   Monthly reports;
      (2)   Industrial discharge permit applications;
      (3)   Compliance schedule progress reports;
      (4)   Accidental discharge reports following spills;
      (5)   Written response to notices of violations;
      (6)   Baseline monitoring reports; and
      (7)   Special correspondence.
   (B)   All data shall be tracked to ensure compliance with required
submission dates.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.301 SCHEDULING INDUSTRIAL INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Each facility permitted as a significant user by the Brookville
Pretreatment Program must be inspected at least three times per year. However,
many facilities will receive numerous inspections/visits during a given year to
track compliance schedule activities, verify changes in discharge or processes,
maintain a regulatory presence, or follow up accidental discharges.
   (B)   Scheduling shall be done on a random basis and tracked and logged on
an inspection tracking file. Depending upon the situation, advance notice by
telephone may be given but shall not be required.
   (C)   Other inspections shall be conducted according to needs or for
verification of compliance.
   (D)   All insignificant users shall be inspected yearly unless they are
removed from further survey. To be removed from further inspections, a facility
must be inspected and deemed as non-impact and strictly domestic discharger.
This data shall be updated annually and provided to the control authority
(IDEM).
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
**** DIVISION 12. ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PROCEDURES ****
§ 51.315 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PROCEDURES DEFINED.
   (A)   The enforcement response procedures (ERP) contains detailed procedures
on how the town’s pretreatment program investigates and responds to instances
of industrial user (IU) and/or non-residential noncompliance. It is to be
understood that if an industrial user’s noncompliance persists after
notification by the pretreatment group, the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management may proceed with enforcement action directly against the user. IDEM
may also take its own enforcement action independently of the town or in
conjunction with other enforcement actions.
   (B)   With this in mind, action taken by the town is preferable to that of
IDEM’s. EPA retains its authority to take its own enforcement action where the
state or town has not taken timely or appropriate action.
   (C)   These procedures have been promulgated by the EPA, to include ranges
of enforcement responses available to the town. In any specific case, factors
may warrant different responses than those contained in these procedures for a
variety of reasons, such as, the degree of variance from pretreatment
standards, duration of violation, previous enforcement actions, and the
deterrent effect of the response.
   (D)   These procedures address a broad range of pretreatment violations. It
is not the intention of these procedures, therein, to limit the enforcement
discretion of any of the administering agencies.
   (E)   It should be noted that the Clean Water Act clearly expresses that all
extraordinary efforts are required by industry to comply with pretreatment
standards.
   (F)   Enforcement of this subchapter shall be subject to enforcement actions
within the federal law, state law or town code, the severity of the violation
and the site operator’s efforts to comply. The town shall reserve the right to
interpret enforcement on a case by case basis. Tiered enforcement will be
practiced at the town’s discretion. The tiered enforcement may include:
      (1)   Verbal warning to the site operator to make corrections;
      (2)   Written warning to the site operator to make corrections within a
specified period of time. The period of time shall take into account issues
such as the severity of the problem, pending weather, seasonal conditions and
the level of effort necessary to correct the problem;
      (3)   Warning of non-compliance with directions to the site operator that
site conditions require immediate action;
      (4)   Stop work order; and
      (5)   Fines as may be permissible under the municipal code and this
subchapter .
   (G)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.316 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by the town’s personnel, also known as the
control authority. The personnel shall be considered the Superintendent’s duly
authorized representatives in all enforcement activities, fines, and actions
relating to this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.317 JUDGMENT CRITERIA.
   (A)   Industries and all non-residential users found not to be in compliance
with federal, state and local requirements are subject to the conditions of
these ordinance procedures. Informal enforcement actions, verbal telephone
notices, letters of violation, site visits, administrative orders, enforcement
compliance schedules and administrative fines shall be conducted by the
pretreatment group under the supervision of the Superintendent. Enforcement
actions which require legal action are made by the Town Council upon
recommendation of the Superintendent of the POTW.
   (B)   Violations and discrepancies that have been identified during the
review process shall be evaluated as to the type of enforcement response
necessary by the Superintendent of the POTW. In order to maintain equitable
treatment of violators and provide a stronger basis for selection of
appropriate responses to violations, the following enforcement response
procedures (ERP) will normally be followed, unless mitigating circumstances can
be shown.
   (C)   The enforcement response procedures identify the type of noncompliance
and circumstances which might vary the type of response for that particular
category of noncompliance. The enforcement response procedures have been
developed with the intention of serving three main purposes:
      (1)   It recommends enforcement responses that are appropriate in
relation to the nature and severity of the violation and overall degree of
noncompliance;
      (2)   It provides the procedures to encourage a uniform application of
enforcement responses to comparable levels in types of violations, and can be
used as a mechanism to review the appropriate response; and
      (3)   It allows the industrial community to realize the importance of the
pretreatment program along with proper operation of equipment, meeting of
standards and limits, along with responses by the pretreatment group, if, and
when various violations occur.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.318 TYPES OF ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE.
   (A)   In order to provide a concise manual in a usable format, acronyms are
used for several types of responses. The definitions for these acronyms are
listed below in increasing order of severity. They are:
      (1)   VTN - verbal telephone notice. Is meant to describe a response to a
very minor type of violation which is normally conveyed verbally to the contact
person at the industry and no further follow up normally is expected. An
example might be when there is a very minor infraction, such as a report being
received one or two days late with no other infractions.
      (2)   SV - site visit. A visit to the industrial site to discuss and
observe the problem. This may be a substitution for VTN or LOV. The SV may also
be made in conjunction with a letter of violation. The SV may also require a
response within ten days, indicating a reason for the noncompliance and what
steps are being taken to eliminate any future violations of this nature. A
field visit report shall be filled out upon each visit.   
      (3)   LOV - letter of violation. Is a written notification to the
industrial user indicating the type of apparent violation and requiring a
response within ten days, indicating a reason for the noncompliance and what
steps are being taken to eliminate any future violations of this nature.   
      (4)   AO - administrative order. An administrative order would be in such
cases where the noncompliance has been recognized and the Superintendent shall
require the industrial user to perform corrective actions.   
      (5)   AF - administrative fine.  An administrative fine would be in such
cases where all lower types of enforcement responses have failed and/or where
deemed appropriate by the Superintendent because of the nature and/or intent of
the violation. The next response step is court action. The administrative fine
step exists to try to prevent court activity and yet correct the problem, and/
or show the seriousness of the problem to the industry involved. The maximum
administrative fine shall be $1,000 per violation with each day being deemed a
separate violation. The administrative fine may also be part of an
administrative order, enforcement compliance schedule, or may be instituted as
the next step above an administrative order.   
      (6)   LIT - litigation.  Litigation is utilized to define several courses
of action, including civil suits for injunctive relief and/or civil penalties,
criminal suits, termination of service, and the like, these types of actions
would all involve the courts and would follow the procedures necessary for due
process.   
   (B)   Utilizing the enforcement response procedures, the Superintendent
shall initiate the appropriate response and see that the files have been
updated to show the type of action being taken. The Superintendent shall
initiate any field surveying which he or she feels appropriate to substantiate
previous data received, or to check the response of an industrial user to the
action which they have indicated that they have taken.
   (C)   At the end of any EPA established six-month period, the Superintendent
shall be responsible for reviewing the industry files to determine any SNCs,
and if so, the Superintendent shall be responsible for seeing that the SNCs are
tabulated on an annual basis and that the name of all SNCs are published in the
local daily newspaper.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.319 SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Significant noncompliance (SNC) are instances which meet one or more of the
following criteria:
   (A)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits;
      (1)   Chronic violations: Sixty-six percent or more of the measurements
exceed the same daily maximum limit or the same average limit in a six month
period.
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC): Thirty-three percent or more of
the measurements exceed the same daily maximum limit or the same average limit
by more than the TRC in a six-month period. There are two groups of TRCs:
         (a)   Group I.  for conventional pollutants (BOD, TSS, fats, oil and
grease - animal or vegetable, non-regulated petroleum hydrocarbons, phosphorus,
ammonia, pH), TRC = 1.4 of daily maximum limits as defined in this subchapter.
         (b)   Group II. For all other pollutants, TRC = 1.2 of daily maximum
limits as defined in this subchapter.
      (3)   Any other violation or violations of an effluent limit (average or
daily maximum) that the Superintendent believes has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interferences (such as, slug loads) or pass
through, or endangered the health of the sewage treatment personnel or the
public.
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant which has caused imminent endangerment
to human health/welfare or to the environment and resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge.
   (B)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a local
control mechanism or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date.
   (C)   Failure to provide reports for any compliance schedules, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports and any other report due within 30
days from the due date.
   (D)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
   (E)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Superintendent
considers to be significant.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.320 TIME FRAMES FOR RESPONSES.
   (A)   All violations shall be identified and documented by the pretreatment
group within five working days of receiving noncompliance information.
   (B)   Any violation shall involve contact by the pretreatment group with the
industrial user and request of information on corrective or preventative
actions(s), and shall occur within 30 days of violation detection.
   (C)   When a compliance schedule is required, the pretreatment group shall
notify the IU of the requirement within 60 days.
   (D)   Violations which threaten health, property or environmental quality
shall be considered emergencies and shall receive immediate responses such as
halting the discharges or terminating service, as per discretion of the
Superintendent.
   (E)   Violations meeting the criteria for significant noncompliance (SNC)
shall be addressed with an enforcement action within 30 days of the
identification of significant noncompliance.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.321 SAMPLING, MONITORING AND REPORTING BY USER.
 
Noncompliance              Violations/In Any Six-  Fine/Violation Per Day
                           Month Period
Failure to sample, or
monitor or any reporting                           VTN, or SV, or LOV
required to POTW           (1 – 2)               requiring a report within
Slug discharge(s) or batch                         10 days
discharge(s)
Failure to sample,
monitor, report            Next violation          AO, or ECS, or AF of $50
limitations and slug                               per day
discharge(s) to the POTW
Minor sampling, monitoring
or reporting deficiencies                          VTN, or SV, or LOV
(computational or                                  Corrections to be made
typographical error,       (1–3)                 submission
missing information, late                          AO if continued
reports and repeated
occurrences)
Major sampling, monitoring
or reporting deficiencies                          LOV, or SV, or AO or AF of
(missing information, late Next violation          $50 per/day
reports and repeated       * per type of violation Corrections to be made on
occurrences of                                     the next submission
computational errors)
Type of violation refers to the same violation, no matter if it occurs once,
or repeatedly in the same report
 
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.322 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE; CONSTRUCTION PHASES OF PLANNING.
 
Noncompliance        Violation Occurrences       Fine Per Violation Per Day
Reporting false      Any violation - SNC         AF of $500/occurrence
information                                      Sewer ban
                     Will not cause other late
                     interim or final dates to   LOV
Missed interim date  be missed                   LOV of $25/day
                     Will result in other missed AO
                     interim dates
Missed final date    (1) - SNC                   AF of $50/day and CS
                     Next violation              LIT and AF of $100/day
Failure to install   (1)                         AO and/or AF of $50/day
monitoring equipment
 
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.323 DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS.
Noncompliance Violations in any Six Month Period Fine Per Violation Per Day
Noncompliance            Violations in any Six      Fine Per Violation Per Day
                         Month Period
                         (1 – 3)                  SV or LOV
                          
Exceeding final limit    Next violation or exceeds  LOV and/or AO and/or AF of
(categorical or local    TRC criteria for any       $100 per day
limits or prohibited     parameter(s)
discharges)              Next violation or
                         exceeding 2 or more TRC    LOV, or CS and AF of $150
                         criteria for any parameter per day
                         (s)
                         Violation of any           AO
                         prohibited discharge (1)
                         Next violation or causes   AO and AF of $100/day and
                         POTW or environmental      LIT plus penalties and
Reported slug or batch   damages on any occurrence  costs
discharge                Violation of any
                         prohibited discharge (>3)  AO and AF of $250 per day
                         or causes POTW or          and/or LIT plus penalties
                         environmental damages on   and costs
                         any occurrence
                         (1)                        AO
                         Next violation or causes   AO and AF of $100 per day
Discharge without a      POTW or environmental      and/or LIT and penalties
permit and/or prohibited damages on any occurrence  and costs
discharge                Next violation or causes   AF of $250 per day, LIT
                         POTW or environmental      and damages; request
                         damage                     disconnect
 
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.324 NONCOMPLIANCE DETECTED THROUGH SAMPLING OR FIELD INVESTIGATIONS.
 
Noncompliance             Violations in any Six Fine Per Violation Per Day
                          Month Period
                          (2)                   LOV
Violation of analytical   Next violation        LOV and AO and/or $50 per
procedures and/or quality                       occurrence
assurance                                       AO and AF of $100 per day
                          Next violation        per occurrence or LIT plus
                                                penalties
                          (1 – 3)             VTN, SV or LOV
                                                AO or AF of $100 per day
Violation of permit       Next violation        per occurrence or LIT plus
condition(s)                                    penalties
                                                AO or AF of $150 per day
                          Next violation        per occurrence and/or LIT
                                                plus penalties
 
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
**** DIVISION 13. FEES ****
§ 51.335 FEES FOR PRETREATMENT INDUSTRIAL MONITORING.
   Flat fees for pretreatment industrial monitoring shall be as follows:
Sample, each 24-hour composite sample      $75
pH grab, each sample                       $5
Vehicle                                    $25
Ice, each 24-hour composite sample         $5
Labor, per hour, per man                   $30
Clerical, each 24-hour composite sample    $30
Analysis                                   At current independent lab price
Materials                                  Listed individually at cost
Tracing unauthorized discharges             
   Any hours over 40 except Sundays and Time and one-half
holidays
   Sundays and holidays                 Double time
These charges will be reviewed on an annual basis
 
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.336 SURCHARGES ON STRONG WASTES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
The town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all
sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the sanitary
sewage system, in such manner and by such method as the town may deem
practicable in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case,
in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central
sampling point available to the town at all times.   
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid, suspended solids in excess
of 225 milligrams per liter of fluid, phosphorous in excess of ten milligrams
per liter of fluid, ammonia in excess of 20 milligrams per liter of fluid. When
the above mentioned pollutants are exceeded and where the surcharge amount
would be less than $10, a minimum monthly surcharge of $10 will be assessed.
Additional charges for treating stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be
made on the following basis:
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.15 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 225 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD or COD.
         (a)   BOD. There shall be an additional charge of $0.05 per pound of
biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of 200 milligram per liter
of fluid.
         (b)   COD. There shall be an additional charge of $0.05 per pound of
chemical oxygen demand for COD received in excess of 500 milligrams per liter
of fluid.   
      (3)   Rate surcharge based upon phosphorous. There shall be an additional
charge of $3 per pound of phosphorous received in excess of ten milligrams per
liter of fluid.   
      (4)   Rate surcharge based upon ammonia. There shall be an additional
charge of $0.75 per pound of ammonia received in excess of 20 milligrams per
liter of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand, ammonia, COD and phosphorous contained in the waste shall be in
accordance with the latest copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as written by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation, and in conformance with Guidelines Establishing Test
Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, Regulation C.F.R. Part 136, published in
the Federal Register on October 16, 1973.
   (D)   As provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates
or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. Such rates or charges shall be paid
within 15 days of mailing of the bill.   
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.337 REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation
after the date on which this subchapter goes into effect. Such study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements to the waste
treatment systems.   
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. The studies shall be
conducted by officers of employees of the town, or by a firm of certified
public accounts, or by a firm of consulting engineers, which firms shall have
experience in such studies, or by such combination of officers, employees,
certified public accountants or engineers as the town shall determine to be
best under the circumstances.
(Ord. passed - - 2011)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, except §
51.061 of this chapter, shall be served by the town with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the forgoing provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the
town by reason of such violation.
   (D)   (1)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of §§
51.110 through
51.337, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent may petition a court
of competent jurisdiction through the Town Attorney for the issuance of a
temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the wastewater discharge permit, order, or other
requirement imposed by §§
51.110 through
51.337 on activities of the user. The Superintendent may also seek such other
action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a user.
      (2)   (a)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of §§
51.110 through
51.337, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the town for a civil
penalty of not less than $1,000 or more than $2,500 per violation, per day. In
the case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties
shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
         (b)   The town may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the town.
         (c)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall
take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to,
the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factors
as justice requires.
         (d)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
      (3)   Any person who knowingly or willfully makes any false statement,
representation or certification in any application, report or other document
required by §§
51.110 through
51.337 or other regulations adopted by the town, or who tampers with or
knowingly or willfully renders inaccurate any monitoring device so as to render
false information may be subject to I.C. 35-44-2-1. The Town’s Counsel shall,
when appropriate, refer such matters to the County Prosecutor for consideration
of criminal prosecution. The town also reserves the right to refer suspected
knowing or willful violations to the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5 for criminal
prosecution. All reports and other documents required to be submitted or
maintained pursuant to §§
51.110 through
51.337 are subject to: the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1001 relating to fraud and
false statements; provisions of Section 309(c)(4) of the Clean Water Act, as
amended, governing false statements, representations or certification; and the
provisions of Section 309(c)(6) of the Clean Water Act regarding responsible
corporate officers.
      (4)   (a)   The remedies provided for in §§
51.110 through
51.337 are not exclusive. The town may take any, all or any combination of
these actions against a non-compliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment
violations will generally be in accordance with the town’s enforcement response
plan. However, the Superintendent may take other action against any user when
the circumstances warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take
more than one enforcement action against any non-compliant user. These actions
may be taken concurrently.
         (b)   Any discharger has the right to request in writing an
interpretation or ruling by the town on any matter covered by this §§
51.110 through
51.337 and is entitled to a written reply within 45 days. In the event that
such an inquiry is by the affected discharger and deals with matters of
compliance with §§
51.110 through
51.337 or deals with the permit, receipt of the discharger’s request will delay
all enforcement proceedings, until he receives the written reply.
(1980 Code, § 14-27) (Ord. 1-1977, passed - -1977; Ord. passed - - 2011)
CHAPTER 52: TRASH AND RECYCLABLES
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Establishment of collection service
   
52.03   Services to be provided
   
52.04   Requirements for pickup
   
52.05   Limitations on trash eligible for collection
   
52.06   Fees
   
52.07   Revenues; special fund
   
52.08   Bulky item collection services
   
52.09   Recyclable collection services
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECYCLABLES. Newsprint, magazines, catalogs, aluminum beverage cans, bimetal
and ferrous cans, Category #1 (polyethyl terepthalate) plastic containers,
Category #2 (high density polyethylene) plastic containers and glass bottles
and cardboard.
   TRASH. Ordinary household waste and garbage, including putrescible and non-
putrescible solid and semi-solid items of waste, except for:
      (1)   Human and animal body waste;
      (2)   Liquids;
      (3)   Liquid or water carried wastes which are normally disposed of in
sanitary sewer systems;
      (4)   Hazardous wastes;
      (5)   Building materials;
      (6)   Appliances, furniture, household fixtures and/or any other similar
bulky items;
      (7)   Lead acid batteries; and
      (8)   Yard waste, including, but not limited to, leaves.
(Ord. 3-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 52.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF COLLECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   The Town Council shall assume the authority for the collection of
residential trash and recyclables, as defined above, and provide a trash and
recyclables collection service solely for the benefit of, and shall be used
solely by, the residents of the town. The Council shall provide the service
through the use of interlocal agreements, contracts, licensing, franchise
arrangements or any method it may deem necessary to ensure that a quality
service is provided to the town’s residents.
   (B)   Prior to awarding any contracts for trash collection under this
chapter, the town shall assure that competitive bids are obtained. Contracts
shall be re-bid periodically to assure competition for providing trash
collection services hereunder. The town reserves the right to award exclusive
franchises for trash collection services for town residents without prior
approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 3-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 52.03 SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED.
   The town, acting through the Town Council, and in cooperation with the
Southeastern Indiana Solid Waste District, Versailles, Indiana, shall provide a
curbside or roadside trash collection service to residents occupying housing
units contained in structures with four housing units per structure or less,
small businesses that use curbside service and that lie within the town.
Apartment complexes composed of multiple buildings in a common location and
mobile home courts consisting of multiple units in a common location are not
included. Such trash collection services shall be provided on a designated day
of each week. This schedule, however, is subject to change necessitated by
special circumstances, including, but not limited to, holidays, special events,
severe weather or equipment breakdown. Any changes in the above schedule will
be announced by the town, in advance if possible, through the local news media.
(Ord. 3-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 52.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR PICKUP.
   (A)   Items which are to be picked up pursuant to this trash collection
service shall be placed adjacent to the curb immediately adjacent to the
individual’s residence, within three feet of the curb or traveled portion of
the street prior to 6:00 a.m. on the date scheduled for said collection, but
not earlier than 6:00 p.m. on the date preceding the scheduled collection.
   (B)   No person shall place any trash on the property of another. No person
shall search through, alter, deform or remove any items set out for collection.
(Ord. 3-2003, passed 10-14-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 LIMITATIONS ON TRASH ELIGIBLE FOR COLLECTION.
   No person shall dispose of, for collection, any needles, syringes, lancets
or other sharp objects, unless the same are placed in a hard plastic or metal
container with a screw-on or tightly-secured lid. No person shall dispose of,
for collection, any soiled bandages, disposable sheets or medical gloves,
unless the same are placed in a securely fastened plastic bag.
(Ord. 3-2003, passed 10-14-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 FEES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the term ELIGIBLE RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
UNIT means a structure located within the town which includes a room or series
of rooms located within a building or mobile home and forming a single
habitable unit with facilities, which are used, or are intended to be used for
living, cooking, eating and sleeping, and are either:
      (1)   A SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT, defined as a dwelling
unit separated from any other dwelling unit by open space, and designed for
occupancy for one person or family;
      (2)   A MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT, defined as a building or
related group of buildings not to exceed four units located on the same lot,
tract, or parcel of real estate, with each dwelling unit being independent of
the other; or
      (3)   A CONDOMINIUM, defined as any multi-family residential unit where
the owner pays separately assessed property taxes.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed a trash collection fee as follows:
      (1)   Beginning with the first bill after the adoption of Ordinance 2025-
3 for eligible residential dwelling units payable through bills payable in
November of 2025, the imposed trash and recycling collection fee shall be
$16.75, plus $0.25 for composting;
      (2)   Beginning with the bill payable in December of 2025 through bills
payable in November of 2026, the imposed trash and recycling collection fee
shall be $17.51, plus $0.26 for composting; and
      (3)   Beginning with the bill payable in December of 2026 through bills
payable in November of 2027, the imposed trash and recycling collection fee
shall be $18.29, plus $0.27 for composting.
   (C)   The rate imposed by this section shall be in addition to the rates
charged by the town to operate its municipal sewage works and any other rates
for the collection and treatment of wastewater by the town's wastewater
utility.
   (D)   All unpaid fees imposed by this section are subject to the same
delinquency fees, penalties, and interest authorized for delinquent sewer bills
and may be collected by any lawful means including the filing of liens as
authorized by I.C. 36-9-23.
   (E)   The rates approved by this section shall be in full force and
effective for all wastewater bills due after February 19, 2025, and thereafter.
   (F)   In the event a resident will be leaving his or her residence
unoccupied by any person for a continuous period of not less than 90 days and,
as a result, shall not require pickup, such resident may notify the town and
during such period shall be entitled to an abatement of the fees normally
charged under this section. The resident must, within five days of the
reoccupancy of his or her residence, after a period of suspension of charges
under this section, notify the town of the date of reoccupancy and charges and
pickup shall resume under the normal fee and pickup schedule.
(Ord. 3-2003, passed 10-14-2003; Ord. 6-2007, passed 10-14-2003; Ord. 2017-1,
passed 2-14-2017; Ord. 2025-3, passed 1-21-2025)
§ 52.07 REVENUES; SPECIAL FUND.
   The revenue generated from the collection of service charges from trash
collection as provided for above shall be deposited in a separate fund and
account from any other fund established and funded by tax monies, expenditures
from which shall be limited to costs associated with the collection and
disposal of said trash and the purchase of equipment necessary to provide such
services to the residents and citizens of the community.
(Ord. 3-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 52.08 BULKY ITEM COLLECTION SERVICES.
   All normal, large household items such as furniture, stoves, water heaters
and other appliances will be acceptable for this collection. Refrigerators, air
conditioners or other items which normally contain CFCs (Freon) will not be
collected unless documentation is provided that the CFCs have been properly
removed. No hazardous materials, lead acid batteries, tires or any other items
prohibited by federal, state, county or local laws or regulations will be
accepted. Bulky items, excluded from the definition of trash, will be collected
four times a year on dates scheduled by the Town Council.
(Ord. 3-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 52.09 RECYCLABLE COLLECTION SERVICES.
   As part of the services provided by the town, recyclable items including
newsprint, aluminum beverage cans, bi-metal and ferrous cans, Category #1
(polyethyl terepthalate) plastic containers, Category #2 (high density
polyethylene) plastic containers, magazines, catalogs, cardboard and glass
bottles shall be collected twice monthly on days to be designated by the Town
Council. Recyclables need not be separated. A recycling bin will be provided.
Recyclable items shall contain no free flowing liquids, but need not be free of
labels. Recyclable beverage containers shall have cap and neck rings removed.
(Ord. 3-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a municipal ordinance violation, punishable by
a municipal fine up to $100 for the first offense, up to $500 for a second
offense occurring during the same calendar year and $1,000 for each subsequent
offense occurring during the same calendar year.
   (B)   In addition to the fines imposed by division (A) above for the
violation of any provision of this chapter, the householder shall also be
liable to the town for all damages and expenses incurred by the town by reason
of such violation in a civil action brought for such purpose.
(Ord. 3-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
      
71.   RECREATIONAL OFF-ROAD VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Scope
   
70.002   Authority
   
70.003   Definitions
   
70.004   Compliance
   
70.005   Roller skates, skate boards, toy vehicles and the like; driving in
park
Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
70.020   Failure to leave adequate space
   
70.021   Passenger zones; loading/unloading zones
   
70.022   Taxicabs; taxicab stands
   
70.023   Method of parking
   
70.024   Display for sale; advertising; washing, greasing or repairing
   
70.025   Parking in certain areas; movement of vehicle into prohibited location
   
70.026   Parking of restricted vehicles
   
70.027   Reserved
   
70.028   Hazardous or congested places
   
70.029   Towing and impounding vehicles
Metered Parking
   
70.040   Parking within lines or markings required
   
70.041   Instructions and indications of meters
   
70.042   Parking in parallel parking spaces
   
70.043   Operation of meters; limitations of use of space
   
70.044   Overtime parking
   
70.045   Parking beyond permitted time period
   
70.046   Defacing or destroying maters
   
70.047   Use of slugs and the like
   
70.048   Reports of police to Council; notice of violations; payment of fines
   
70.049   Purpose of fees
   
70.050   Removal of vehicles parked in excess of 24 hours
   
70.051   Towing and impoundment of vehicles with five or more violations
Vehicle Operation
   
70.065   Quiet zones
   
70.066   Play streets
   
70.067   Speed limits
   
70.068   Driving on sidewalks
   
70.069   Backing
   
70.070   Turning in streets
 
   
70.999   Penalty
*** GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
§ 70.001 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern and regulate the use, standing
or parking upon streets and sidewalks; as to motor vehicles generally and to
noises generally as to streets and sidewalks.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 70.002 AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council shall place and maintain traffic-control, parking signs,
signals and devices when, and as required under this chapter and other traffic
ordinances of the town, to make effective such provisions, and may place and
maintain such additional traffic-control devices as it may deem necessary to
regulate traffic under this chapter, other traffic ordinances of the town or
under state law or to guide or warn traffic.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 70.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
      STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
      STOP. When required, complete cessation of movement. When prohibited, any
stopping of a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer, traffic
officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
   (B)   Whenever any words and phrases used herein are not defined in any
section of this code or other ordinances of the town, but are defined in the
state’s vehicle laws, such definitions shall be deemed to apply to such words
and phrases used herein.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 70.004 COMPLIANCE.
   It is unlawful for a person to do any act forbidden by this chapter or to
fail to perform any act required in this chapter and said person shall be
subject to the penalty provisions of the Indiana Code and/or this chapter
including, but not necessarily limited to, §
70.999.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 2024-4, passed 3-4-2024)
§ 70.005 ROLLER SKATES, SKATE BOARDS, TOY VEHICLES AND THE LIKE; DRIVING IN
PARK.
   (A)   No person upon roller skates, a skate board or riding in or by means
of any coaster, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except
while crossing a street or sidewalk, except upon streets set aside as play
streets.
   (B)   No two- or three-wheel motorized vehicles, nor any motorized bicycles,
nor any four-wheel unlicensed motorized vehicles shall be operated in the
Brookville Community Park.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 10-22-1985; Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
*** STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING ***
§ 70.020 FAILURE TO LEAVE ADEQUATE SPACE.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other than an
alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less
than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic; except that, a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading
or unloading of passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic
regulations or traffic signs, signals or a police officer. No person shall park
a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave
available less than eight feet of width of the roadway for the free movement of
vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.021 PASSENGER ZONES; LOADING/UNLOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stand, stop or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any
place marked as a passenger zone during hours when the regulations applicable
to such passenger zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed
three minutes. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than the expeditious unloading and delivery or picking up
and loading of materials in any place marked as a loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to loading zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.022 TAXICABS; TAXICAB STANDS.
   The driver of a taxicab shall not stand or park upon any street in the
business district at any place other than a taxicab stand; except that, this
provision shall not prevent the driver of such vehicle from temporarily
stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations at any place
for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading
passengers. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, other than a
taxicab, in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been officially
designated and appropriately signed; except that, the driver of a passenger
vehicle may temporarily stop therein for a purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading and unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.023 METHOD OF PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of traffic, and with the
curb-side wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the edge of the roadway;
except that, upon those streets which have been marked or signed for angle
parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such
marks or signs. No vehicle shall be parked in a business district, where
parking is flat to the curb, where such vehicle will not fit into the marked
parking space for one vehicle; and where angle parking is designated, no
vehicle shall be parked in a parking space so marked that is longer than the
average passenger vehicle, unless such parking be only for the purpose of
loading or unloading of passengers or cargo.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.024 DISPLAY FOR SALE; ADVERTISING; WASHING, GREASING OR REPAIRING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street or roadway for the
principal purpose of displaying it for sale or for advertising or promoting any
type of business, or for washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except
repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.025 PARKING IN CERTAIN AREAS; MOVEMENT OF VEHICLE INTO PROHIBITED
LOCATION.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   A sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a private drive;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within three feet of a crosswalk or an intersection;
      (7)   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (8)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street; and
      (9)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by such person into any such
prohibited area or away from the curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.026 PARKING OF RESTRICTED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to educate the public and
promote public health and welfare relating to the parking of restricted
vehicles on the street within the incorporated limits of the town.
   (B)   Definitions. 
      (1)   When used in this section, the following words, terms and phrases,
and their derivations shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words
used in the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is
always mandatory and not merely discretionary.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         RESTRICTED VEHICLES. Any of the following; includes but not limited
to:
            1,   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES. Semis/ Semi-trailers, buses, wreckers,
box trucks/ vans, mobile homes, stretch limos, tree removal trucks/ chippers.
            2.   FARM EQUIPMENT. Tractors, combines, and agricultural wagons.
            3.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES/ITEMS. Boats, jet skis, all-terrain
vehicles, campers, (motorized or not) golf carts, race/demolition-cars, play
equipment.
            4.   CONSTRUCTION AND OTHER EQUIPMENT. Backhoes, air compressors,
dump trucks, bucket lifts, hauling trailers of all sizes.
   (C)   Prohibited parking. No person shall park any restricted vehicle on any
street in the incorporated limits of the town except in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   While in performance of official duties such as loading or
unloading, tree trimming/chipping trees, permitted construction work.
      (2)   While in performance of the above-mentioned duties restricted
vehicles must be kept in front of property boundaries in which said duties are
being performed unless permission is granted from abutting land owners.
      (3)   Penalty. If after a verbal warning said owner does not remove the
restricted vehicle within three days then a written warning will be given to
remove the vehicle with an additional three days notice. If the restricted
vehicle is not removed then the owner will be fined in accordance with §
70.999.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 70.027 RESERVED.
§ 70.028 HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When signs are erected upon approach to hazardous or congested places, no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.029 TOWING AND IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES.
   In all violations of any section of this subchapter wherein unlawful parking
is involved, the vehicle may be removed or towed away at the expense of the
owner or operator of such vehicle; and shall remain impounded until all fines
and costs, including towing expenses shall have been paid in full.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009)
*** METERED PARKING ***
§ 70.040 PARKING WITHIN LINES OR MARKINGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each vehicle being parked adjacent to a parking meter shall be parked
within the lines or markings painted or placed on the curb and or upon the
street adjacent to each parking meter for the purpose of designating the
parking space for which said meter is to be used.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across any such line or
marking or to park such vehicle is such position that the same shall not be
entirely within the area so designed by such lines or markings.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.041 INSTRUCTIONS AND INDICATIONS OF METERS.
   Parking meters in metered parking zones have been set in such a manner as to
show or display by a signal that the parking space adjacent to such meter is or
is not legally in use. Each parking meter indicates by a proper legend the
legal parking time heretofore established by the town and, when operated as
indicated, the duration of the period of legal parking and, on the expiration
of such period, illegal or over parking.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 70.042 PARKING IN PARALLEL PARKING SPACES.
   When a parking space in any parking meter zone is parallel with adjacent
curb or sidewalk, any vehicle parked in such parking space shall be parked with
the foremost part of such vehicle nearest to such meter.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.043 OPERATION OF METERS; LIMITATIONS OF USE OF SPACE.
   (A)   (1)   When a vehicle is parked in any space, adjacent to which a
parking meter is located in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter,
the operator of such vehicle shall, upon entering such parking space,
immediately deposit or cause to be deposited a $0.25 coin in such parking meter
and put such meter in operation.
      (2)   Failure to deposit such coin and put the meter in operation shall
constitute a violation of this subchapter and shall subject such person to
penalty prescribed in this code.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the deposit of such coin and placing the meter in
operation, the parking space may be lawfully occupied by such vehicle during
the period of parking time which has been prescribed for the part of the street
in which such parking space is located.
      (2)   If such vehicle shall remain parked in any such parking space
beyond the parking time limit fixed for such parking space and the parking
meter indicates, by its dial and pointer, such illegal parking, such vehicle
shall be considered as parked overtime and beyond the period of legal parking
time.
   (C)   The parking of a vehicle overtime or beyond the period of legal
parking time in any such part of a street where any such meter is located shall
be a violation of this subchapter and punished as herein after set out.
   (D)   Commercial trucks may park in such parking zone for the period not
exceeding 30 minutes, to load or unload merchandise without depositing such
coins. Should any truck or delivery car be parked longer than 30 minutes, the
violator will be given a ticket and classed as a violator and the regular
penalty will be imposed.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.044 OVERTIME PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, permit or suffer any
vehicle registered in the name of or operated by such person to be parked
overtime or beyond the period of legal parking time established for any parking
meter zone as herein prescribed.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.045 PARKING BEYOND PERMITTED TIME PERIOD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any vehicle to remain or to be
placed in any parking space adjacent to any parking meter while such meter is
displayed a signal indicating that the vehicle occupying such parking space has
already been parked beyond the period of time prescribed for such parking
space.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.046 DEFACING OR DESTROYING METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, tamper with, open,
willfully break, destroy or impair the usefulness of any parking meter.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.047 USE OF SLUGS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking
meter in town any slug or slugs, device or metallic substance or any substitute
for the coins herein above required.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.048 REPORTS OF POLICE TO COUNCIL; NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS; PAYMENT OF FINES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the town, acting in
accordance with instructions issued by the Town Board, to report:
      (1)   The number of each parking meter which indicates that the vehicle
occupying the parking space adjacent to such parking meter is or has been
parking in violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter;
      (2)   The state license number of such vehicle;
      (3)   The time during which such vehicle is parking in violation of any
of the provisions of this subchapter;
      (4)   Any other facts, or knowledge of which is necessary to a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending such violation.
   (B)   (1)   Each such police officer shall also attach to such vehicle a
notice to the owner or operator thereof that such vehicle has been parked in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Each such owner or operator shall within 30 days of the time when
such notice was attached to such vehicle, pay to the Brookville Police
Department, place in a fine-drop box attached to the front of the Brookville
Police Department, or mailing payment to the Brookville Police Department at
634 Main Street, Brookville, Indiana 47012, for the purpose of such collection
as a penalty for and in full satisfaction of such violation, the sum of $20.
      (3)   If penalty is paid within ten days from the date of citation, the
penalty is reduced to $10. After ten days and up to 30 days the penalty is $20.
After 30 days the fine is doubled to $40.
      (4)   Fines for parking violations other than parking meters:
         (a)   Blocking an alley: $20.
         (b)   Yellow curb: $20.
         (c)   Fire Hydrant: $20.
         (d)   Improper parking: $20.
         (e)   Handicap Zone: $25.
      (5)   The failure of such owner or operator to make such payment shall
render such owner or operator subject to the penalties hereinafter provided for
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter and will be collected in
any manner authorized by law.
      (6)   Appeals process. If you believe your citation was issued in error,
you may appeal, in writing, to the Town Clerk within ten days from the date
citation was issued. An appeals form can be obtained at the Municipal Building
at 1020 Franklin Ave., Brookville, Indiana 47012 or the form may also be
printed off the website and sent to the address above. Website:
www.brookvilleindiana.org.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 2018-1, passed 5-9-2018; Ord. 2021-12,
passed 5-25-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.049 PURPOSE OF FEES.
   The specified coins required to be deposited in parking meters as provided
herein are hereby levied and assessed as fees:
   (A)   To provide for the proper regulation and control of traffic upon the
public streets;
   (B)   To provide for the cost of supervision and regulation of the parking
of vehicles in parking meter zones; and
   (C)   To cover the cost of operation, maintenance, supervision, regulation
and control of the parking meters described herein.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 2021-12, passed 5-25-2021)
§ 70.050 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES PARKED IN EXCESS OF 24 HOURS.
   Any vehicle that is parked at a meter for 24 hours continuously may be
removed or towed away at the expense of the owner or operator of such vehicle,
and shall remain impounded until all fines and costs, including towing
expenses, shall have been paid in full.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 70.051 TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES WITH FIVE OR MORE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any vehicle that is parked in violation of any section or provision of
this subchapter may be removed or towed away at the expense of the owner or
operator of such vehicle when it has five or more outstanding unpaid
violations.
   (B)   Such vehicle shall remain impounded until all fines and costs,
including towing expenses, shall have been paid in full.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 2021-12, passed 5-25-2021)
*** VEHICLE OPERATION ***
§ 70.065 QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle, except in an emergency.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.066 PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon such street or portion
thereof, except persons having business or whose residences are within such
closed areas. Any person driving on such streets shall exercise the greatest
care.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.067 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street or roadway of the town at
a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then
existing.
   (B)   Where no special hazard exists, the following speeds shall be lawful,
but any speed in excess of such limits shall be prima facie evidence that the
speed is not reasonable or prudent and is unlawful:
      (1)   Twenty mph in any business district; and
      (2)   Twenty-five mph in any residence district.
   (C)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing prima
facie limits shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decease speed when
special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason
of weather or highway conditions; and speed shall be decreased as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other conveyance on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.068 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except at
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.069 BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into an intersection or over
a crosswalk and shall not, in any event or any place, back a vehicle unless
such movement can be made in safety.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.070 TURNING IN STREETS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district, and shall not,
upon any other street outside of a business district, so turn a vehicle unless
such movement can be made in safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.005(B) shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed
$100, together with court costs.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
70.040 through
70.051 and any person who aids, abets, or assists therein shall be prosecuted
as provided in §
70.048(B).
   (D)   Any person found to be in violation of any schedule found in
Chapter 72 shall be penalized as follows:
      (1)   Any person found to be in violation of any schedule found in
Chapter 72 shall be issued a written warning by the Police Department for their
first violation of said schedule.
      (2)   A second violation of any schedule found in
Chapter 72 in a 12-month period shall be a Class D infraction and the person
shall be issued an ordinance violation ticket by the Police Department
punishable by a fine of up to $25.
      (3)   A third and any subsequent violations of any schedule found in
Chapter 72 in a 12-month period shall be a Class C infraction and the person
shall be issued an ordinance violation ticket by the Police Department
punishable by a fine of up to $500.
   (E)   In addition to the foregoing penalties, any person found to be in
violation of any section of
Chapter 70 and/or
Chapter 72 shall be subject to the towing and impoundment provisions found in §
70.029.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 2024-4, passed 3-4-2024)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
AND GOLF CARTS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   General regulations
   
71.02   Inspection of recreational off-road vehicles
Golf Carts
   
71.15   Purpose
   
71.16   Definitions
   
71.17   Rules and regulations generally
   
71.18   Inspections and fees
   
71.19   Enforcement
 
   
71.99   Penalty
*** GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
§ 71.01 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Subject to the regulations contained in this chapter, only
recreational off-road vehicles as defined by I.C. 14-8-2-233.5 are hereby
allowed on the streets of the Town of Brookville subject to the conditions set
forth in this chapter. More specifically, neither golf carts nor all-terrain
vehicles, as defined by I.C. 14-8-2-5.7, are permitted by this chapter.
   (B)   Recreational off-road vehicles must have proof of a valid liability
insurance covering the vehicle in an amount greater to or equal to the Indiana
state automotive insurance minimums as set forth in I.C. 9-25-4-5 when operated
on Town of Brookville streets.
   (C)   In order to qualify under this chapter, a recreational off-road
vehicle must have a rollover protection system installed. Furthermore, the
recreational off-road vehicle must be equipped with seatbelts for each
passenger including the driver.
   (D)   Recreational off-road vehicle operators on Town of Brookville streets
must be at least 16 years of age or older and hold a valid driver's license.
   (E)   No passengers are permitted on single seat recreational off-road
vehicles on town streets. All other vehicles subject to this chapter are
limited to the number of passenger seats on the vehicle.
   (F)   Recreational off-road vehicles must have at least one operating brake
light when in operation on town streets.
   (G)   No recreational off-road vehicles are permitted on town roadways from
sunset to sunrise unless they have functioning efficient lights as per state
law.
   (H)   Recreational off-road vehicles must travel single file on town
streets.
   (I)   Failure to abide by any of the above conditions when recreational off-
road vehicles are in use on town streets and roadways shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (J)   Recreational off-road vehicles shall not be operated on private
property without the permission and consent of the property owner.
   (K)   Recreational off-road vehicles may not operate on streets or highways
under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation. Recreational
off-road vehicles may cross these streets or highways to access other streets
at intersections only. Crossing must be made at a right angle. Residents
traveling from areas only connected by a state highway may travel along these
highways to access the nearest street. The specific streets and highways
referenced include Fourth Street or State Road 252, Main Street or U.S. Highway
52 and State Road 101.
   (L)   Recreational off-road vehicles may be operated on Mill Street and
Fairfield Avenue except for the stretch of roadway between the intersections of
9th and 10th Street (Ball Park Hill). Traveling in the roadway between these
intersections will constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (M)   Recreation off-road vehicles may not operation sidewalks.
   (N)   Recreational off-road vehicles shall not be operated on town streets
and roadways with overhanging cargo. Any items in the loading areas of the
recreational off-road vehicle extending more than one foot from the vehicle
shall be marked with an orange or red caution flag.
   (O)   Operators of recreational off-road vehicles are required to remove a
wrecked or damaged recreational off-road vehicle and any and all glass or other
foreign material dropped onto a roadway in the event of an accident.
(Ord. 2020-15, passed 10-13-2020; Ord. 2021-16, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 71.02 INSPECTION OF RECREATIONAL OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   The inspection by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, will cover
the following safety requirements and every recreational off-road vehicle
operating on town streets must have the following safety equipment:
   (A)   Permits/stickers issued to operators/owners of recreational off-road
vehicles by the town Police Department;
   (B)   Each owner must have proof of ownership, and liability insurance and a
completed hold harmless agreement releasing the town, its employees and
affiliates from all liability that may arise as a result of operating a
recreational off-road vehicle inside the town. A current hold harmless
agreement must be on file with the town Police Department, and must be renewed
annually;
   (C)   All recreational off-road vehicles must meet the requirements or
minimum standards of safety equipment as set forth in this chapter;
   (D)   All recreational off-road vehicles operators must present a valid
driver's license;
   (E)   Permits/stickers will be issued annually and are valid from the date
issued until the same time the following year and displayed on the windshield
of the recreational off-road vehicle:
      (1)   Registration and inspection by Police Department:
         (a)   Incorporated Town of Brookville residents: $50 annually
(includes permit/sticker); and
         (b)   Non-residents of the town: $75 annually (includes permit/
sticker).
      (2)   Re-inspection by Police Department: $25 (if a recreational off-road
vehicle fails the initial inspection).
   (F)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner. A
police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/sticker.
The Chief of Police will have the discretion in determining whether a permit/
sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found on a
previous application, or the receipt of a permit/sticker, the Chief of Police
may direct the applicant to reapply, and also resubmit any and all fees
necessary, before a replacement permit/sticker is issued;
   (G)   Any person who operates a recreational off-road vehicle in the town
and fails to obtain and properly display a town or police permit/sticker on the
left lower side of the windshield will be subject to all applicable state laws,
in addition to being in violation of this chapter; and
   (H)   Recreational off-road vehicle owners must complete the registration
form attached to Ordinance 1-2010, hold harmless agreement form and provide a
copy of the proof of liability insurance prior to the recreational off-road
vehicle being inspected. The completed forms and proof of insurance will be on
file and maintained by the town Police Department.
(Ord. 2020-15, passed 10-13-2020; Ord. 2021-16, passed 7-27-2021)
*** GOLF CARTS ***
§ 71.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to establish a golf cart ordinance
within the town to promote the health, safety and welfare of persons operating
cart(s) within the town.
(Ord. 1-2010, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 71.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license issued to operate a motor vehicle issued
by Indiana or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highway in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 25 mph. ATVs are not permitted.
   OPERATOR. Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a driver’s license
may operate a golf cart.
(Ord. 1-2010, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 71.17 RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Carts may be driven on roads only if equipped with two operating
headlights (one on each side of the front of the golf cart) and two operating
taillights with brake lights (one on each side of the rear of the cart), which
are visible from a distance of 500 feet, turn signals front and rear,
windshield and seat belts. No one under two years of age shall be permitted to
ride in the golf cart. The driver and all passengers must wear seat belts.
   (B)   Carts must be equipped with a rear vision mirror and either a slow-
moving vehicle emblem or a flashing red or amber light to the rear.
   (C)   Cart drivers must have a valid driver’s license in their name.
   (D)   Cart drivers will stay to the far right of the traveled portion of the
road and yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles.
   (E)   (1)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the
number of persons for whom individual seating is installed and provided on the
golf cart.
      (2)   The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and
no part of the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is in motion.
   (F)   All applicable state laws shall be adhered to, including the
possession and use of alcoholic beverages.
   (G)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and town which governs the operation of motor
vehicles.
   (H)   Carts will adhere to all traffic flow patterns and will operate on the
right side of the roadway.
   (I)   Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks. Golf carts may be
operated on Mill Street and Fairfield Avenue, except for the stretch of roadway
between the intersections of 9th and 10th Street (Ball Park Hill). Traveling in
the roadway between these intersections will constitute a violation of this
section.
   (J)   Carts shall not be operated on private property without the permission
and consent of the property owner.
   (K)   Motorized carts may not operate on streets or highways under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation. Motorized carts may
cross these streets or highway to access other streets at intersections only.
Crossing must be made at a right angle. The specific streets and highways
referenced include Fourth Street or State Road 252, Main Street or U.S. Highway
52 and State Road 101.
   (L)   Operators of carts are required to remove a wrecked or damaged golf
cart and any and all glass or other foreign material dropped onto a roadway in
the event of an accident.
(Ord. 1-2010, passed 1-26-2010; Ord. 2021-17, passed 7-27-2021) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 INSPECTIONS AND FEES.
   The inspection by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, will cover
the following safety requirements and every cart operating on town streets must
have the following safety equipment.
   (A)   Permits/stickers issued to operators/owners of golf carts by the town
Police Department.
   (B)   Each owner must have proof of ownership, liability insurance and a
completed hold harmless agreement, releasing the town, its employees and
affiliates from all liability that may arise as a result of operating a cart
inside the town. A current hold harmless agreement must be on file with the
town Police Department, and must be renewed annually.
   (C)   All carts must meet the requirements or minimum standards of safety
equipment as set forth in § 71.03 of this chapter.
   (D)   All cart operators must present a valid driver’s license.
   (E)   Permits/stickers will be issued annually and are valid from the date
issued until the same time the following year and displayed on the windshield
of the golf cart:
      (1)   Registration and inspection by Police Department:
         (a)   Residents: $50 annually (includes permit/sticker); and
         (b)   Non-residents: $75 annually (includes permit/sticker).
      (2)   Re-inspection by Police Department: $25 (if a cart fails the
initial inspection).
   (F)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner. A
police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/sticker.
The Chief of Police will have the discretion in determining whether a permit/
sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of a
previous application, or the receipt of a permit/sticker, the Chief of Police
may direct the applicant to reapply, and also resubmit any and all fees
necessary, before a replacement permit/sticker is issued.
   (G)   Any person who operates a cart in the town and fails to receive and
properly display a town or police permit/sticker on the left lower side of the
windshield will be subject to all applicable state laws, in addition to being
in violation of this chapter.
   (H)   Cart owners must complete the registration form attached to Ordinance
1-2010, hold harmless agreement form and provide a copy of the proof of
liability insurance prior to the cart being inspected. The completed forms and
proof of insurance will be maintained by the town Police Department.
(Ord. 1-2010, passed 1-26-2010; Ord. 2020-16, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town Police Department to issue a uniform
citation against any person the officer has probable cause to believe has
violated this chapter, whether the offending person is a juvenile or any other
person.
(Ord. 1-2010, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fines and penalties for violations of this chapter.
      (1)   First violation: $50.
      (2)   Second violation: $100 and a 60 day suspension from using
recreational off-road vehicles on town streets.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations: $250 and a lifetime suspension
from using recreational off-road vehicles on town streets.
      (4)   The violation of a lifetime suspension shall result in a $500 fine
for each offense.
      (5)   Fines may be paid through the Town of Brookville Clerk-Treasurer or
may be contested to the Town of Brookville Chief of Police and Town
Administrator and if requested may be heard by the Town Council.
      (6)   All fines shall be deposited in the Town of Brookville General
Fund.
   (B)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be conducted pursuant to I.C. 34-28-
5.
(Ord. 2020-15, passed 10-13-2020; Ord. 2020-16, passed 10-13-2020; Ord. 2021-
16, passed 7-27-2021)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
   
72.01   Scope, authority, and violation
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking areas
   
II.   Time restricted parking
§ 72.01 SCOPE, AUTHORITY, AND VIOLATION.
   (A)   The following parking schedules shall apply within the town as
indicated in each parking schedule. Violations of these parking schedules are
subject to, but are not necessarily limited to, the penalties described in §
70.999(D).
   (B)   Parking schedules may be modified by the Town Council, on a temporary
basis, by the adoption of a resolution by the Town Council making such
modification and the length of time for said modification. Violations of any
temporarily modified parking schedule are subject to, but are not necessarily
limited to, the penalties described in §
70.999(D).
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 6-17-2024)
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING AREAS.
   When signs prohibiting parking are erected on any streets, no person shall
park a vehicle in any such designated place. When signs are erected indicating
no parking upon that side of the street, no person shall park a vehicle in any
such designated place. Violations of this schedule shall be subject to the
penalties outlined in §
70.999(D) of this code. The streets and alleys hereinafter described, when
properly marked and posted with appropriate signs, shall hereafter be no
parking areas, and no person shall, at any time, park a vehicle upon any of the
following described streets or alleys or parts thereof.
Street Side(s) Location
Street            Side(s) Location
Cliff Street      East    Between Tenth and Eleventh Street
                  East    From Eleventh Street north approximately 150 feet to
                          Connersville Avenue
                  East    Approximately 100 feet south of the intersection of
                          Main and Eleventh Streets
                  East    From the intersection of Fifth and Main Streets south
                          approximately 85 feet
                  West    From the intersection of Fifth and Main Street north
                          approximately 80 feet
Main Street       West    From the intersection of Seventh and Main Streets
                          north approximately 70 feet
                          From the mail box north between Tenth and Eleventh
                  West    Streets, a distance of approximately 40 feet north
                          from the mail box
                  West    From the intersection of Eleventh and Main Streets
                          south approximately 133 feet
                  West    From the intersection of Eleventh and Main Streets
                          north approximately 150 feet
West Ninth Street South   Between Cliff Street and Main Street between the
                          hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
 
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 2024-4, passed 3-4-2024) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE II. TIME RESTRICTED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes time restricted parking areas in
the town on the following streets, which may be amended from time to time by
the Town Council:
 
Two-Hour Parking Limit Areas
Street            Location                      Special Provisions
Main Street       Between Third Street and       
                  Eighth Street, both inclusive
Fifth Street      Between Main Street and       Excluding parking spaces
                  Progress Street               adjacent to Valley House Flats
                  From Fifth Street to an
Court Street      unnamed alleyway located       
                  between 412 and 416 Court
                  Street
East Sixth Street From Main Street to 124 East   
                  Sixth Street
Various           All municipal parking lots     
 
   (B)   Violations of this schedule shall be subject to the penalties outlined
in §
70.999(D).
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 3-4-2024; Ord. 2024-21, passed 12-2-2024)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
93.   ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL
      
94.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
90.01   Construction, maintenance and the like of sidewalks, curbs and gutters;
owner to be responsible
   
90.02   Responsibility of owner, occupant and the like of properties to keep
sidewalks free of snow, ice, dirt or other obstruction
   
90.03   Obstructions
   
90.04   Garbage, filth and the like prohibited on streets, sidewalks and alleys
   
90.05   Local Road and Street Account
   
90.06   ADA transition plan for public rights-of-way adopted
   
90.07   Street parade request procedure
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Powers and authority of town relative to streets, sidewalks, roads and
traffic generally, see I.C. 9-21-1-2 et seq.
   Streets generally, see I.C. 8-23-4-1 et seq.
§ 90.01 CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND THE LIKE OF SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS;
OWNER TO BE RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   The owner of every lot or parcel of ground within the town shall be
solely responsible for the construction, maintenance and repair of the
sidewalks, curbs and gutters abutting such lot or parcel of ground, whether
such sidewalk, curb or gutter are already constructed or are hereafter
constructed.
   (B)   In the event of any injury or damage caused by reason of the
negligence of such property owner in the keeping and maintaining of such
sidewalk, curb and gutter in proper maintenance and repair, such injury or
damage shall be the sole liability of such abutting property owner.
   (C)   All sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be constructed, maintained and
repaired in accordance with the laws of the state.
(1980 Code, § 13-1) (Ord. 2-1970, passed - -; Ord. 3-1970, passed - -)
§ 90.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT AND THE LIKE OF PROPERTIES TO KEEP
SIDEWALKS FREE OF SNOW, ICE, DIRT OR OTHER OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of any house or other building, and the owner
or proprietor, lessee or persons entitled to possession of any vacant lot, and
every person having charge of any church, jail, public hall or other public
building in the town shall, during the winter season and during the time snow
or freezing rain shall continue on the ground, by 9:00 a.m. on each and every
day, clean the sidewalk in front of such house or building and in front of such
lot, from snow or ice, keeping it conveniently free thereof during the day.
   (B)   Every such person shall, at all times, keep the sidewalk abutting such
property clean from all dirt or filth or other obstruction or encumbrance, so
as to allow citizens to use such sidewalk in an easy and commodious manner.
(1980 Code, § 13-2) (Ord. 4-1970, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, suffer to be placed or permit
any boxes containing merchandise of any kind and description of property
whatever to be placed in or upon any of the streets, sidewalks or alleys of the
town and allow them to remain in or on such streets, sidewalks or alleys for
any greater length of time than with due diligence they may be removed for the
purposes for which they are to be used; except that, this section shall not
apply to the construction and repair of buildings.
(1980 Code, § 13-3) (Ord. passed 5-26-1903) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 GARBAGE, FILTH AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND
ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed or dumped
any and all garbage, filth or other nauseous or deleterious substances in or on
the streets, sidewalks and alleys of the town.
(1980 Code, § 13-4) (Ord. passed 5-26-1903) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 LOCAL ROAD AND STREET ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a special fund to be known as the Local Road
and Street Account into which the gasoline taxes allocated to the town by
reason of I.C. 8-14-2-1(b) shall be deposited. Such account shall be a
cumulative fund and all of the moneys deposited into such fund shall be
appropriated and used solely for local road and street improvements as
hereinafter defined, and none of such moneys shall revert to the General Fund
or be used for any purpose other than local road and street improvements.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be the intent of the town that the moneys
deposited in the Local Road and Street Account shall be used exclusively for
engineering, land acquisition and construction on any road or street within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(1980 Code, § 13-5) (Ord. 3-1973, passed - -)
§ 90.06 ADA TRANSITION PLAN FOR PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY ADOPTED.
   The Americans with Disabilities Act’s, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
transition plan for public rights-of-way is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Res. 8-2012, passed - -2012)
§ 90.07 STREET PARADE REQUEST PROCEDURE.
   The following procedures should be followed for any street parade request:
   (A)   Contact the Brookville Police Department Chief of Police at least 20
days prior to date of requested street parade for notification and approval;
   (B)   Present a detailed description of the proposed street parade request,
including organizer's contact information, purpose of street parade, and
proposed date/time;
   (C)   Present a simple diagram indicating the start/end of proposed street
parade request so Brookville Chief of Police may coordinate with Town
Departments and other local/county agencies; and
   (D)   Upon approval, organizer shall sign an indemnification clause agreeing
to defend and hold the Town of Brookville, its officers, agents, employees and
volunteers harmless from any claims, liabilities, losses or expenses arising
from said street parade.
(Res. 2020-4, passed 8-25-2020)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any owner, occupant or other person violating the provisions of §
90.02 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1980 Code, § 13-2) (Ord. 4-1970, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Chapter supplemental to other provisions relating to nuisances
   
91.02   Nuisances prohibited within town
   
91.03   Certain nuisances enumerated; enumeration not exclusive
   
91.04   Responsibility of property owners, occupants and others
Nuisance Abatement
   
91.15   Inspections, investigations and complaints
   
91.16   Right to enter private premises; duty of occupants
   
91.17   Notice to cease and desist when activity constitutes nuisance
   
91.18   Notice to abate condition constituting nuisance; appeal
   
91.19   Recourse of town when notice to abate nuisance ignored
   
91.20   Subchapter not to prohibit arrest for committing or maintaining
nuisance
Weeds
   
91.40   Short title
   
91.41   Jurisdiction
   
91.42   Definitions; exclusions
   
91.43   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
91.44   Filing complaint
   
91.45   Notice of violations
   
91.46   Appeals
   
91.47   Abatement by town
   
91.48   Liability
*** GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
§ 91.01 CHAPTER SUPPLEMENTAL TO OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO NUISANCES.
   (A)   Various nuisances are defined and prohibited in other chapters of this
code, and it is the intent of the Council in enacting this chapter to make it
supplemental to those other chapters in which nuisances are defined and
prohibited.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter relating to the abatement of nuisances
shall be regarded as alternative methods and procedures for the abatement of
nuisances in those instances where other methods and procedures for abatement
are provided.
(1980 Code, § 10-1)
§ 91.02 NUISANCES PROHIBITED WITHIN TOWN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, harbor, commit or maintain, or
to suffer to be caused, harbored, committed or maintained, any nuisance as
defined by the statute or common law of the state or as defined by this code or
other ordinance of the town at any place within the town.
(1980 Code, § 10-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 CERTAIN NUISANCES ENUMERATED; ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The following acts, when committed, or conditions when existing,
within the city are hereby defined and declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   An act done or committed or aided or assisted to be done or
committed by any person, or any substance, being or thing kept, maintained,
placed or found in or upon any public or private place, which is injurious or
dangerous to the public health or safety;
      (2)   All buildings, bridges or other structures, of whatever character,
kept or maintained or which are permitted by any person owning or having
control thereof to be kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous,
unhealthy, injurious or annoying to the public;
      (3)   All trees and other appendages of or to realty kept or maintained
or which are permitted by any person owning or having control thereof to be
kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous, unhealthy, injurious or
annoying to the public;
      (4)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water, and all foul or dirty water
or liquid when discharged through any drain, pipe or spout, or thrown into or
upon any street, public place or lot to the injury or annoyance of the public;
      (5)   All obstructions caused or permitted on any street or sidewalk to
the danger or annoyance of the public, and all stones, rubbish, dirt, filth,
slops, vegetable matter or other articles thrown or placed by any person on or
in any street, sidewalk or other public place, which in any way may cause any
injury or annoyance to the public;
      (6)   All sidewalks, gutters or curbstones permitted to remain in an
unsafe condition or out of repair;
      (7)   All stables, cattle yards, hog, sheep or cow pens or yards or
structures for poultry, permitted by the owner thereof or the person
responsible therefor to be harboring or breeding places for rodents or
otherwise to be in such a condition as to become offensive, annoying or
injurious to the public or to persons in the neighborhood thereof;
      (8)   All houses or buildings used for special storage of powder,
dynamite or other explosive substances, except those maintained pursuant to a
permit issued by competent authority; and
      (9)   All septic tanks, privies, cesspools and privy vaults of a type
prohibited by state law or by rules and regulations promulgated by authority of
state law, or which are maintained in any manner contrary to state law or rules
and regulations promulgated by authority of state law, or which otherwise
constitute a menace to the health of, or are offensive to, persons in the
neighborhood thereof.
   (B)   The nuisances described in this section shall not be construed as
exclusive, and any act of commission or omission and any condition which
constitutes a nuisance by statute or common law of the state, when committed,
omitted or existing within the town limits, is hereby declared to constitute a
nuisance.
(1980 Code, § 10-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS, OCCUPANTS AND OTHERS.
   Each owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any real
property within the town, and each agent or representative of any such person,
is hereby charged with responsibility for the maintenance and use of such real
property in such manner that no use of, or activity or condition upon or
within, such real property shall constitute a nuisance; and all such persons
are hereby charged with the duty of observing all of the provisions of this
chapter, but such responsibility shall not be construed to permit any other
person not charged with such responsibility to commit or maintain any nuisance
upon or within any real property in the town.
(1980 Code, § 10-4)
*** NUISANCE ABATEMENT ***
§ 91.15 INSPECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS AND COMPLAINTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, the Town Marshal
and the Waterworks Superintendent to cause inspections to be made from time to
time of all portions of the town to determine whether any condition exists or
activity is being practiced which constitutes a nuisance; and they shall cause
an investigation to be made upon complaint made by any responsible person.
(1980 Code, § 10-5)
§ 91.16 RIGHT TO ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES; DUTY OF OCCUPANTS.
   Town officers shall have the right to enter, with proper warrant, upon
private premises for the purposes specified in §
91.15 of this chapter, upon compliance with all applicable provisions of law.
Unless it appears probable that advance warning would defeat the purpose of
such entry, occupants of premises to be entered shall be given reasonable
notice in advance and, in any case, it shall be unlawful for any owner or
occupant to prevent such entry which is sought to be made in compliance with
law.
(1980 Code, § 10-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.17 NOTICE TO CEASE AND DESIST WHEN ACTIVITY CONSTITUTES NUISANCE.
   If, at any time, a town officer shall find that an activity or practice
which constitutes a nuisance is occurring within the town, he or she shall
promptly and by the most expeditious means notify the violator to cease and
desist such activity or practice forthwith.
(1980 Code, § 10-7)
§ 91.18 NOTICE TO ABATE CONDITION CONSTITUTING NUISANCE; APPEAL.
   If, at any time, a town officer shall find that a condition which
constitutes a nuisance exists within the town, he or she shall give notice in
writing to the owner, occupant or person in charge of the premises upon which
such condition exists, stating therein the condition which constitutes a
nuisance and directing such addressee to remedy the condition within the time
stated in such notice, which shall be not more than ten days. It shall be
unlawful for any such owner, occupant or person in charge to fail to comply
with the terms of such notice; provided that, any owner, occupant or person in
charge may, within two days from the service thereof, appeal to the Council, in
which case the terms of such notice shall be stayed pending action of the
Council, which shall be final; provided further that, if the officer giving
notice shall state in such notice that the condition which constitutes a
nuisance is such as to be an imminent hazard to the health, safety or welfare
of the public or any person within or near the premises upon which such
nuisance exists, the addressee shall comply with the terms of such notice
forthwith.
(1980 Code, § 10-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.19 RECOURSE OF TOWN WHEN NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE IGNORED.
   (A)   Upon the failure of any person to whom notice has been given pursuant
to §
91.18 of this chapter to comply with the terms of such notice or with the terms
imposed by the Council on appeal, as the case may be, the officer giving such
notice shall forthwith direct the appropriate town officer to remedy the
condition which is the subject of such notice, and the expense incurred by the
town in so doing shall be charged to the addressee of such notice, to be
collected in any manner authorized by law.
   (B)   Abatement by the town of any condition which constitutes a nuisance
and reimbursement to the town of expenses incurred thereby shall not bar
prosecution for maintenance of a nuisance.
(1980 Code, § 10-9)
§ 91.20 SUBCHAPTER NOT TO PROHIBIT ARREST FOR COMMITTING OR MAINTAINING
NUISANCE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit any police officer
from arresting any person for committing or maintaining a nuisance, when such
arrest is made pursuant to law.
(1980 Code, § 10-10)
*** WEEDS ***
§ 91.40 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance”.
§ 91.41 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be the corporate limits of
the town, as presently defined or as may be modified from time to time by
annexation or town ordinance.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 91.42 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the town executives, or Council in
cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance violation.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal title
or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-of-
way, easement, license or lease.
   WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION.
      (1)   Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass, sorghum, alum [i.e.,
allium], bur cucumber, and shattercane.
      (2)   Rank vegetation is the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals
and perennial plants.
      (3)   WEEDS do not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the town executives with respect to the definition of
exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants and crops.
§ 91.43 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in excess of
ten inches in average height, and in no event, exceeds 15 inches maximum height
on at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
§ 91.44 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an
employee, officer or Councilmember of the town shall file the complaint in all
respects as set out above.
§ 91.45 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the town executives shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the executives regarding the
condition. The executive of the town, upon concluding that there is a probable
belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written
notification in the form of a “Destruction Order” to the property owner and/or
the person occupying the property as that information is contained within the
records of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or any other town agency. Such notice shall
be served in writing by certified mail. The notice shall provide that within
seven calendar days after the receipt of the notice that the designated
violation shall be removed by the property owner and/or person occupying the
property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the Town Clerk- Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 91.46 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the executive within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the executives. It is
the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Council
and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Councilmembers in attendance and
such being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the Council.
§ 91.47 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“Destruction Order” within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice
within 48 hours to the Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the town
executives may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 91.48 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs, attorney’s
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town. If the town uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Town
Clerk/Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the town.
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   False alarm of fire
Illegal Burning
   
92.15   Open burning restricted; general prohibitions
   
92.16   Unfavorable conditions
   
92.17   Limited burning for special purposes
   
92.18   Emergency burning
   
92.19   Liability
   
92.20   Enforcement of open burning
Fireworks
   
92.35   Discharging, firing or using
   
92.36   Sale at retail
   
92.37   Sale and storage at wholesale
   
92.38   Power of Chief of Fire Department
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Fireworks generally, see I.C. 22-11-14-1 et seq.
*** GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
§ 92.01 FALSE ALARM OF FIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of fire or in
any manner cause an alarm of fire to be turned in or given when no fire exists
in the town.
(1980 Code, § 6-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
*** ILLEGAL BURNING ***
§ 92.15 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful at all times to cause, suffer or allow any open burning
at any place within the town, except as permitted by §§
92.17 and
92.18 of this chapter; provided, no person shall cause, suffer, allow or permit
the emission into the atmosphere of any substance or combination of substances
from the burning of any product as allowed therein in such quantities as to
cause annoyance or constitute a nuisance so as to interfere with the health or
well-being of any individual in his or her home or place of employment or
recreation or as to interfere with the normal use and enjoyment of any such
place. The burning of leaves and garbage is expressly prohibited.
(Ord. 6-1994, passed 11-22-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 UNFAVORABLE CONDITIONS.
   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological conditions
such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation and the like.
(Ord. 6-1994, passed 11-22-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 LIMITED BURNING FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES.
   Open burning which does not create a nuisance or a fire hazard and which is
attended by a responsible person at all times until completely extinguished is
allowed for the following purposes.
   (A)   Open burning of wood products.
      (1)   Ceremonial fires and bonfires: a bonfire in connection with a
religious ceremony, school pep rallies, scouting activities and similar
purposes; and
      (2)   Camp fires and fires for cookouts.
   (B)   Open burning of agricultural wastes.
      (1)   Open burning of vegetative matter grown on the premises in the
course of agricultural operations, when it can be shown that such open burning
is necessary and that no fire hazard will occur; provided, the person intending
to dispose of vegetative matter by open burning obtains approval from the Fire
Department which has jurisdiction; and
      (2)   Any burning of agricultural waste permitted under the provision of
this division (B) shall be allowed only between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 7:
00 p.m., and only at times when the actual or forecast wind speed as given by
the local National Weather Service is greater than five mph and less than 20
mph. Such fires shall consist of vegetative matter only.
   (C)   Stoves for heating and fireplaces. Fires shall be permitted in wood
stoves for heating and fireplaces if such fire does not create an air pollution
problem or a fire hazard.
(Ord. 6-1994, passed 11-22-1994)
§ 92.18 EMERGENCY BURNING.
   The Town Council may allow emergency burning of petroleum products, high
explosives or other dangerous materials where such fires are properly
controlled by a responsible person and are deemed necessary in the public
interest. The Town Council may allow open burning of refuse consisting of
material resulting from a disaster if the Town Council has declared such a
disaster in the area.
(Ord. 6-1994, passed 11-22-1994)
§ 92.19 LIABILITY.
   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible material
which constitutes or contributes to a fire shall not be excused from
responsibility therefore on the basis that such fire was accidental or an act
of God. The owner of property where open burning in violation of this
subchapter and its regulations occurs shall be prima facie liable for the
violation.
(Ord. 6-1994, passed 11-22-1994)
§ 92.20 ENFORCEMENT OF OPEN BURNING.
   The open burning provisions of this subchapter are enforceable by the duly
appointed fire prevention or law enforcement officers within the town, acting
on their own initiative or at the request of the Town Council.
(Ord. 6-1994, passed 11-22-1994)
*** FIREWORKS ***
§ 92.35 DISCHARGING, FIRING OR USING.
   The discharge, firing or use of all firecrackers, rockets, torpedoes, roman
candles or other fireworks or substances designed and intended for pyrotechnic
display and of all pistols, canes, cannons or other appliances using blank
cartridges or caps containing chlorate of potash mixture or other explosives is
hereby prohibited within the town or within two miles thereof.
(1980 Code, § 6-2) (Ord. 5-28-17, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.36 SALE AT RETAIL.
   The sale of fireworks at retail is prohibited within the town.
(1980 Code, § 6-3) (Ord. 5-28-17, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37 SALE AND STORAGE AT WHOLESALE.
   The storage or sale of fireworks at wholesale is prohibited within the town.
(1980 Code, § 6-4) (Ord. 5-28-17, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.38 POWER OF CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Fire Department may, at his or her discretion, remove or have
removed, at the owner’s expense, all stocks of fireworks or other combustibles
exposed for sale or held in stock in violation of this subchapter.
(1980 Code, § 6-5) (Ord. 5-28-17, passed - -)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person violating open burning provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.20 of this chapter may be served by an authorized enforcement person with a
notice of violation. The person upon whom a notice of violation is served may
admit liability to the violation as provided in §§
92.15 through
92.20 of this chapter and pay a civil penalty of $50.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the authorized enforcement person, the
violation is so substantial as to warrant a more severe penalty, the authorized
enforcement person may issue a notice of violation and notify the Town Council
who may initiate civil enforcement by submitting a written request to the Town
Counsel to file a complaint of ordinance violation and/or to seek an
injunction. The President of the Town Council shall send notice of the written
request to the person subject to the action.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person found in violation
of the open burning provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.20 of this chapter shall be fined an amount not to exceed $2,500 for each
violation. Each day in violation shall be considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 6-1994, passed 11-22-1994)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Prohibitions and penalties
   
93.03   Authority of an authorized agent of the town
   
93.04   Apprehension and impounding of animals
   
93.05   Notice to owner
   
93.06   Redemption and disposition of impounded animals
   
93.07   Disposition of monies collected
   
93.08   Enforcement
   
93.09   Filing of complaints
   
93.10   Pet waste
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live, non-human vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by Department of Animal Services or a
municipal agency, or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding or
caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
   AT LARGE. Elsewhere than on the owner’s premises, and:
      (1)   Not restrained by a leash; or
      (2)   Not under the immediate and complete control of a person capable of
controlling the animal.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. A law enforcement officer.
   CAT. Any domestic member of the feline family of animals.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of the Town Police
Department:
      (1)   Has aggressively bitten, attacked, or endangered or has inflicted
severe injury or death on a human or domesticated animal on public or private
property;
      (2)   Has been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting,
or is a dog trained for dog fighting; or
      (3)   Has been listed as a potentially DANGEROUS DOG by the Department of
Animal Services, and exhibits behavior warranting listing as a DANGEROUS DOG.
   DOG.  Any domestic member of the canine family of animals.
   HARBOR. The actions of any person who permits any animal to habitually
remain or lodge or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard, or
place of business, or any premises on which that person resides or controls. An
animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for three days.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Franklin County Health Department.
   KENNEL. A facility operated principally for the purpose of boarding,
housing, grooming, breeding or training animals.
   LESS SEVERE INJURY. Any injury caused that results in a minor puncture,
piercing or breaking of the skin made with teeth, fangs or claws of any animal,
which does not require extensive medical treatment.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, maintaining or harboring an animal or animals on the premises to which
the animal returns or is kept for ten consecutive days or more.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that behaves in any of following ways:
      (1)   When unprovoked, engages in any behavior that requires a defensive
action by any person to prevent bodily injury, when the person and the dog are
off the property of the dog’s owner or keeper;
      (2)   When unprovoked, bites a person causing a less severe injury as
defined herein;
      (3)   When unprovoked, has killed, seriously bitten, inflicted injury or
otherwise caused injury attacking a domestic animal off the property of the
owner or keeper of the dog;
      (4)   Chases or menaces a person; or
       (5)   Runs at large.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals that:
      (1)   Attack passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Damage public or private property;
      (3)   Are not confined while in estrus (“heat”);
      (4)   Bark, whine, or howl in an excessive or continuous fashion,
unreasonable under the circumstances, as to violate the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood; or
      (5)   Do not have a permanent means of identification as provided for in
this chapter.
      It shall also be a PUBLIC NUISANCE to harbor more than four animals over
the age of four months, unless classified as a kennel.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by leash or confining it within the
real property limits by its owner.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. The state or condition of a potentially dangerous dog
being securely and humanely confined on its owner’s property within a house,
building, locked pen or other enclosure designed to prevent it from escaping
over, under or through the enclosure (known as the “primary enclosure”). If the
dog is maintained outside, a portion of its owner’s property must be fenced
with a secured perimeter fence of sufficient height and strength to prevent
entry by the public and to prevent the dog’s escape from the owner’s property.
Any weakness in a secured enclosure must be securely fixed and will be
monitored by the proper authority.
   STRAY. Any animal that, upon reasonable inquiry, does not appear to have an
owner.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any non-domesticated animal, with the exception of small non-
poisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small caged birds.
(Ord. 6-2015, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 93.02 PROHIBITIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The following prohibitions and penalties shall apply, and be
enforceable, in the incorporated areas of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow, suffer, or permit an
animal to be at large within the incorporated town. Except that it shall be
permissible, during hunting season prescribed by state law, for hunting dogs to
be allowed to hunt with their owners on private property, when permission has
been obtained from the owner thereof, and to hunt on state lands where allowed.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, molest, or interfere
with any authorized official in the performance of any duty described in this
chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit that animal
to be a public nuisance within the incorporated town. Furthermore, it shall be
unlawful for any owner of any animal to recklessly or carelessly fail to
exercise care and control over that animal in such a way that it is a public
nuisance.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit or allow it
to engage in habitual loud howling, barking, or whining, to cause disturbing
noises, or to conduct itself in such a manner as to habitually annoy any person
other than the owner or harborer of the animal. In the event that the barking
or disturbing noise continues for a period of 15 minutes in a continuous or
substantially continuous manner, the owner or individual harboring that animal
shall be subject to a fine or penalty as follows: a fine of $25 for the first
violation; a fine of $50 for the second violation; and a fine of $200 for any
subsequent violation. Additionally, upon the third violation of this chapter,
the animal may be seized and impounded. If such ordinance violation results in
the dog causing serious injury to any person, the court may, upon request after
a hearing, order the animal forfeited and/or destroyed. Any expenses associated
with the seizure or impoundment of an animal shall be paid by its owner prior
to its approved release in accordance with this chapter.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit or allow it
to cause damage or destruction to property of a person other than that of the
owner of the animal, or to commit a nuisance by defecating or urinating upon
the premises of a person other than those of the owner or harborer of the
animal.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit or allow it
to bite, chase, jump upon or otherwise harass any person in such a manner as to
cause intimidation, whether restrained by a leash or otherwise, or to put such
a person in reasonable apprehension of bodily harm or injury.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit or allow it
to habitually chase, leap on or otherwise harass bicycles or motor vehicles.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit or allow it
to kill or injure any dog, cat or other household pet.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit or allow it
to be over six months of age and not vaccinated against the rabies virus.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor a
dangerous dog or wild animal within the town.
   (L)   For the purpose of this chapter, an animal may be declared dangerous.
Every person responsible for a potentially dangerous dog shall:
      (1)   Obtain and maintain a secure enclosure to confine the dog, and must
have posted on the premises a clearly visible warning sign, reading in letters
not less than two inches high, “Beware of Dog”, at each entry point, informing
both children and adults of the presence of a vicious dog on the property.
      (2)   In order to protect the public and to afford relief from the severe
harm and injury that is likely to result from a dog attack, the owner of a
vicious dog shall obtain and maintain insurance, in the minimum amount of
$50,000, to provide for insurance against liability for damage to persons and
property caused by the vicious dog. Insurance shall be provided by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state, and the owner shall file a
certificate of insurance with the Town Police Department.
      (3)   A potentially dangerous dog must not be outside a proper enclosure,
unless the dog is muzzled and securely restrained by a leash of not more than
six feet in length, and is under the control of the owner or a competent
custodian 18 years of age or older. The muzzle must be made in a manner that
will not cause injury to the dog, or interfere with its vision or respiration,
but will prevent it from biting any human or animal. The owner may exercise the
dog outside of its primary enclosure without a muzzle or leash only if it
remains on its owner’s property within the secured perimeter fence, and only if
it remains within its owner’s sight and control at all times, and only members
of the owner’s immediate household or persons 18 years of age or older are
allowed within the perimeter fence while the dog is present. When being
transported, a potentially dangerous dog must be safely and securely restrained
within a vehicle.
      (4)   No potentially dangerous dog shall be chained, tethered or
otherwise tied to any inanimate object, such as a tree, post or building, that
is outside its proper enclosure, while unattended by its owner or a competent
custodian.
      (5)   The owner of a potentially dangerous animal shall consent to
periodic inspections by the Town Police Department.
      (6)   The owner of any potentially dangerous dog shall have it
permanently identified by means of a microchip at the owner’s expense. The
owner of any potentially dangerous dog shall also provide the Town Police
Department with a color photograph of the dog, taken within the last 12 months,
suitable for use in identifying the dog.
      (7)   Any potentially dangerous dog, which has escaped from its fenced
enclosure, may be impounded by the Town Police Department, whether or not it
has been returned to its enclosure at the time of impoundment. If impounded
pursuant to this division, the animal shall not be returned to a person
responsible for it.
   (M)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of: $25 for the first violation; $50 for the second violation; and $200
for any subsequent violation. Additionally, upon the third violation of this
chapter, the animal may be seized and impounded. If such ordinance violation
results in the dog causing serious injury to any person, the court may, upon
request after a hearing, order the animal forfeited and/or destroyed. Any
expenses associated with the seizure or impoundment of an animal shall be paid
by its owner prior to its approved release in accordance with this chapter.
   (N)   Any potentially dangerous dog found at large or not confined, as
required by this chapter, may be captured and impounded, and it shall be
returned to its owner only if the enforcement authority, at its discretion,
determines that such return will not result in further or ongoing violations of
this chapter. If such determination cannot be made, or if the dog’s actions
have caused serious injury, the enforcement officer shall apply to a court of
competent jurisdiction for an order to dispose of the animal.
   (O)   Persons or corporations owning a guard or watch dog must post, on all
gates and entrances to the property and in other conspicuous places, signs that
specifically state that there is a guard dog or watch dog on the premises.
(Ord. 6-2015, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 93.03 AUTHORITY OF AN AUTHORIZED AGENT OF THE TOWN.
   Any authorized agent of the town is given authority to:
   (A)   Kill any dangerous or potentially dangerous dog found at large within
the incorporated area of the town, which cannot be safely captured and
impounded by ordinary means; except that every reasonable effort shall be made
to avoid killing an animal that has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a
person, or that appears to have rabies. If the killing of the animal cannot
reasonably be avoided, the authorized agent shall attempt to kill the animal in
such a manner so as to preserve its head intact.
   (B)   Enter upon the land in the incorporated town, when in pursuit of any
animal that the agent has reasonable cause to believe is in violation of this
chapter, except that the agent is not authorized to enter any building without
consent of its occupant.
   (C)   Issue citations for any alleged violation of this chapter, even if not
personally observed by the agent.
   (D)   Do all things necessary to effectuate the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 6-2015, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 93.04 APPREHENSION AND IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS.
   It is the duty of persons and agencies so authorized by the town to
apprehend and impound:
   (A)   Any animal at large, or any animal deemed a public nuisance;
   (B)   Any animal not wearing a proper rabies vaccination tag, or any animal
that has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a person, or that appears to
have rabies;
   (C)   Any dangerous animal; or
   (D)   Any potentially dangerous animal outside of its secure structure.
(Ord. 6-2015, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 93.05 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Immediately upon the impounding of any dog, the owner shall be notified, or
if the owner of the dog is unknown, written notice shall be posted for seven
days at the Town Hall and at one other place, describing the dog and the time
and place of its taking. The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim it upon
payment of the license fee if unpaid, and all costs and charges incurred by the
town for impounding and maintaining the dog. Charges shall be set at $25 for
the first offense, $50 for the second offense, and $200 for subsequent
offenses. An impoundment fee of $3 per day, plus any additional costs incurred,
may be charged to the owner before the animal is released.
(Ord. 6-2015, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 93.06 REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any healthy animal apprehended or impounded may be redeemed by its
owner or other persons within seven days of its apprehension, upon showing that
the dog has a current registration tag and the animal has current rabies
vaccination tag, and upon payment of any fees associated with the dog’s
impoundment.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of seven days from the date of notice to the
owner or posting of notice, the dog shall not have been reclaimed, it may be
destroyed.
   (C)   Any unlicensed dog required by law to be licensed, or any dog
suffering from rabies, hydrophobia, mange or other infectious or dangerous
disease, shall not be released, but may be forthwith destroyed.
(Ord. 6-2015, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 93.07 DISPOSITION OF MONIES COLLECTED.
   All monies or fines collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid to the
town.
(Ord. 6-2015, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 93.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Police Department shall be primarily responsible for the
enforcement of this chapter. Additional enforcement shall be through
proceedings brought by the Town Attorney pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-3, and the
related state statutes referred to therein.
(Ord. 6-2015, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 93.09 FILING OF COMPLAINTS.
   Any person who observes a pet in violation of this chapter may file a
complaint under oath with the town at the Town Hall, specifying the nature of
the violation, the date thereof, a description of the pet and the name and
residence, if known, of the owner of the pet. The complaint may serve as the
basis for enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 6-2015, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 93.10 PET WASTE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to educate the public and
promote public health and welfare relating to the removal of pet waste from
public property or the private property of another within the incorporated
limits of the Town of Brookville.
   (B)   Definitions. When used in this chapter, the following words, terms,
and phrases, and their derivations shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include
the future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and
words used in the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall”
is always mandatory and not merely discretionary.
      IMMEDIATE. That the pet solid waste is removed at once, without delay.
      OWNER/KEEPER. Any person or persons, firm, association, partnership, LLC
or corporation having temporary or permanent custody of, sheltering or having
charge of, harboring, exercising control over, or having property rights to a
pet, or in the case of a person under the age of 18, the person's parent or
legal guardian.
      PET. A domesticated animal (other than a disability assistance animal)
kept for amusement or companionship.
      PET SOLID WASTE. Waste matter expelled from the bowels of the pet;
excrement.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY OF ANOTHER. Property of any person or persons, firm,
association, partnership, LLC or corporation, other than property of the owner
or of the owner's family.
      PROPER DISPOSAL. Placement in a designated waste receptacle, or other
suitable container, and discarded in a refuse container which is regularly
emptied by the municipality or some other refuse collector; or disposal into a
system designed to convey domestic sewage for proper treatment and disposal.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Town-owned parks, recreation areas, playing fields,
school grounds, sidewalks, easements, rights-of-way, and the traveled portion
of public streets and roads.
   (C)   Removal of pet waste. If any pet shall defecate upon any public
property, or the private property of another, the owner of said pet shall
immediately remove or cause to be removed from the property all feces deposited
by said pet. If such feces are not removed, then the owner of said pet shall be
deemed in violation of this section.
   (D)   Violations and penalty. Violations of this section shall be punishable
by fine. The first violation shall be a warning. The second violation shall be
a fine in an amount of $25 and if applicable proper pet waste removal. The
third violation shall be a fine in an amount of $100 and if applicable proper
pet waste removal. Each and every violation thereafter shall be a fine in an
amount of $100 and if applicable proper pet waste removal. Said fine shall be
paid within 15 days of the citation notice.
   (E)   Exemptions. Any owner or keeper who requires the use of a disability
assistance animal shall be exempt from the provisions of this section while
such animal is being used for that purpose.
   (F)   Enforcement. The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the
Brookville Town Police Department and the Franklin County Board of Health. The
Town of Brookville may institute civil proceedings to enforce the provisions
herein contained.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-14-2014)
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Adoption of state law
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Enforcement authority
   
94.04   Responsibility and liability of owner of abandoned vehicles or parts
   
94.05   Tagging abandoned vehicles or parts
   
94.06   Abandoned vehicle report
   
94.07   Towing and storage of vehicles or parts
   
94.08   Non-liability for loss or damage
   
94.09   Charges allowed for towing and storage
   
94.10   Severability; other ordinances or statutes
§ 94.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   This chapter specifically adopts the provisions of I.C. 9-22-1-1 through 9-
22-1-32, inclusive.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 6-27-2000)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
         (b)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 30
days;
         (c)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
         (d)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours;
         (e)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential
has been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and
left on public property;
         (f)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance if the
impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the owner’s agent
within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; and/or
         (g)   A vehicle that is mechanically inoperable, and/or unlicensed,
and is left on private property continuously in a location visible from public
property for more than 20 days.
      (2)   A vehicle otherwise fitting the definition of an ABANDONED VEHICLE
shall not be considered an ABANDONED VEHICLE if it is:
         (a)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces
of the United States who is on active duty assignment;
         (b)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial
vehicle servicing or leasing facility;
         (c)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an
automobile scrap yard; and/or
         (d)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an
antique vehicle.
      (3)   A vehicle shall not be considered an ABANDONED VEHICLE if it is
stored in a garage or other building.
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that as assembled do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   VEHICLE. An automobile, a motorcycle, a truck, a trailer, a semitrailer, a
tractor, a bus, a school bus, a recreational vehicle, a motorized bicycle and
boats.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 6-27-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicle, see I.C. 9-13-2-1
   Parts, see I.C. 9-13-2-122
   Vehicle, see I.C. 9-13-2-196
§ 94.03 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Town Ordinance Administrator, a representative of the Town Building
Department, a representative of the Town Planning and Zoning Department or any
member of the Town Police Department, including the Public Services Officer, is
hereby designated to carry out the provisions of this chapter or the provisions
of I.C. 9-22-1-1 through 9-22-1-32. For the purposes of this chapter, the
preceding authorized persons may hereafter be referred to as “officer”.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 6-27-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Officer defined, see I.C. 9-22-1-2
§ 94.04 RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY OF OWNER OF ABANDONED VEHICLES OR PARTS.
   (A)   The person who owns an abandoned vehicle or parts is responsible for
the abandonment and liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal,
storage and disposal of the vehicle or the parts.
   (B)   All costs incurred shall constitute a lien against the vehicle or
parts, and the vehicle or parts shall not be released until all such costs are
paid.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 6-27-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Responsibility and liability of owner of abandoned vehicle or parts;
limitation of costs for storage, see I.C. 9-22-1-4
   Release to owner or lienholder of stored vehicle, see I.C. 9-22-1-8
§ 94.05 TAGGING ABANDONED VEHICLES OR PARTS.
   An officer authorized under §
94.03 of this chapter who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed
to be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
   (B)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
   (C)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
   (D)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all costs
incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
   (E)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 6-27-2000; Ord. 2021-11, passed 5-25-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Tagging abandoned vehicles or parts, see I.C. 9-22-1-11
§ 94.06 ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT.
   (A)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under §
94.05 of this chapter is not removed within the 72-hour period, the officer
shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts,
including information on the condition, missing parts and other facts that
might substantiate the estimated market value of the vehicle or parts.
   (B)   Photographs may be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or
parts.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 6-27-2000; Ord. 2021-11, passed 5-25-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Officer’s abandoned vehicle report; photographs, see I.C. 9-22-1-12
§ 94.07 TOWING AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES OR PARTS.
   If, in the opinion of the officer, the vehicle or parts so merit, the
officer shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who owns the
vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72
hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage
area.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 6-27-2000; Ord. 2021-11, passed 5-25-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of tagging officer; towing and storage of vehicle or parts, see I.C.
9-22-1-14
§ 94.08 NON-LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The town shall not be liable for the loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 6-27-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Liability for loss or damage to vehicle or vehicle parts, see I.C. 9-22-1-32
§ 94.09 CHARGES ALLOWED FOR TOWING AND STORAGE.
   All costs incurred by the town against the vehicle or parts must be paid
before the vehicle or parts will be released.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 6-27-2000)
§ 94.10 SEVERABILITY; OTHER ORDINANCES OR STATUTES.
   (A)   If any provision of this chapter shall be declared invalid by a court
of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed severable and the
invalidity thereof shall not affect the remaining provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent with this chapter
are hereby repealed to the extent of such inconsistency. It is provided,
however, that, such repeal shall be only to the extent of such inconsistency,
and in all other respects the ordinance or parts of ordinances are hereby
ratified, re-established and confirmed.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 6-27-2000; Ord. 2021-11, passed 5-25-2021)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy statement
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in residential real estate related transactions
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
95.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
95.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
95.10   Exemptions
   
95.11   Administrative enforcement
   
95.12   Separability
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Town of Brookville to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et. seq.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-10-2019)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et. seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
95.04 through
95.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. 
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
   HANDICAP. 
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(LC. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-10-2019)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
95.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
95.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
95.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C) of this chapter, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by five or more families.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-10-2019)
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
95.03 and except as exempted by §§
95.03(B) and 95.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination.
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that;
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               A.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               B.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and
other environmental controls in accessible locations;
               C.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as AANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (A)(8)(c)(3)C.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
95.03 through
95.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex. handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of
“family” is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3, passed 6-10-2019)
§ 95.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C )of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, ‘housing for
older persons’ means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or Federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-10-2019)
§ 95.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
Town of Brookville, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Town of
Brookville, Indiana, because of lack of financial and other resources necessary
to fully administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under
the chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the
articles of this chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission
for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Official of the Town of Brookville, Indiana, shall refer all said
complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section
to said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate
relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the Town of Brookville,
Indiana shall administer their departments, programs and activities relating to
housing and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes
of this chapter and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the
Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the Town of Brookville , Indiana, or the
Chief Elected Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-10-2019)
§ 95.12 SEPARABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of the chapter
and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly situated
or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 6-10-2019)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any citizen, because he or she is or has been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in §
95.08, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SOLICITORS
      
111.   SIDEWALK DINING
      
112.   DESIGNATED OUTDOOR REFRESHMENT AREAS
CHAPTER 110: SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Application for registration; requirements
   
110.02   Bond
   
110.03   Fee
   
110.04   Exemptions
§ 110.01 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit for the sale of, offer
for sale or sell from house to house or by telephone within the corporate
limits of the town any goods, wares or merchandise whatsoever or subscriptions
to any kind of publication without first having registered with the Clerk-
Treasurer and having received a registration certificate showing the following:
      (1)   The name and home address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and home address of the person such applicant represents
or in whose behalf he or she is soliciting orders or selling anything of value;
and
      (3)   A photograph of the applicant attached to such certificate and the
certification of the Clerk-Treasurer over his or her signature that such person
is registered.
   (B)   At the time of registration, the applicant shall furnish the Clerk-
Treasurer with two photographs of a size to be prescribed by the Clerk-
Treasurer. One of such photographs shall be attached to the certificate issued
to the registrant and the other shall be retained in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   At the time of registering, the applicant shall also submit to the
taking of a set of fingerprints by the Town Police Department and shall sign
his or her name to the registration record kept by the Clerk-Treasurer and to
the card on which his or her fingerprints are taken.
(1980 Code, § 12-1) (Ord. 3-1967, passed - -1967) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 BOND.
   Prior to the issuance of a certificate of registration, the applicant shall
file with the Clerk-Treasurer a bond in the penal sum of $1,000 with surety to
be approved by the Clerk-Treasurer conditioned upon his or her faithful and
honest discharge of the duties and obligations which he or she may undertake
between himself or herself and his or her customers and holding free from
financial loss anyone dealing with him or her.
(1980 Code, § 12-2) (Ord. 3-1967, passed - -1967)
§ 110.03 FEE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall collect from each person registered as a door-to-
door salesperson or solicitor, at the time of registration, a registration fee
in the sum of $25 for 30 days or $100 per year.
(1980 Code, § 12-3) (Ord. 3-1967, passed - -1967)
§ 110.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   There shall be exempted from the provisions of this chapter such local
civic, charitable, religious and non-profit organizations who from time to time
conduct solicitations and sell subscriptions and other items for the benefit of
such organizations, but not for the personal gain or benefit of any individual
connected therewith; provided that, each such organization prior to the
commencement of such solicitation or sales shall first make application with
the Clerk-Treasurer for an exemption certificate. Upon a showing being made to
the Clerk-Treasurer that the project and organization is qualified under the
exemption provisions of this chapter, such exemption certificate shall be
issued.
(1980 Code, § 12-4) (Ord. 3-1967, passed - -1967)
CHAPTER 111: SIDEWALK DINING
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Application for registration; requirements
   
111.03   Restrictions
   
111.04   Renewal of registration
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING RETAIL BUSINESS PROPERTY. Any real property used for retail
business, which abuts (but is not located in) the public sidewalk area.
   CAFE AREA. The area used for dining activity and shall include the entire
sidewalk sales area and any part of the abutting retail business property used
directly for dining activity.
   DINING ACTIVITY. The retail sale of beverages or food or the provision of a
place for the consumption of beverages or food.
   EFFECTIVE WALKWAY WIDTH. The portion of the sidewalk in the public sidewalk
area that is reasonably available for use by the pedestrian stream moving
through the area.
   PUBLIC SIDEWALK AREA. A sidewalk area located in the public right-of-way or
in an area in which the public has an easement for sidewalk purposes, or both.
   SIDEWALK SALES AREA. The portion of the public sidewalk area which has been
registered with the town for dining activity.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-23-2021)
§ 111.02 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Administrator is authorized to approve a registration of a
person to use a sidewalk sales area situated immediately next to the abutting
retail business property owned or leased by the person for the sole purpose of
engaging in dining activity. The sidewalk sales area which the person utilizes
for dining activity shall be located in the town. A person who desires to
register to use a sidewalk sales area for dining activity shall complete a
registration form provided by the Town Administrator, and file the form with
the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The Town Administrator shall approve the registration and issue a
certificate of registration to each applicant who qualifies, if the
requirements listed in this division are met.
      (1)   The sidewalk sales area shall meet these requirements:
         (a)   The sidewalk sales area must be located next to abutting retail
business property; and
         (b)   The dimensions of the sidewalk sales area to be used for dining
activity shall be approved by the Town Administrator, who shall determine the
effective walkway width that will safely and comfortably accommodate pedestrian
traffic at that location for a significant number of hours each week.
      (2)   The applicant shall be actively engaged in a retail business
involving the sale of beverages or food in the abutting retail business
property. The beverages or food sold in the cafe area will also be sold in the
abutting retail business property.
      (3)   The Town Administrator shall have determined on which days and
during what hours the sidewalk sales area may be used for dining activity.
      (4)   The applicant shall have provided a certificate of public liability
insurance to the Town Administrator insuring the person and naming the Town of
Brookville as an additional insured and be given a 30-day notice of
cancellation, non-renewal or significant change of coverage. The required
amounts of personal injury and property damage insurance requirements shall be
in the amount of $1,000,000 and shall be maintained by the applicant throughout
the term of the registration.
      (5)   The applicant shall have provided a document in which the applicant
agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the town for losses, damages, claims or
expenses arising out of the use of the sidewalk sales area for dining activity.
      (6)   A drawing or site plan which shows the appearance and location of
furniture, fixtures, and equipment (including, but not limited to, tables,
barriers, chairs, signs, awnings, trash receptacles and umbrellas) in the cafe
area shall have been approved by the Town Administrator for consistency with
the requirements and objectives of this chapter.
   (C)   All applications for licenses shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name and business address;
      (2)   The name and address of all persons who have a financial or legal
interest in the business;
      (3)   The name in which, and address where, the business will be
conducted;
      (4)   Any other information specifically required by following sections
of this chapter, or deemed necessary by the Town Administrator; and
      (5)   All applications shall be signed personally by the applicant, and
if the applicant is not a
natural person, then by an authorized representative of the applicant.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-23-2021)
§ 111.03 RESTRICTIONS.
   Use of the cafe area for dining activity under this chapter shall be subject
to the following conditions:
   (A)   The applicant shall be required to obey the commands of police
officers, firefighters and all other public authorities acting pursuant to law
with respect to activity carried out in the sidewalk sales area, including the
temporary removal of furniture and equipment and temporary cessation of dining
activity;
   (B)   When dining activity is not being conducted or when the abutting
retail business property is not open, the applicant shall remove from the
sidewalk sales area, or otherwise secure, all furniture, equipment and goods
which are susceptible to movement by the elements or by unauthorized persons;
   (C)   All furniture, equipment and goods must be susceptible to being
removed from the sidewalk sales area within a reasonable period of time at any
time with the manpower normally available to the applicant;
   (D)   Provision shall be made to assure the public area will not be
littered, including placement of adequate trash receptacles and periodic
picking up of litter in the sidewalk sales area;
   (E)   Pedestrians shall not be exposed to any undue safety or health hazard
nor shall a public nuisance be created;
   (F)   Sales of beverages or food may not be made to a person in or on any
motorized vehicle;
   (G)   Beverages or food sold in the sidewalk sales area shall be provided
only for consumption in the sidewalk sales area or in the abutting retail
business property;
   (H)   No alcohol may be served, sold or consumed on the sidewalk unless
authorized under the licensee's alcoholic beverage permit issued by the Indiana
Alcohol and Tobacco Commission. Proof of permission must be submitted with the
application;
   (I)   The Town Administrator, by written notice to the applicant, forbids
the use of the sidewalk sales area during the time and within the geographic
boundaries of a special event, or requires that the registrant meet the
additional requirements imposed on all vendors by the special event sponsor;
and
   (J)   A registration under this chapter shall be valid for a period of one
year from the date of issuance, unless a shorter period of time is indicated on
the certificate of registration.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-23-2021)
§ 111.04 RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to the time a registration under this chapter is renewed:
      (1)   The Town Administrator may review the pedestrian traffic flow and,
if appropriate, modify the sidewalk sales area or the days and hours the area
may be used;
      (2)   The Town Administrator may review the site plan to assure that any
changed conditions comply with the objectives of this chapter; and
      (3)   The Town Administrator may review the operation of the sidewalk
dining to determine if its continued operation is in the best interests of the
town.
   (B)   If, after the reviews provided in division (A) of this section, it is
determined that there are no changed conditions which would not allow
pedestrian traffic flow standards to be met, no changes in the detailed site
plan, and no change of circumstances such that the continued operation of the
sidewalk dining would not be in the best interests of the town, then
registrations shall be renewed automatically by the Town Administrator and
without application for renewal by the applicant, unless at the time of the
renewal the registration:
      (1)   Has been revoked or suspended; or
      (2)   Is the subject of administrative or judicial proceedings which have
the potential to result in the revocation or suspension of the registration, in
which case the registration may continue in effect until the conclusion of the
administrative or judicial proceedings.
   (C)   The Town Administrator shall be responsible for making periodic
inspections of dining activity carried out in sidewalk areas.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-23-2021)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Penalties for violation of this chapter include a fine of not less than $25
and, if the violation continues, a charge not less than $25 but no more than
$500 a day for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-23-2021)
CHAPTER 112: DESIGNATED OUTDOOR
REFRESHMENT AREAS
Section
   
112.01   Incorporation of state law
   
112.02   Total designated outdoor refreshment areas
   
112.03   Amendment or revocation of DORAs
   
112.04   Downtown DORA boundary
   
112.05   Compliance with zoning code
   
112.06   DORA signage and logo
   
112.07   Hours of operation
   
112.08   Designated permittee
   
112.09   Proposed designated permittees of downtown DORA
   
112.10   Trash receptacles
   
112.11   Special event application
   
112.12   Right of refusal
   
112.13   Permitted amounts
   
112.14   Authorized containers
   
112.15   Carryout businesses
   
112.16   Prohibition of outside beverages
   
112.17   Revocation of designated permittee and/or vendor status
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   All requirements and definitions found in I.C. 7.1-3-31 et seq., as the same
may be amended from time to time, shall apply throughout this chapter and are
incorporated herein by reference. If there exists a conflict between the
Indiana Code and this chapter, the provisions found in the Indiana Code shall
govern.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.02 TOTAL DESIGNATED OUTDOOR REFRESHMENT AREAS.
   The Town of Brookville (the "town") does hereby authorize the establishment
of a designated outdoor refreshment area ("DORA"), as described and detailed
herein, with the potential to establish a total of seven DORAs in and
throughout the town, as permitted by state law, at a point in the future as may
be determined by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.03 AMENDMENT OR REVOCATION OF DORAS.
   The town may, at any time, by subsequent ordinance of the Town Council,
amend or revoke a DORA, individually, or all DORAs in their entirety.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.04 DOWNTOWN DORA BOUNDARY.
   The downtown area depicted in Exhibit "A," attached to Ordinance 2024-10 is
incorporated herein by reference and is designated as the Downtown Brookville
designated outdoor refreshment area (the "downtown DORA"). The boundaries of
the downtown DORA by street address and direction are as follows: Beginning at
the intersection of Cliff Street and West 9th Street (Border #1) and moving
east to the intersection of 9th Street and Main Street (Border #2). Thence
moving south to the intersection of Main Street and 5th Street (Border #3) and
then east to the intersection of East 5th Street and Franklin Avenue (Border
#4). Moving then south to the intersection of Franklin Avenue and East 4th
Street (Border #5) and then west to the intersection of East 4th Street and an
unnamed alleyway (Border #6). South along said unnamed alleyway to the
intersection of the unnamed alleyway and East Third Street (Border #7). Then
moving west to the intersection of West 3rd Street and Progress Street (Border
#8) and then north to the intersection of Progress Street and West 7th Street
(Border #9) and then west to the intersection of West 7th Street and Cliff
Street (Border #10). Finally, from Border #10 north along Cliff Street to its
intersection with East 9th Street at Border #1.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.05 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING CODE.
   The Town Council finds that the adoption of the downtown DORA and/or other
DORAs subsequently established are consistent with the Franklin County Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.06 DORA SIGNAGE AND LOGO.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby approves and adopts the signage requirements
of I.C. 7.1-3-31 et seq. designating the town's downtown DORA and said signage
shall be placed at the boundaries of the downtown DORA at common and
conspicuous exit locations as required by law. Said signage is attached to
Ordinance 2024-10, marked as Exhibit "B," and is incorporated herein by
reference.
   (B)   The Town Council shall adopt and establish a common brand or logo (the
"DORA logo") for the downtown DORA and other DORAs subsequently established.
Any and all private signage utilizing the DORA logo shall be subject to the
approval of the Town Council and shall comply with all applications and fees so
determined or required.
   (C)   All signage posted in furtherance of the downtown DORA and/or other
DORAs subsequently established shall comply with all signage requirements of
the town as enumerated by this code and/or the Franklin County Zoning
Ordinance. However, reasonable accommodations and deference shall be made and
afforded to enable and ensure signage which is proper and compliant with I.C.
7.1-3-31 et seq.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours of operation for all DORAs shall be Sunday through Saturday from 10:30
a.m. until closure as required by I.C. 7.1-3-1-14, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.08 DESIGNATED PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Businesses, persons, entities, or organizations which are located
within a DORA wishing to continually participate by selling or distributing
alcoholic beverages shall be required to complete and submit an application and
pay all required costs and/or fees, if any so required, to the town in order to
participate in a DORA as a “designated permittee.” Once approved by the town,
applications shall be sent to the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission for
said Commission's approval.
   (B)   Upon approval of the downtown DORA and each designated permittee by
the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission, the designated permittees shall
remove all stanchions, fencing, or other means of separation previously
required by law from all common areas, sidewalks, and rights-of- way of the
town as provided in I.C. 7.1-3-31-15.
   (C)   As required by I.C. 7.1-3-31-16, a sign must be posted at each exit of
a designated permittee and on the licensed premises of a vendor that informs
the public of the following:
      (1)   Any open alcoholic beverage containers purchasing within the DORA
must remain within the DORA;
      (2)   Possessing an open container of alcoholic beverages in a motor
vehicle may constitute a Class C infraction under I.C. 9-30-15; and
      (3)   The dates the DORA will be open if the DORA has date restrictions.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.09 PROPOSED DESIGNATED PERMITTEES OF DOWNTOWN DORA.
   (A)   The proposed and/or potential designated permittees of the downtown
DORA, pending each's interest, application, and approval shall include, but not
be necessarily limited to:
      (1)   Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 2014.
      (2)   Brookville Bowling Lanes.
      (3)   Fraternal Order of Eagles #1129.
      (4)   Third Place.
      (5)   Pioneer Restaurant and Lounge.
      (6)   Knights of Columbus #1010.
      (7)   Hilltop Restaurant and Sports Dining.
   (B)   The town requests the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission to
approve each as a designated permittee upon submission of their completed
application to the town. Any additional licensed premises located within the
downtown DORA who desire to be designated as a designated permittee shall
submit the town's DORA designated permittee application to the town for
approval and recommendation by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.10 TRASH RECEPTACLES.
   A designated permittee approved by the town and the Indiana Alcohol Tobacco
Commission shall continuously maintain a trash receptacle(s) outside of all
main entrances to their premises at their sole cost and expense.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.11 SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION.
   Any business, person, entity, or organization, which is either not a
designated permittee; or a designated permittee wishing to expand operations
and service into the DORA beyond its licensed premises, that desires to sell
alcoholic beverages during an event, festival, or otherwise within a DORA (both
of the foregoing are referred to herein as a “vendor”), shall submit a special
event application and pay all required fees, if any so determined, to the town
for review and approval by the Town Council. Prior to submission of the special
events application, the vendor shall provide, as an attachment to the
application, copies of the vendor's temporary beer or wine permit or their
catering permit and/or supplement thereto; temporary vendor designation, both
of which may be obtained from the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission; and
any other required documentation or items so requested. Vendors shall be
permitted to establish a location of service and participation anywhere within
a DORA which they have elected to participate, subject to review and approval
by the Town Council as part of the special event application process.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.12 RIGHT OF REFUSAL.
   (A)   Any business, residence, landlord, building owner, retailer, real
property owner, lessee, and/or other establishment located in a DORA may, on a
non-discriminatory basis, refuse to allow patrons to enter their premises,
building, property, or business with an alcoholic beverage. Any business or
premises which elects to exercise a right of refusal or to otherwise deny
patrons' entry with alcoholic beverages is recommended to post signage
indicating such election, but such signage shall not be required.
   (B)   The town maintains full authority and control over sidewalks, streets,
parks, and/or other common areas of the town and no person or entity may
prohibit or limit open and authorized containers in accordance with I.C. 7.1-3-
31 et seq. with a DORA in those spaces except for the town Police Department.
   (C)   All designated permittees and/or vendors shall continue to have the
right to refuse service to any patron, on a non-discriminatory basis, in their
sole discretion in compliance with Indiana law.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.13 PERMITTED AMOUNTS.
   Subject to the provisions of §
112.14, below, all designated permittees and/or vendors shall permit patrons to
exit a designated permittee's and/or vendor's premises with not more than two
open containers of an alcoholic beverage at a time. The contents of an open
container may not exceed the following amounts:
   (A)   Beer or flavored malt beverage of not more than 16 ounces;
   (B)   Wine, cider, or hard seltzer of not more than 12 ounces; and
   (C)   A mixed drink of not more than ten ounces which contains not more than
two ounces of liquor.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.14 AUTHORIZED CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Designated permittees and/or vendors shall only permit patrons to exit
their premises into a DORA if the alcoholic beverages, as described in §
112.13, above, have been placed into a clear, non-breakable plastic cup labeled
with a label approved and authorized by the town (“DORA container”). Beverages
consumed within a designated permittee's and/or vendor's premises are not
required to be in a DORA container. Glass containers are explicitly prohibited
from exiting the designated permittee's and/or vendor's premises into the DORA.
   (B)   The town may delegate and designate a department, agent, entity, and/
or individual with the right to serve as the exclusive designer, manufacturer,
distributor, and/or retailer and service provider of DORA containers for use in
DORAs and does so delegate said authority to Main Street Brookville, Inc., an
Indiana Non-Profit Corporation with 501(c)(3) status (Main Street).
   (C)   The town shall adopt and approve a DORA container, the design of which
shall include the DORA logo and/or any other information approved or so
required by the Town Council.
   (D)   Designated permittees and/or vendors shall purchase the requisite DORA
containers from Main Street. Main Street shall utilize proceeds obtained from
the sale of the authorized DORA containers to assist the town with the payment
of costs and expenses associated with signage, public safety, sanitation costs,
events, improvements, and operations of the downtown DORA and any subsequently
created DORAs.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.15 CARRYOUT BUSINESSES.
   The carryout privileges that a designated permittee may have under the scope
of the designated permittee's other permits or licenses shall not be impacted
or otherwise affected by being located within a DORA. Carryout of sealed
original containers shall be permitted, but said containers shall not be opened
or consumed within a DORA.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.16 PROHIBITION OF OUTSIDE BEVERAGES.
   Persons may not consume beverages within a DORA which were not purchased
from a designated permittee and/or vendor and/or which were brought from
outside a DORA into the subject DORA. The refilling of a DORA container with
alcoholic or other beverages is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.17 REVOCATION OF DESIGNATED PERMITTEE AND/OR VENDOR STATUS.
   Failure of a designated permittee and/or vendor to comply with this chapter
shall result in an immediate revocation of a designated permittee's and/or
vendor's right and ability to participate in a DORA. In such event, the town or
its designated department or agent shall deliver or serve notice of such
revocation upon the designated permittee and/or vendor. Said revocation shall
contain the following: that the revocation shall be immediately effective; that
the designated permittee and/or vendor shall immediately cease their
participation in the DORA; and the basis for the revocation. Said revocation
may be appealed to the Town Council by the designated permittee and/or vendor
by providing the Clerk-Treasurer of the town with a request to appear before
the Town Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting within ten calendar
days of the notice of revocation being delivered or served on the designated
permittee and/or vendor. If a revocation is reversed by the Town Council, the
designated permittee and/or vendor shall be subject to a fine as outlined in §
112.99, below. The decision of the Town Council regarding such appeal of a
revocation shall be final.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the revocation outlined in §
112.16, above, any violation of any section of this chapter by any designated
permittee, vendor, person, business, and the like shall be a Class C infraction
punishable by a fine of up to $500.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-17-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Air guns; discharge
   
130.02   Explosives; use within town
   
130.03   Firearms; discharge
   
130.04   Curfew
   
130.05   Noise
   
130.06   Town parks tobacco-free policy
Littering
   
130.20   Definitions
   
130.21   Maintenance of private property; free of litter
   
130.22   Littering from vehicles
   
130.23   Grass clippings
   
130.24   Tampering with receptacles
Loitering
   
130.35   Loitering prohibited
   
130.36   Unlawful assembly prohibited
   
130.37   Exceptions
   
130.38   Probable cause
 
   
130.99   Penalty
*** GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
§ 130.01 AIR GUNS; DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or discharge, or to permit any
other person to shoot or discharge, any air gun within the town.
(1980 Code, § 11-1) (Ord. passed 1-11-1926) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 EXPLOSIVES; USE WITHIN TOWN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use dynamite or other explosives, in
any form whatever, within the town.
(1980 Code, § 11-3) (Ord. passed 7-22-1895) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 FIREARMS; DISCHARGE.
   No person shall fire off, within the town, any firearm.
(1980 Code, § 11-4) (Ord. passed 7-22-1895) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 CURFEW.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child less than 15 years of age to be
in a public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   It is a defense to a violation of divisions (A) or (B) above that, at
the time the child engaged in the prohibited conduct, the child was
emancipated:
      (1)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
      (2)   By virtue of having married; or
      (3)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction.
   (D)   It is a defense to a violation of divisions (A) or (B) above that the
child engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian
or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Art.
1, § 31, of the Constitution of the state, or both, such as freedom of speech
and the right of assembly; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults.
      (4)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside the state to another location outside the state.
(Ord. 1-2001, passed 6-26-2001) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 NOISE.
   (A)   Unnecessary noise generally. Subject to the provisions of this
section, the creation of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noise is prohibited. Noise of such character, intensity and duration as to be
detrimental to the life or health of any individual is prohibited.
(1980 Code, § 9-1)
   (B)   Noises expressly prohibited. The following acts, among others, are
declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this
section, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal
if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in motion,
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device of
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other than a police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The playing of any radio, phonograph or other musical instrument in
such manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 11: 00
p.m. and 7: 00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any
person in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motorboat engine,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district, other than
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of
urgent necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only with a permit
from the Council, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or
less while the emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same is in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of such institution; provided that, conspicuous signs are displayed in such
street indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church; provided that, conspicuous signs are displayed in such
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the same are church streets;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises, which disturbs the quiet or repose of any person in the vicinity
thereof;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors,
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising or other purposes, except where a
specific license is received from the Police Department; and
      (17)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(1980 Code, § 9-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 TOWN PARKS TOBACCO-FREE POLICY.
   (A)   Tobacco use is hereby eliminated in Brookville Town Parks. No person
shall use any form of tobacco including cigarettes, cigars, vaping devices,
electronic cigarettes, and other smokeless tobacco at or on any Brookville Town
Park including the restrooms, spectator and concession areas. These facilities
include the entire park area, but are not limited to, playgrounds, athletic
fields, parks, shelters and walking/hiking trails.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Appropriate signs shall be posted in the above specified areas.
      (2)   The community will be notified about this policy.
      (3)   Any person found violating this policy will be asked to discontinue
tobacco use or remove themselves from the premises of the Brookville Town
Parks.
(Res. 7-2016, passed 11-8-2016)
*** LITTERING ***
§ 130.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Any human-made or human-used waste, which, if deposited within the
town otherwise than in a litter receptacle, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare or to impair the environment of the people of the
town. LITTER shall include, but is not limited to, garbage, trash, refuse,
debris, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, paper products, glass,
metal, plastic or paper containers, motor vehicle parts, furniture, carcasses
of dead animals or any other waste material of any unsightly, unsanitary,
nauseous or offensive nature.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property, including, but not limited to, vacant land
or any land upon which is located one or more buildings or other structure
designed or used for residential, commercial, business, industrial,
institutional or religious purposes, together with any yard, grounds, walk,
driveway, fence, porch or other structure or improvement appurtenant to said
land, except any public place.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, alleys or
other public ways, and any and all public parks, lakes, spaces, grounds or
buildings within the corporate limits of said town or owned by said town.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-22-1994)
§ 130.21 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY; FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall, at all times,
maintain such private premises free of litter that is capable of being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private premises.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-22-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partially loaded truck or
other vehicle within the town unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as
to prevent any part of its load, contents or litter from being blown or
deposited upon any public place or private premises.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-22-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 GRASS CLIPPINGS.
   No person shall discharge or permit the discharge of grass clippings upon
any public street, alley or any surface water gutter or drain in the town.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-22-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 TAMPERING WITH RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall upset or tamper with public or private receptacles designed
or used for the deposit of litter.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-22-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
*** LOITERING ***
§ 130.35 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall loiter or prowl in a place, at a time or in a manner not
usual for law abiding citizens, under circumstances that warrant a justifiable
and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property
in the vicinity, in any public way, street, highway, place or alley and refuse
to obey the lawful command of a police officer to move on or provide to said
police officer a lawful reason for remaining on said public way, street,
highway, place or alley if the alleged loitering by said person would create or
cause to be created any of the following:
   (A)   Danger of a breach of the peace;
   (B)   The unreasonable danger of a disturbance to the comfort and repose of
any person acting lawfully on or in a public way, street, highway, place or
alley reserved for pedestrians;
   (C)   The obstruction or attempted obstruction of the free normal flow of
vehicular traffic or the normal passage of pedestrian traffic upon any public
way, street, highway, place or alley; and/or
   (D)   The obstruction, molestation or interference or attempt to obstruct,
molest or interfere with any person lawfully on or in a public way, street,
highway, place or alley, in a manner that would cause a reasonable person or
pedestrian of a public way, street, highway place or alley to fear for his or
her safety.
(Ord. 3-1990, passed 8-28-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.36 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY PROHIBITED.
   No person who is a member of a group of three or more persons who are
loitering or prowling in a place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law
abiding citizens, under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable
alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity, in a public way, street, highway, place or alley, shall refuse the
lawful command of a police officer to move on or provide to said police officer
a lawful reason for remaining in a public way, street, highway, place or alley,
whether said group is stationary or in transit, if the alleged loitering would
create or cause to be created any of the following:
   (A)   Danger of a breach of the peace;
   (B)   The unreasonable danger of a disturbance to the comfort and repose of
any person acting lawfully on or in a public way, street, highway, place or
alley reserved for pedestrians;
   (C)   The obstruction or attempted obstruction of the free normal flow of
vehicular traffic or the normal passage of pedestrian traffic upon any public
way, street, highway, place or alley; and/or
   (D)   The obstruction, molestation or interference or attempt to obstruct,
molest or interfere with any person lawfully on or in a public way, street,
highway, place or alley, in a manner that would cause a reasonable person or
pedestrian of a public way, street, highway place or alley to fear for his or
her safety.
(Ord. 3-1990, passed 8-28-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.37 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall be convicted under this subchapter if the police
officer failed to comply with the procedure outlined herein.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted under this subchapter if it appears at
trial that the explanation given by the person is true and, if believed by the
police would:
      (1)   Have dispelled the fear for human safety;
      (2)   Have dispelled the concern for safety of property;
      (3)   Have dispelled the fear of a breach of the peace; and
      (4)   Have provided a justifiable reason for obstructing vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, subject to the discretion of the court.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to solicitation for
any lawful business or any solicitor licensed under the provisions of Ord. 6-
1977.
(Ord. 3-1990, passed 8-28-1990)
§ 130.38 PROBABLE CAUSE.
   If a person takes flight upon appearance of a police officer who identifies
himself or herself as such, or refuses to identify himself or herself, or
attempts to conceal himself or herself, said police officer has probable cause
to believe a violation of this section has occurred and is hereby duly
authorized to make an arrest.
(Ord. 3-1990, passed 8-28-1990)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of §§
130.20 through
130.24 of this chapter may be served by an authorized enforcement person with a
notice of violation. The person upon whom a notice of violation is served may
admit liability to the violation and pay a civil penalty of $25 directly to the
town.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the authorized enforcement person, the
violation is so substantial as to warrant a more severe penalty, the authorized
enforcement person may issue a notice of violation and citation to appear in
the County Circuit Court for determination of the alleged violation of §§
130.20 through
130.24 of this chapter.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person found in violation
of the provisions of §§
130.20 through
130.24 of this chapter shall be fined an amount not to exceed $2,500 for each
violation. Each day in violation shall be considered a separate violation. The
town may also seek an injunction to prevent further violation of §§
130.20 through
130.24 of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation convicted of violating any provision
of §§
130.35 through
130.38 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500,
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 3-1990, passed 8-28-1990; Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-22-1994)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
      
154.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITIES IN TOWN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
155.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
CHAPTER 150: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Scope
   
150.03   Intent
   
150.04   Severability
   
150.05   Applicability
   
150.06   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.20   Department of Property Maintenance Inspection
   
150.21   Code Official; powers and duties
   
150.22   Approval; testing
   
150.23   Notices and orders
   
150.24   Unsafe structures and equipment
   
150.25   Emergency measures
   
150.26   Demolition
   
150.27   Board of Appeals
Minimum Conditions and Responsibilities
   
150.40   General
   
150.41   Exterior property areas
   
150.42   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs
   
150.43   Exterior structures
   
150.44   Interior structures
   
150.45   Handrails and guardrails
   
150.46   Rubbish and garbage
   
150.47   Extermination
 
   
150.99   Penalty
*** GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the “Property Maintenance Code of The
Town of Brookville”, hereinafter referred to as “this code” or “this chapter”
and hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-9, which establishes the Indiana Unsafe Building
Law and explicitly incorporate by reference the definition of “substantial
property interest” found in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 150.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing residential and non-
residential structures and all existing premises and constitute minimum
requirements and standards for premises, structures, equipment and facilities
for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation, protection from the
elements, life safety, safety from fire and other hazards, and for safe and
sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners, operators and occupants;
the occupancy of existing structures and premises, and for administration,
enforcement and penalties.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 150.03 INTENT.
   This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to
ensure public health, safety and welfare in so far as they are affected by the
continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises. Existing
structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall be
altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as required
herein.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 150.04 SEVERABILITY.
   If a section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is, for any
reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this code.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 150.05 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   General. The provisions of this code shall apply to all matters
affecting or relating to structures and premises, as set forth herein. Where,
in a specific case, different sections of this code specify different
requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. In the event that a provision
of this code differs from any rule of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission, the rules of the Commission shall govern.
   (B)   Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by
this code or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or
premises was constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good
working order. No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service,
facility, equipment or utility which is required under this section to be
removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except
for such temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are
in progress. The requirements of this code are not intended to provide the
basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and
devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner
or the owner’s designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of
buildings, structures and premises.
   (C)   Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission and the County Building Code and the County Zoning
Code, as applicable. Nothing in this code shall be construed to cancel, modify
or set aside any provision of the above-referenced rules and codes.
   (D)   Existing remedies. The provisions in this code shall not be construed
to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or
agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure which is
dangerous, unsafe and unsanitary.
   (E)   Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations
which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall
be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s installation instructions.
   (F)   Historic buildings. The provisions of this code shall not be mandatory
for existing buildings or structures designated as historic buildings when such
buildings or structures are judged by the code official to be safe and in the
public interest of health, safety and welfare.
   (G)   Requirements not covered by code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure or
equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not
specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the Code Official and
in accordance with the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 150.06 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms
shall, for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
      (2)   Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the
future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
      (3)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined herein, such terms
shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies.
      (4)   Parts. Whenever the words “dwelling unit”, “dwelling”, “premises”,
“building”, “rooming house”, “rooming unit”, “housekeeping unit” or “story” are
stated in this code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words “or any part thereof”.
   (B)   For definitions, see I.C. 22-12 and the Rules of the Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission at 675 IAC.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013)
*** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ***
§ 150.20 DEPARTMENT OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE INSPECTION.
   (A)   General. The Department of Property Maintenance Inspection is hereby
created and the executive official in charge thereof shall be known as the Code
Official.
   (B)   Appointment. The Code Official shall be appointed by the chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction; and the Code Official shall not be
removed from office, except for cause and after full opportunity to be heard on
specific and relevant charges by and before the appointing authority.
   (C)   Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this
jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the Code
Official shall have the authority to appoint a Deputy Code Official, other
related technical officers, inspectors and other employees.
   (D)   Liability.
      (1)   The Code Official, officer or employee charged with the enforcement
of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction, shall not thereby be rendered
liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any
damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act required or
permitted in the discharge of official duties.
      (2)   Any suit instituted against any officer or employee because of an
act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and
under the provisions of this code shall be defended by the legal representative
of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. The Code
Official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or
proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code; and
any officer of the Department of Property Maintenance Inspection, acting in
good faith and without malice, shall be free from liability for acts performed
under any of its provisions or by reason of any act or omission in the
performance of official duties in connection therewith.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 150.21 CODE OFFICIAL; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General. The Code Official shall enforce the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Rule-making authority. The Code Official shall have authority, with
the advice and consent of the Town Council, as necessary in the interest of
public health, safety and general welfare, to adopt and promulgate rules and
procedures; to interpret and implement the provisions of this code; to secure
the intent thereof; and to designate requirements applicable because of local
climatic or other conditions. Such rules shall not have the effect of waiving
structural or fire performance requirements specifically provided for in this
code, or of violating accepted engineering methods involving public safety.
   (C)   Inspections. The Code Official shall make all of the required
inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or
individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be
certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the
responsible individual. The Code Official is authorized to engage such expert
opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise,
subject to the approval of the appointing authority.
   (D)   Right of entry. The Code Official is authorized to enter the structure
or premises at reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional
restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not
obtained, the Code Official is authorized to pursue recourse as provided by
law.
   (E)   Identification. The Code Official shall carry proper identification
when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this
code.
   (F)   Notices and orders. The Code Official shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code.
   (G)   Department records. The Code Official shall keep official records of
all business and activities of the department specified in the provisions of
this code. Such records shall be retained in the official records as long as
the building or structure to which such records relate remains in existence,
unless otherwise provided for by other regulations.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 150.22 APPROVAL; TESTING.
   (A)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this code, the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission shall apply.
   (B)   Alternative materials, methods and equipment. The provisions of this
code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to
prohibit any method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code;
provided that, any such alternative has been approved. An alternative material
or method of construction shall be approved in accordance with the rules of the
Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission where the Code Official
finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of
the provisions of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is,
for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this
code in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and
safety.
   (C)   Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this code, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the rules of the
Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission shall apply.
      (1)   Test methods. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by
other recognized test standards.
      (2)   Test reports. Reports of tests shall be retained by the Code
Official for the period required for retention of public records.
   (D)   Material and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment and devices shall
not be reused unless such elements are in good repair or have been
reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in good and proper working
condition and approved.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 150.23 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice to person responsible. Whenever the Code Official determines
that there has been a violation of this code or has grounds to believe that a
violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in
divisions (B) or (C) below to the person responsible for the violation as
specified in this code. Notices for condemnation procedures shall also comply
with §
150.24(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   Form. Such notice prescribed in division (A) above shall be in
accordance with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code;
      (5)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal; and
      (6)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance with
§
150.99(A)(3) of this chapter.
   (C)   Method of service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served
if a copy thereof is:
      (1)   Delivered personally;
      (2)   Sent by certified or first-class mail addressed to the last known
address; or
      (3)   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by such notice.
   (D)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a
notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer mortgage, lease or
otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the Code Official and shall furnish to the Code Official a signed and
notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee,
acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and
fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections
or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of violation.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   General. When a structure or equipment is found by the Code Official
to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is
found unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of
this code.
      (1)   Unsafe structures. An UNSAFE STRUCTURE is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public and the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants, in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of
such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete
collapse is possible.
      (2)   Unsafe equipment. UNSAFE EQUIPMENT includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to
life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure. The laws of the state shall regulate boilers and pressure vessels
and regulated lifting devices, including moving stairs, heating equipment,
electrical wiring and flammable liquid containers.
      (3)   Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is UNFIT FOR HUMAN
OCCUPANCY whenever the Code Official finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential equipment required by this code, or because the
location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
      (4)   Unlawful structure. An UNLAWFUL STRUCTURE is one found in whole or
in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this code, or was
erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
   (B)   Closing of vacant structures. If the structure is vacant and unfit for
human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse,
the Code Official is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on the
premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive
nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within the time
specified in the order, the Code Official shall cause the premises to be closed
and secured through any available public agency or by contract or arrangement
by private persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against the real
estate upon which the structure is located and shall be certified to the County
Assessor and included on the next real estate tax bill as a lien upon such real
estate and may be collected by any other legal means.
   (C)   Notice. Whenever the Code Official has condemned a structure or
equipment under the provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice and served
on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the structure or
equipment in accordance with §
150.23(C) of this chapter. If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall also
be placed on the condemned equipment. The notice shall be in the form
prescribed in §
150.23(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   Placarding.  
      (1)   General. Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply
with the notice provisions within the time given, the Code Official shall post
on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word
“condemned” and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard.
      (2)   Placard removal. The Code Official shall remove the condemnation
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or
removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the Code Official shall
be subject to the penalties provided by this code.
   (E)   Prohibited occupancy.
      (1)   Any occupied structure condemned and placarded by the Code Official
shall be vacated as ordered by the Code Official.
      (2)   Any person who shall occupy a placarded premises or shall operate
placarded equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises
who shall let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded equipment
shall be liable for the penalties provided by this code.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   Imminent danger. When, in the opinion of the Code Official, there is
imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure which
endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and
life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual
or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any
structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of
toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous
equipment, the Code Official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and
require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The Code Official shall
cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as
follows: “This Structure is Unsafe and its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the
Code Official”. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure,
except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition or of demolishing the same.
   (B)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this code,
whenever, in the opinion of the Code Official, there is imminent danger due to
an unsafe condition, the Code Official shall order the necessary work to be
done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such structure
temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been
instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the Code Official
deems necessary to meet such emergency.
   (C)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the Code Official
shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority having
jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to
unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
   (D)   Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the Code Official
shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as
expeditiously as possible.
   (E)   Costs of emergency repairs. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the
jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of such
costs.
   (F)   Hearing. Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply
with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition
directed to the Board of Appeals, be afforded a hearing as described in this
code.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 DEMOLITION.
   (A)   General. The Code Official shall order the owner of any premises upon
which is located any structure, which, in the Code Official’s judgment, is so
old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and such that
it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to demolish and remove such
structure; or if such structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to
repair and make safe and sanitary or to demolish and remove at the owner’s
option; or, where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any
structure for a period of more than two years, to demolish and remove such
structure.
   (B)   Notices and orders. All notices and orders shall comply with §
150.23 of this chapter.
   (C)   Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order within the time prescribed, the Code Official shall cause the
structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such
demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (D)   Salvage materials. When any structure has been ordered demolished and
removed, the governing body or other designated officer under said contract or
arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable
materials at the highest price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after
deducting the expenses of such demolition and removal, shall be promptly
remitted with a report of such sale or transaction, including the items of
expense and the amounts deducted, for the person who is entitled thereto,
subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned
over, the report shall so state.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 150.27 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Application for appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision of
the Code Official or a notice or order issued under this code shall the right
to appeal to the Board of Appeal; provided that, a written application for
appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the decision, notice, or order was
served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means.
   (B)   Membership of Board. The Board of Appeals shall be the Town Council.
The Code Official shall be an ex-officio member of the Board, but shall have no
vote on any matters before the Board. Any member of the Town Council that has a
personal, professional, and/or financial interest in the appeal before the
Board of Appeals shall abstain themselves from any hearing, discussion, and/or
decision in relation to the appeal.
   (C)   Timing and notice of the meeting. After an appeal is filed, the appeal
shall be heard by the Board during a regularly scheduled Town Council meeting
within 30 days of the appeal having been filed as determined by the President
of the Town Council. Notice of the hearing will be sent to the appellant by
certified mail at least ten days prior to the hearing. Failure of the appellant
to appear for the hearing, after having been served with notice of the same,
shall result in the dismissal of the appeal by the Board. If service has not
been obtained, the Board shall continue the hearing until the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Town Council and will serve the appellant with notice
of the new hearing date by the Police Department.
   (D)   Open hearing.
      (1)   General. All hearings before the Board shall be open to the public.
The appellant, the appellant's representative, the Code Official, and any
person whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
A quorum shall consist of a minimum of three members of the Town Council.
      (2)   Procedure.
         (a)   Any documentation that the appellant and/or the Code Official
would like the Town Council to consider must be provided to the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town to be distributed to the Town Council at least three business days
prior to the Town Council meeting at which the appeal will be heard. Only
information that is relevant to the appeal, as determined by the Board, will be
admitted as part of the appellate procedure.
         (b)   During the hearing, the appellant shall be afforded the
opportunity to present any testimony and/or evidence supporting their position
that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have
been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply,
or the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means. The
appellant and/or anyone testifying on behalf of the appellant may be questioned
by the Town Council and may be cross-examined by the Town Attorney.
         (c)   After the appellant has concluded, the Code Official and the
Town Attorney shall be afforded the opportunity to present any testimony and/or
evidence supporting the position of the town. The Code Official and/or anyone
testifying on behalf of the town may be questioned by the Town Council and may
be cross-examined by the appellant.
   (E)   Postponed hearing. When the full Board is not present to hear an
appeal, either the appellant or the appellant's representative shall have the
right to request a postponement of the hearing until the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Town Council. Appeals may only be postponed one time.
   (F)   Board decision. The Board shall affirm, modify, or reverse the
decision of the Code Official only by a concurring vote of a majority of the
total number of Board members. The Board may make its decision at the same
meeting at the conclusion of the hearing or may take the matter under
advisement and make its decision at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Town Council.
      (1)   Records and copies. The decision of the Board shall be recorded in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town. Copies shall be furnished to the
appellant and to the Code Official.
      (2)   Administration. The Code Official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the Board. Decisions of the Board may be
appealable to the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission if
said violations involve the rules of the Commission.
   (G)   Court review. The appellant shall have the right to apply to either
Franklin County Circuit Court for a writ of certiorari to correct errors of
law. Application for review shall be made in the manner and time required by
law following the timely filing of the decision in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town.
   (H)   Stays of enforcement. Appeals of notice and orders (other than
imminent danger notices) shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order
until the appeal is heard and decided by the Board. Timely filed applications
for review by either Franklin County Circuit Court shall stay the enforcement
of the notice and order until the application for review is heard and decided
by the court.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 2023-14,
passed 10-16-2023)
*** MINIMUM CONDITIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES ***
§ 150.40 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures,
equipment and exterior property.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the
structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except
as otherwise provided for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner-
occupant or permit another person to occupy premises which are not in a
sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply with the requirements of
this chapter. Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit
are responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part
of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises which they
occupy and control.
   (C)   Vacant structures and land. All vacant structures and premises thereof
or vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary
condition as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or
adversely affect the public health or safety.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property and premises shall be maintained in
a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the
exterior property which such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water
thereon, or within any structure located thereon.
Exception: approved retention areas and reservoirs.
   (C)   Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways,
parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and
maintained free from hazardous conditions.
   (D)   Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property shall be kept
free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall
be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to
eliminate rodent harborage and prevent re-infestation.
   (E)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
   (F)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair.
   (G)   Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations, no
inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any
premises, and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly,
disrepair or in the process of being stripped or dismantled. Painting of
vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray booth.
Exception: a vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work; provided that, such work is performed inside a structure
or similarly enclosed area designed for such purposes.
   (H)   Defacement of property. No person shall willfully or wantonly damage,
mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any
private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an
approved state of maintenance and repair.
   (I)   Storage.
      (1)   No portion of any yard shall be used for the permanent storage of
licensed, unlicensed and/or inoperable motor vehicles, recreational vehicles,
travel trailers, campers, mobile homes, trailers, airplanes, boats, parts
thereof, rubbish, garbage, junk, tent or building materials, except during
permitted construction, and/or any restricted vehicles as listed in §
70.026(B) Definitions, of the Town of Brookville Traffic Code.
      (2)   Permanent storage for purposes of this subsection shall be
construed as the presence of such storage for a period of ten or more
consecutive days.
      (3)   Shipping containers.
         (a)   The usage of shipping containers (cargo) (freight) as permanent
storage is strictly prohibited on any portion of real property in all
residential zoning districts within the town.
         (b)   In all other zoning districts, the placement of any shipping
containers (cargo) (freight) requires the issuance of a variance authorizing
the placement which is subject to the approval of the Town Council. Adjoining
property owners will be notified of the variance request via certified mail and
be given an opportunity to address the Town Council prior to the issuance of
said variance. The variance application shall cost $25 and the applicant will
also be responsible for the cost of notifying the adjoining property owners by
certified mail. If the variance is granted, the shipping containers may only be
placed on gravel, concrete, and/or blacktop driveways and/or patios.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 2019-6,
passed 7-23-2019; Ord. 2025-19, passed 11-17-2025) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.42 SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS.
   (A)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition, and in good repair.
   (B)   Enclosures. See Indiana Swimming Pool Code at 675 IAC 20.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.43 EXTERIOR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
   (B)   Protective treatment. All exterior surfaces, including but not limited
to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks
and fences shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other
than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by
painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and
chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and
masonry joints as well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter
of windows, doors and skylights shall be maintained weather- resistant and
water-tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to
inhibit such rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall
be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains
shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
   (C)   Premises identification. Buildings shall have approved address numbers
placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road
fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be
a minimum of four inches (102 mm) high with a minimum stroke width of one-half
inch (12.7 mm).
   (D)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
   (E)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   (F)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks
and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weather-proof and properly
surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
   (G)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
   (H)   Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (I)   Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions including, but not
limited to canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes
and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored
so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   (J)   Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (K)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (L)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (M)   Window, skylight and door frames. Every window, skylight, door and
frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather-tight.
      (1)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks
and holes.
      (2)   Openable windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be
easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
   (N)   Insect screens. Any screens used at any time in a door, window or
other outside opening for ventilation shall be maintained with tightly fitting
screens with no rips or tears.
   (O)   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition. Approved locking devices at all entrances to
dwelling units and sleeping units shall tightly secure the door.
   (P)   Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
   (Q)   Guards for basement windows. Every basement window that is openable
shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
   (R)   Building security. Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units,
room units or housekeeping units shall be provided with approved devices
designed to provide security for the occupants and property within.
   (S)   Windows. Operable windows located in whole or in part within six feet
(1,828 mm) above ground level or a walking surface below that provide access to
a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or
let shall be equipped with a window sash locking device.
   (T)   Basement hatchways. Basement hatchways that provide access to a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let
shall be equipped with devices that secure the units from unauthorized entry.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.44 INTERIOR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
Occupants shall keep that part of the structure which they occupy or control in
a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure containing a rooming
house, housekeeping units, a hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or
two or more non-residential occupancies, shall maintain, in a clean and
sanitary condition, the shared or public areas of the structure and exterior
property.
   (B)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained
structurally sound, and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (C)   Interior surfaces. All interior surfaces, including windows and doors,
shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping,
flaking or abraded paint shall be repaired, removed or covered. Cracked or
loose plaster, decayed wood and other defective surface conditions shall be
corrected.
   (D)   Stairs and walking surfaces. Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony,
porch, deck or other walking surface shall be maintained in sound condition and
good repair.
   (E)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (F)   Interior doors. Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within
its frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being properly and
securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacturer
of the attachment hardware.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.45 HANDRAILS AND GUARDRAILS.
   See the Rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission and
state statutes.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.46 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property and
premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any
accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
   (B)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved
containers.
      (1)   Rubbish storage facilities. The owner of every occupied premises
shall supply approved covered containers for rubbish, and the owner of the
premises shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
      (2)   Refrigerators. Refrigerators and similar equipment not in operation
shall not be discarded, abandoned or stored on premises without first removing
the doors.
      (3)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an approved
garbage disposal facility or approved garbage containers.
   (C)   Garbage facilities. The owner of every dwelling shall supply one of
the following: an approved mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling unit;
an approved incinerator unit in the structure available to the occupants in
each dwelling unit; or an approved leak-proof, covered, outside garbage
container.
   (D)   Containers. The operator of every establishment that produces garbage
shall provide, and at all times cause to be utilized, approved leak-proof
containers provided with close-fitting covers for the storage of such materials
until removed from the premises for disposal.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.47 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Infestation. All structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
   (B)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
extermination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   (C)   Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-
tenant non- residential structure shall be responsible for extermination on the
premises.
   (D)   Multiple occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a non-residential
structure shall be responsible for extermination in the public or shared areas
of the structure and exterior property. If infestation is caused by failure of
an occupant to prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the occupant
shall be responsible for extermination.
   (E)   Occupant. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the
continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure. Exception: where the
infestations are caused by defects in the structure, the owner shall be
responsible for extermination.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or
corporation to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
this code.
      (2)   Notice of violation. The Code Official shall serve a notice of
violation or order in accordance with §
150.23 of this chapter.
      (3)   Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to comply with a
notice of violation or order served in accordance with §
150.23 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor or civil
infraction as determined by the local municipality, and the violation shall be
deemed a strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied
with, the Code Official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal
or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto. Any
action taken by the town on such premises shall be charged against the real
estate upon which the structure is located and shall be certified to the County
Assessor and included on the next real estate tax bill as a lien upon such real
estate.
      (4)   Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of
this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by state or local laws.
Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served in
accordance with §
150.23 of this chapter and a reasonable amount of time for repairs or
improvements has passed, as stated in §
150.23 of this chapter, notice shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (5)   Abatement of violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction of non-
instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an
illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or
premises.
   (B)   Penalties for non-compliance with orders and notices shall be as set
forth as follows:
      (1)   One hundred dollar fine for the first day after the reasonable time
set forth in the notice provided in accordance with §
150.23(B) of this chapter has passed; and
      (2)   One hundred dollar fine for each subsequent day.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2-2013, passed 8-6-2013)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
151.01   Comprehensive Plan adoption
   
151.02   Building permits
   
151.03   Flood protection; review of building permit applications; criteria for
development in flood hazard areas
   
151.04   Review of subdivision and development proposals
   
151.05   Water and sewage systems
   
151.06   National Electrical Code adopted; standards for electric wiring
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTION.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the “Comprehensive Plan to the Town of
Brookville, Indiana”. This Plan is adopted by reference herein and incorporated
herein as if set out in full. A copy of the Comprehensive Plan is attached to
the resolution codified herein.
(Res. 2-2001, passed 12-26-2001; Res. 2014-4, passed 10-28-2014; Res. 2014-5,
passed 10-31-2014; Res. 2025-2, passed 2-18-2025)
§ 151.02 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Required; application; review by Council; refusal. Any person owning
real estate in the town, deciding to construct or alter any existing or
contemplated building or improvement on his or her real estate, including, but
not limited to, the building of any structure, the excavation for any
structure, the razing of any structure and the construction of any other types
of any improvements such as sidewalks, gutters, driveways and drains, shall
apply for a building permit to be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer, upon advice of
the Council. Such application shall be made in triplicate and filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer upon forms to be provided by the Clerk-Treasurer, with the fee
as hereinafter provided, together with diagrams, maps, sketches or blueprints
showing the nature of the proposed improvements. Before filing any such
application, the applicant must make showing to the Clerk-Treasurer that his or
her proposed construction has first been approved and a permit issued for such
contemplated construction by the County Planning and Zoning Commission, if the
planning and zoning laws so require; and until such permit is obtained from
such Planning and Zoning Commission, no such application may be filed. Upon
application, such application will be referred to the next regular meeting of
the Council for action thereon; provided that, if the next regular meeting
occurs more than ten days from the filing of an application, a special meeting
of the Council shall be called for the purpose of considering such application.
In case of any refusal of such building permit by the Council, the land owner
shall be notified in writing of the reason or reasons therefor and shall be
given an opportunity to appear and protest such refusal at a special meeting of
the Council to be held within ten days after such refusal. Notice of such
special meeting shall be given to the land owner seeking to make such protest.
A building permit shall not be required for the renovation of an interior of
any structure not affecting sewer or water lines within or without such
structure.
(1980 Code, § 4-1)
   (B)   Fee. The fee mentioned in division (A) above shall be $2, payable when
the application is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer. Such fee shall cover all
fees for filing of such application and inspection of the construction, and for
any amending permits that may be necessary due to changes in such construction
during construction.
(1980 Code, § 4-3)
   (C)   Enforcement officer; certification of compliance. The enforcement and
supervision of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Town Waterworks
Superintendent, whose duty it will be to inspect all premises where
construction occurs and report to the Council as to variances in construction
from the application which may occur, and who shall certify, when the
construction is complete, that such construction conforms with the application
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1980 Code, § 4-4)
   (D)   Term; extension. All building permits issued by the town shall be
valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance. The permit holder may
petition the Town Council to extend the permit for an additional period of one
year if good cause is shown by the permit holder and the Town Council approves
said extension. Under no circumstances shall building permits be valid for any
length of time greater than two total years.
(Ord. 4-1969, passed - -1969; Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 151.03 FLOOD PROTECTION; REVIEW OF BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATIONS; CRITERIA FOR
DEVELOPMENT IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The Council shall review all building permit applications for new
construction or substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building
sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   If a proposed building site is in a location that has a flood hazard,
any proposed new construction or substantial improvements, including
prefabricated and mobile homes, must:
      (1)   Be designed and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of structure;
      (2)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage; and
      (3)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(1980 Code, § 4-5) (Ord. passed 1-28-1975)
§ 151.04 REVIEW OF SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS.
   The Council shall review subdivision proposals and other proposed new
developments to assure that:
   (A)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
   (B)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage; and
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazard.
(1980 Code, § 4-6) (Ord. passed 1-28-1975)
§ 151.05 WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   The Council shall require new or replacement water supply systems and/or
sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
flood waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters
and require on-site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid
impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding.
(1980 Code, § 4-7) (Ord. passed 1-28-1975)
§ 151.06 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED; STANDARD FOR ELECTRIC WIRING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the limits of the town to
have or keep for use or to use or have installed in his or her new dwelling
house or outhouse or cellar or about his or her premises any electric wires or
whatever without having such wire or wires properly insulated and installed in
such manner as to prevent fires from such wires. Any person being the owner of
any building which is being remodeled or of any new building erected within the
limits of the town shall have such building inspected by a competent
electrician within ten days after the completion of such electric wiring and,
if such wiring is not found to be up to the standard of the rules and
regulations of the current edition of the National Electrical Code, which are
hereby adopted as the standards for electrical construction and maintenance,
such owner shall be at once notified and such wiring shall be changed so as to
conform to such code.
(1980 Code, § 4-8)
   (B)   (1)   All service wires located inside of a building or attached to
same, except in power stations and substations, must be installed in continuous
lengths of rigid metal conduits and be equippped with the proper conduit
fittings.
      (2)   All knife switches, except on approved switchboards and power
boards, must be of the approved safety enclosed type, designed to be operated
from the outside of the enclosure and so it can be locked in the off position.
      (3)   All safety enclosed switches must be so marked as to indicate
without opening the enclosure whether the current is off or on and all service
entrance switches must be so mounted as to be readily accessible to the use of
firefighters, police and other public officials.
      (4)   On all installations having four or more circuits, the service
wires coming into the building must be three wires, 110 to 220 volts, and the
service switch must be a three-pole safety switch.
(1980 Code, § 4-9)
   (C)   For the purpose of investigation, the electricians appointed by the
Council shall have the right and duty to enter any new building in the course
of erection or any old buildings being remodeled for the sole purpose of making
an inspection of the electric wiring, and such electricians shall charge and
collect from the owner a fee of $1 for making such inspection.
(1980 Code, § 4-10)
(Ord. passed 3-13-1922) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any land owner who shall begin construction or shall permit such
construction without applying for and first obtaining a building permit, or who
shall change or alter his or her plans after obtaining such permit to a
material extent without reconsideration by the Council, shall be deemed in
violation of this chapter and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than
$10, nor less than $1, per day for each and every day such land owner remains
in violation of this chapter.
(1980 Code, § 4-2)
   (C)   On conviction of failure to comply with the orders given, as per §
151.06(A) of this chapter, he or she shall be fined in any sum not more than
$10.
(1980 Code, § 4-8)
(Ord. 4-1969, passed - -1969)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   County regulations adopted by reference
§ 152.01 COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town adopts the county’s flood damage prevention provisions. These
provisions are adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in
full.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 6-28-2005; Ord. 4-2013, passed 10-8-2013)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Adoption of code and amendments
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF CODE AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted to the town under I.C. 36-7-2 and
I.C. 36-7-4, the regulation and administration of real property zoning and
subdivision matters within the municipal boundaries of the town shall be
pursuant to the Franklin County Citizens Zoning and Subdivision Control Code
(the "code"); however, the code shall not apply within the municipal boundaries
of the town to real property that is owned and maintained by the town and real
property owned and maintained by the town is specifically exempted therefrom.
   (B)   The authority to administer and enforce the code as to real property
within the municipal boundaries of the town, excluding real property owned and
maintained by the town, is delegated to the Franklin County Planning, Zoning,
and Building Department as well as to the Franklin County Area Plan Commission
and the Franklin County Board of Zoning Appeals; however, nothing in this
section is intended to limit the town's statutory authority to regulate real
property within its municipal boundaries.
   (C)   Amendments to the code that have been adopted and subsequently
approved by the town are as follows:
Zoning/ Subdivision Amended/Deleted Text 1980 Code Section Ord. No. Date Passed
Section
Zoning/                                                                                          1980    Ord.  Date
Subdivision Amended/Deleted Text                                                                 Code    No.   Passed
Section                                                                                          Section
            Add text:                                                                                          10-24-
-           “1. $60.00 for zoning books with a set of zoning maps.                                     -     1995
            2. $30.00 for a set of zoning maps.”
            Zoning code designations for the unincorporated areas of Franklin County and the
            incorporated Town of Laurel remain as stated. The designation of an (I) after the            4-    7-12-
            existing zoning designations will serve to identify the designated Towns (all                2011  2011
-           incorporated towns within Franklin County, with the exception of Laurel). For                1-    6-26-
            example, A-1 shall refer to Prime Agriculture within the unincorporated portions of          2012  201 2
            Franklin County and the Town of Laurel, while A-1 (I) shall refer to the
            Incorporated Towns of Brookville, Cedar Grove, Mt. Carmel and Oldenburg.
            Airport(Commercial): Delete e.
            Artificial Lake of Three (3) or More Acres: Add:
            “c. Minimal distance of bottom of dam to property line: 100 ft”
            Building Material Supply or Storage Yard: Add: “g. Landscape Screening when property
            adjoins residential: Level 2”
            Bulk Fuel Storage or Petroleum Tank Farm-(Commercial): Add f. Landscape Screening
            when property -adjoins residential: Level 2
            Class I Child Care Homes and Class II Child Care Homes: b. Add: “A-l, A-2, RE/7 and
            remove I-1.”
            Development Disabilities Residential Facilities: Delete; “I.C. 16-10-2.1 and I.C.”
            Add: “(or the most updated requirements).”
            Health Facility, Residential (Nursing Home): b. Zones Permitted: Delete "1-1" and
            "1-2"                                                                                        2018- 12-11-
-           Outdoor Commercial Enterprise (including Recreational Enterprises): d. change                6     2018
            maximum height “35 feet”
            Outdoor Theater: c. change Rear- to “75” Feet and d. change “2”
            Restricted Commercial Farm Enterprise, Delete
            School, Private or Special: b. Delete “I-2”
            School, Educational Institution: b. Delete “I-2”
            Slaughter House: g. change “1” to “2”
            Temporary Storage for Disabled Vehicles: add “c. Minimum Lot Area: 1 acre, d.
            Minimum yards 20 feet all sides, e. Landscape Screening Level 2.”
            Veterinary Hospital or Clinic for Small Animals: a. change “1” to “3,” and delete
            “Allowed With Permit Ordinance # 2011-24.”
            Wholesale Produce Terminal or Truck Freight Terminal: g. change “1” to “2.”
            Welding Shop; Delete “Visual Screen must be provided” and replace with “Landscape
            Screening: Level 2.”
            Amending the definition of a “Development Plan”:
            Development Plan: Specific plans for the residential, commercial, or industrial
            development or other development of property setting forth certain information and
            data required by the Plan Commission. This information and data includes:
               a.   The-proposed name of the development;
               b.   The name and address of developers;
               c.   The location by public way, township, and section;
               d.   The legal description;
               e.   A map including date, scale, and point north, location, size, capacity,
            description [Ex: brick, pole barn etc) and use of all buildings and structures
            existing or to be placed in the development;
               f.   The nature and intensity of the operations involved in or conducted in
            connection with the development;
               g.   The site layout of the development including the location, size,
            arrangement, and capacity of area to be used for vehicular access, parking, loading,         2018- 12-11-
-           and unloading;                                                                               11    2018
               h.   The name of public ways giving access to the development and location,
            width, and names of platted public ways, railroads, parks, utility easements, and
            other public open spaces;
               i.   The layout of proposed public ways, their names, and widths, and the widths
            of alleys, walkways, paths, lanes, and easements;
               j.    A description of the use of adjacent property and an identification of that
            property;
               k.   The location, size, and arrangement of areas to be devoted to planting
            lawns, trees, and other site-screening activities;
               l.   The proposals for sewer or septic, water, gas, electricity, storm drainage,
            lights, and signage;
               m.   The contours with spot elevations of the finished grade and the directions
            of storm runoff;
               n.   The layout of proposed lots with their numbers and dimensions; and
               o.   The land use Intensity factors
-           Adopting Franklin County Stormwater Management to the Franklin County Citizens               2024- 12-16-
            Zoning Code.                                                                                 23    2024
            Replacing the figures “20,000" with “-43,560 (1 acre)” under the headings “Minimum   4-    - -
Figure 1    Lot Area” and “Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit” and opposite “R-1 Single-family   1989  1989
            and Two-family Residence (District)”.
            Amended to read:
4-19(a)     “No structure other than a fence may be erected and, if erected in violation of thi15-1    -     5-17-
            section, no such structure may be used, if the location of the structure is within                 196 5
            twenty-five feet of the normal bank of any stream shown on the zone map.”
            80.01 TITLE AND ESTABLISHMENT C. EXEMPTIONS
            1. FARM EXEMPTION. Where agriculture is pursued for commercial gain, farming
            operations are exempt from the restrictions and regulations of the building code.
            This exemption for farms does not apply to farm houses and farm dwellings which
80.01       include dwelling for the farm owner, operator or farm assistants. Barns and other            2023- 3-2-
            agricultural buildings are still subject to zoning and flood plain requirements, but         2     2023
            are exempt from the Building Code pursuant to Indiana law. Barns and agriculture
            buildings shall still require an Improvement Location Permit to ensure that the
            structure is actually for purely agriculture use and that it complies with all
            zoning requirements (including setbacks) and flood plain requirements.
                                                                                                         4-    7-12-
80.01(C)(2  Remove from code                                                                             2011  2011
)                                                                                                        1-    6-26-
                                                                                                         2012  2012
80.02(E)    Insert the word “usually” following “month,” and before “on the”. “The APC and 5-    7-26-
            meets once a month, “usually” on the second Wednesday.”                                2016  2016
            A-l Prime Agriculture:
            “This district covers portions of the county where the soil types are most
            conductive to agricultural operations and is intended to protect and encourage               2018- 12-11-
80.03.01    agricultural uses of land by controlling indiscriminate development of urban type            7     2018
            uses. Residences are permitted, however all types of agricultural uses or uses akin
            to agricultural operations are permitted, either outright or by conditional uses,
            depending upon their impact to neighboring uses.”
80.03.01    Amend Section 80.03.01 as specifically stated in Ord. 2024-2.                                2024- 2-5-
                                                                                                         2     2024
            A-2 Secondary Agriculture:
            “This district is located generally in areas of less suitable farmlands where
80.03.02    residential subdivisions either have taken place or are anticipated to do so.                2018- 12-11-
            Residences are permitted however, all types of agriculture uses or uses akin to              7     2018
            agricultural operations may be permitted, either outright or by conditional use,
            depending upon the impact upon neighboring uses.”
            RE Recreational:
            “The recreational district includes areas used primarily for recreation and
            residences. The topography is often steep and tree covered, with creeks and streams
            feeding the late. This district includes Brookville Lake, parcels owned by the               2018- 12-11-
80.03.03    United States government and privately owned parcels, many of them small. The RE             7     2018
            District is primarily suited for tourism related development, recreational
            activities, residences and traditional agriculture. Permitted and conditional uses
            should conform to this definition either outright or by conditional use depending
            upon the impact or neighboring uses.”
80.03.04    Amend Section 80.03.04 as specifically stated in Ord. 2024-2.                                2024- 2-5-
                                                                                                         2     2024
            Amended to clarify:                                                                          4-    7-12-
80.03.04(B  “to require a minimum of 1,000.00 square feet for the ground floor of a home               2011  2011
)(2)        consisting of two or more stories, while keeping the total minimum square footage            1-    6-26-
            for all floors at 1440.”                                                                   2012  2012
80.03.05    Amend Section 80.03.05 as specifically stated in Ord. 2024-2.                                2024- 2-5-
                                                                                                         2     2024
80.03.06    Amend Section 80.03.06 as specifically stated in Ord. 2024-2.                                2024- 2-5-
                                                                                                         2     2024
            Amended for clarification purposes. Specifically, the language “no sewer utilized”       4-    7-12-
            shall be replaced by “no public sewage system is utilized” and the language “sewer     2011  2011
            utilized” would be replaced by “public sewage system is utilized”.                     1-    6-26-
                                                                                                         2012  201 2
            Further, under Multi-Family Dwellings, there needs to be a distinction between
            minimum lot area depending upon whether a public sewage system is utilized or not.
            Thus, that section shall be amended to clarify that a minimum lot size of 9,000.00
            square feet is required for the first 3 units and an additional 1,500 square feet
80.03.06(B  shall be required for each additional unit where public sewage is utilized. Further,
)(1)        a minimum lot size of 18,000.00 square feet shall be required for the first 3 units
            and an additional 3,000 square feet shall be required for each additional unit where
            no public sewage is utilized.
            Further, that 80.03.06(B)(1) of the current code be amended to state that the square
            footage for two family homes, where no public sewage system is utilized, be
            20,000.00 square feet. (The Towns had previously voted to amend the 20,000.00 to
            12,000.00 but after consulting with the area plan and health department, believe
            that it needs to be changed back to 20,000.00 as set forth in the County’s original
            amendments.)
80.03.07    Amend Section 80.03.07 as specifically stated in Ord. 2024-2.                                2024- 2-5-
                                                                                                         2     2024
80.03.09    Planned Business District; A. Permitted Uses: Add “business” to last sentence:           2021- 11-9-
            “...all applications for any “business” use in the P-B District shall...”            23    2021
            I-1 Enclosed Industrial District:
            (B)   Other Requirements for the I-1 District
               1.   Minimum Lot Size: Two (2) acres
               2.   Minimum Ground Floor Area (sq/ft):
                  Industrial Uses: Total floor area of enclosed industrial building or buildings
            shall not exceed sixty percent (60%) of the lot area.
               3.   Minimum Lot Width: 150 ft
80.03.10       4.   Minimum Set Backs:                                                             2018- 12-11-
                  Where sewer present:                                                             9     2018
                     Front: 30 ft* (100 ft**)
                     Rear: 30 ft (150 ft**)
                     Side: 15 ft (150 ft**)
                  Where No sewer is present:
                     Industrial Use: Uses are considered a Conditional Use. See § 80.06.04 for
            specific requirements.
               5.   Yard Requirements: See Section 80.08.03
               6.   Landscape Screening: See Section 80.08.10 for Level 2 Landscape Screening
               7.   Maximum Building Height: See Section 80.08.04
               8.   Parking: See Section 80.08.06
               9.   Sign Requirements: See Section 80.05.09
               10.   If any of the above requirements are more restrictive under Section
            80.06.04, Specific Conditional Uses then those greater restrictions shall be
            followed.
               11.   When used for Agricultural Use: See requirements for A-1.
               When used for Residential Use: Match all requirements for the zone of the closest
            property with residential use.
            *   Front setbacks shall be measured from the edge of roadway or street. However, if
            said roadway or street has an established right-of-way, the front setback shall be
            measured from the right-of-way line.
            **   Denotes setback when property adjoins an Agriculture or Residential Zone.
            Remain as stated for the County and the Town of Laurel. However, within the                  4-    7-12-
80.03.10I-  designated Towns, single family and manufactured homes will only be permitted if             2011  2011
1           they meet the specifications for R-3 zoning requirements.                                    1-    6-26-
                                                                                                         2012  2012
            I-2 Open Industrial District:
            (B)   Other Requirements for the I-2 District
               1.   Minimum Lot Size: 5 acres
               2.   Minimum Ground Floor Area (sq/ft):
                  Industrial Uses: Total floor area of enclosed industrial building or buildings
            shall not exceed eighty percent (80%) of the lot area.
               3.   Minimum Lot Width: 250 ft
               4.   Minimum Set Backs:
                     Where sewer present:
                        Front: 30 ft* (100 ft**)
                        Rear: 30 ft (150 ft**)                                               2018- 12-11-
80.03.11                Side: 15 ft (150 ft**)                                               9     2018
                     Where No sewer is present:
                        Industrial Use: Uses are considered a Conditional Use. See section
            80.06.04 for specific requirements.
               5.   Required Yards: See Section 80.08.03
               6.   Landscape Screening: See Section 80.08.10 for Level 2 Landscape Screening
               7.   Maximum Building Height: See Section 80.08.04
               8.   Parking: See Section 80.08.06
               9.   Sign Requirements: See Section 80.05.09
               10.   If any of the above requirements are more restrictive under Section
            80.06.04, Specific Conditional Uses then those greater restrictions shall be
            followed.
            *   Front setbacks shall be measured from the edge of a roadway or street. However,
            if said roadway or street has an established right-of-way, the front setback shall
            be measured from the Right-of-Way line.
            **   Denotes setback when property adjoins an Agriculture or Residential Zone.
80.03.15    Adopting Section 80.03.15 as specifically stated in Ord. 2024-7.                             2024- -
                                                                                                         7
            Specifically; the proposed amendment is as follows:
            SECTION 80.03.16: A-AES AGRICULTURE ALTERNATE ENERGY SYSTEM DISTRICT
            For the purpose of sound and efficient management of all agricultural land in
            Franklin County and to allow Alternate Energy Systems in agricultural areas in a
            regulated manner, all A-AES regulations, specifications, or standards covered by
80.03.16    this Ordinance are hereby made identical to those of the A-l district.                       2021- 5-25-
            (A)   Permitted Uses                                                                      7     2021
               (1)   Wherever in Ordinance "A-l" is mentioned, those specifications also apply
            to the "A-AES" district with the exception of Conditional Uses.
               (2)   Only the Conditional Uses set for in SECTION 80.06.06 - COMMERCIAL AND
            INTERMEDIATE ALTERNATE ENERGY SYSTEMS shall be allowed in A-AES, subject to
            appropriate Class 3 Conditional Use approvals.
80.03.16    Amend Section 80.03.16 as specifically stated in Ord. 2025-01.                               2025- 1-22-
                                                                                                         01    2025
80.03.16    Update Section 80.03.16 as specifically stated in Ord. 2025-13.                              2025- 6-16-
                                                                                                         13    2025
80.04.03(C  Change reference from “80.11.07” to “80.11.07(C)(1)(a)”.                             5-    7-26-
)                                                                                                        2016  2016
            Remain as stated for the unincorporated portions of Franklin County [hereinafter
            referred to as the County] and the Town of Laurel. However, the Towns of Brookville,
            Cedar Grove, Mt. Carmel and Oldenburg [hereinafter referred to as the designated
            Towns] should be treated differently with regard to permit requirements before the           4-    7-12-
80.05.02    installation and/or construction of certain improvements within the designated               2011  2011
            Towns. As such, within the designated Towns, a permit from the Town in which the             1-    6-26-
            installation and/or construction is to occur, shall be required before installing            2012  2012
            any driveways, patios, curbs, drainage devices, walks, retaining walls, storage
            sheds over 150 square feet, green houses over 150 square feet, or any other
            structures over 150 square feet.
            2b - Delete entire section.
            2c - Change “5 ft” to be “4 ft”.
            Insert “5.1 All above ground swimming pools with a minimum of 48 inch high or
            greater side walls shall be excluded from the fencing provision in paragraph (c)             6-    8-9-
80.05.03    above, if it has a removable ladder which can be removed and locked or secured to            2016  2016
            prevent access by unintended intruders. The location shall meet all of the other
            requirements herein. These types of swimming pools shall be installed in accordance
            with all other state, federal laws and NFPA for electrical safety standards. Ladders
            must be removed or secured when not in use or left unattended.”
            Specifically the proposed amendments are as follows:
            80.05.04: PETS AND DOMESTICATED ANIMALS
            A.   Household Pets
               1.   Allowed Without Permit. Household pets are domestic animals, generally, dogs
            or cats that are kept inside the home or in the yard. It also includes rodents,
            reptiles, and fowl that are generally caged inside the home. These animals are kept
            for pleasure and not for profit. The keeping of household pets, provided it is not           2022- 3-15-
80.05.04    construed as a kennel, is allowed without permit.                                            8     2022
               2.   Requirements for keeping of domestic pets:
                  a.   Indoor Pets. Eight (8) is the limit of pets kept inside. (1) -
            Brookville, Cedar Grove, Mt. Carmel and Oldenburg; Within the designated Towns,
            there shall be permitted no more than seven (7) indoor pets in any residence.
            (Ordinance #1-2022, passed on 6/26/2012)
                  b.   Outdoor Pets. Outdoor Pets are limited to eight (8). Pets shall not
            become a nuisance to neighbors as a result of roaming.
            Remain as stated for the County and the Town of Laurel. However, within the                  4-    7-12-
80.05.04(A  designated Towns, there shall be permitted no more than seven (7) indoor pets in any         2011  2011
)(2)(a)     residence.                                                                                   1-    6-26-
                                                                                                         2012  2012
80.05.04(A  Delete the reference to Section80.08.01(Nuisance laws) and replacing with reference          5-    7-26-
)(2)(c)     to “Ordinance 2004-10 (Small animal control ordinance)”.                                 2016  2016
            Remain as stated for the County and the Town of Laurel. However, within the                  4-    7-12-
80.05.05(A  designated Towns, rummage, garage, and yard sales shall be permitted without permit          2011  2011
)           provided that there are not more than two (2) such sales annually per residence or           1-    6-26-
            premises with each sale not lasting more than two (2) days in duration.                      2012  2012
                                                                                                         4-    7-12-
80.05.07(C  Remove and the current 80.05.07(D) should be renamed as 80.05.07(C).                         2011  2011
)                                                                                                        1-    6-26-
                                                                                                         2012  2012
            Remain as stated for the County and the Town of Laurel. However, within the                  4-    7-12-
            designated Towns, Home Businesses shall be regulated by the language of 80.36 of the         2011  2011
80.05.08    Area Zoning Code (pre-modification language) regarding Home Businesses. This permits         1-    6-26-
            the Towns to have additional restrictions that are not applicable in the County and          2012  2012
            the Town of Laurel.
            Remain as stated for the County and the Town of Laurel. However, within the                  4-    7-12-
            designated Towns, signs shall be regulated by the language of 80.38 of the Area              2011  2011
80.05.09    Zoning Code (pre-modification language) regarding Signs. This permits the designated         1-    6-26-
            Towns to have additional restrictions that are not applicable in the County and the          2012  2012
            Town of Laurel.
80.05.10    E. - Change “5 ft” to “4 ft”.                                                        6-    8-9-
            Insert E.1. “For above ground pool exception see 80.05.03(5.1)”.                         2016  2016
80.06.02(A  Add “For definition of “site plan” see 80.11.04(A)(2). All items (a) through (j) are   5-    7-26-
)(1)        included in the site plan.                                                                   2016  2016
            5.   Insert; No conditional use shall be granted unless the Area Plan Commission and
            Board of Zoning Appeals shall find;
               a.   That the establishment, maintenance, or operation of the conditional use
            will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, or genera!
            welfare;
               b.   That the conditional use will not be injurious to other properties in the
            immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted, nor substantially diminish            2018- 12-11-
80.06.03    and impair property values within the general area;                                          5     2018
               c.   That the establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal and
            orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses permitted
            in the district;
               d.   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and necessary facilities
            have been or are being provided;
               e.   That adequate measures have been or will be taken or provide ingress and
            egress to designed as to minimize traffic congestion in public streets.
            Approval Process for Class 3 Conditional Uses: Permitted by Hearing:
            E.   Wherever “APC” is indicated replace with “Board of Zoning Appeals”
            F.   Add “BZA” where “APC” is indicated.                                          2018- 12-11-
80.06.03    I.   Replace “APC” with “BZA” at the end of last sentence                         12    2018
            J.   Alterations Allowed 1, Add “BZA” where “APC” is indicated and “See 80.06.03:
            Approval Process for Class 3 Conditional Use: Permit by Hearing.”
            J.   Alterations Allowed. 2; Delete
80.06.03(A  Add “For definition of “site plan” see 80.11.04(A)(2). All items (a) through (j) are   5-    7-26-
)(1)        included in the site plan.                                                                   2016  2016
            Remain as stated for the County and the Town of Laurel. However, within the                  4-    7-12-
            designated Towns, all Specific Conditional Uses set forth under 80.06.04, shall be           2011  2011
80.06.04    designated Class 3, requiring an Improvement Location Permit from the Town in which          1-    6-26-
            the Conditional Use is requested, and the approval process as set forth under                2012  2012
            80.06.03, including, but not limited to, the requirement for a public hearing.
80.06.04    Delete “Tourist Home” from third item.                                                   5-    7-26-
                                                                                                         2016  2016
            Firehouse:
            For the storage and dispatch of Fire, EMS, and other emergency apparatus.
               a.   Approval process: Class 2, permit by Executive Decision.
80.06.04       b.   Zones permitted: All.                                                          5-    7-26-
               c.   Minimum lot size same as base zone                                             2016  2016
               d.   Minimum setback same as base zone.
               e.   Tornado warning devices allowed.
               f.   Emergency lighting allowed.
            Specific Conditional Uses:
            Mobile Home park remove I-1 as Zone Permitted.
            Municipal, County or Government Building remove I-1 and I-2 as Zones Permitted.              2018- 12-11-
80.06.04    Private Club or Lodge of a Non-Commercial Character remove I-1 as a Zone Permitted.          5     2018
            Recreational Vehicle Park remove I-1 and I-2 as Zones Permitted.
            Seasonal Hunting and Fishing Lodge (Commercial) remove I-1 as Zone Permitted.
            Seasonal Hunting and Fishing Lodge (Private) remove I-1 as Zone Permitted.
            Amend to read:
            Section 80.06.04, Restricted Commercial Farm Enterprise (including CAFOs & CFOs).
            Restricted Commercial Farm Enterprise (including CAFOs & CFOs):
            a.   Approval Process: Class 3, Permitted by Hearing
            b.   Zones Permitted: A-l, A-2, 1-1 & 1-2
80.06.04    f.   Maximum Height of Structure: 35 feet                                                 2018- 12-11-
            g.   Minimum Distance: IAC 19-12-3: Setbacks                                              8     2018
            Authority: I.C. 13-14-8; I.C. 13-15-2-1; I.C. 13-18-10-4
            Affected: IC 13-15; IC 13-18-10; IC 13-30
            Sec. 3.(a)   Waste management systems must be located to maintain the minimum
            setback distances from the following features that are known and identifiable at the
            time an application is submitted for approval:
            (1)   One thousand (1,000) feet from a public water supply well or public water
            supply surface intake structure.
            (2)   Except for subsection (c), three hundred (300) feet from the following:
               (A)   Surface water.
               (B)   Drainage inlets, including water and sediment control basins.
               (C)   Sinkholes, as measured from the surficial opening or the lowest point of
            the feature.
               (D)   Off-site water wells.
            (3)   One hundred (100) feet from the following:
               (A)   On-site water wells.
               (B)   Property lines.
               (C)   Public roads.
               (4)   Four hundred (400) feet from existing off-site residential and public
            buildings.
            (b)   A manure storage facility that contains solid manure must be maintained to
            have a minimum setback of one hundred (100) feet from the features in subsection (a)
            (2), but must comply with the setbacks in subsection (a)(1), (a)(3), and (a)(4).
            (c)   If one (1) of the features in subsection (b) is constructed within the
            specified setback distances to an existing waste management system, a new waste
            management system may be constructed to maintain the same setback between the
            existing waste management system and the feature, providing that the feature was:
               (1)   Not under the control of the owner/operator of the CFO; and
               (2)   Constructed after the application for original waste management system was
            submitted to the department.
            (d)   The owner/operator may obtain a reduced setback under 327IAC19-5 by
            demonstrating to the commissioner that a different compliance approach meets the
            performance. standards in 327 IAC 19-3-1.
            (e)   The property line setback distances in this section may be waived in writing
            by the owner of the adjoining
            property.
            (Water Pollution Control Division; 327 IAC 19-12-3; filed Feb 6,2012, 2:58 p.m.:
            20120307-IR-327090615FRA, eff Jul 1, 2012; filed Jul 12, 2017, 8:47 a.m.: 20170809-
            IR-327160003FRA)
             
            g.   Landscape Screening: Level 2
             
            i.   The most up to date state regulations on pollution and setbacks must be
            followed. This may include, but is not limited to: IAC 327: Article 19 - Confined
            Feeding Operations and IAC 327: Article 20-Satellite Manure Storage Structure
            Permitting Program.
            Delete; 80.06.04, Restricted Commercial Farm Enterprise (CFO's).
Zoning/ Subdivision Amended/Deleted Text 1980 Code Section Ord. No. Date Passed
Section
Zoning/                                                                                                         1980    Ord.  Date
Subdivision Amended/Deleted Text                                                                                Code    No.   Passed
Section                                                                                                         Section
            Specific Conditional Uses; remove RE from the Permitted Zones under the listed conditional uses:
            Airport; Anhydrous Ammonia or Similar Liquefied Fertilizers, Storage and Distribution (Commercial);         2018- 12-11-
80.06.04    Bottled Gas Storage and Distribution Yard; Commercial Breeders; Kennel, Commercial; Mining                  13    2018
            Operation; Mobile Home Park; Restricted Commercial Farm Enterprise (including CAFO’s and CFO’s);
            Sales Barn for Livestock (Resale), Slaughter House.
            Boarding House, Lodging House, Tourist Home, and Bed and Breakfast of 4 to 8 Rental Units: replace
            "Class 2, Permitted by Executive Decision" with "Class 3, Permitted by Hearing"; remove R1 from
            Zones Permitted.
80.06.04    Boarding House, Lodging House, Tourist Home, and Bed and Breakfast of 9 or Greater Rental Units:            2020- 7-14-
            remove R1, R2 from Zones Permitted.                                                                         11    2020
            Clinic (Medical) and/or Dental: replace "(Medical)" with "Medical".
            Health Care Facility, Residential (Nursing Home): remove ", Residential (Nursing Home)"; remove I-
            1, I-2 from Zones Permitted.
            SECTION 80.06.06: COMMERCIAL & INTERMEDIATE ALTERNATE ENERGY SYSTEMS be amended for the following
            additions:                                                                                                  2024- 8-19-
80.06.06    k.   Screening (Ground-Mounted Systems Only)                                                             15    2024
               1.   Level 2 Level 3 screening per 80.08.10 if located within 400 feet of nonparticipating
            landowner or public right of way.
80.06.06    Amend Section 80.06.06 as specifically stated in Ord. 2020-8.                                               2020- 7-14-
                                                                                                                        8     202 0
80.06.06    Amend Section 80.06.06 as specifically stated in Ord. 2021-8.                                               2021- 5-25-
                                                                                                                        8     202 1
80.06.06    Amend Section 80.06.06 as specifically stated in Ord. 2025-01.                                              2025- 1-22-
                                                                                                                        01    2025
80.06.06    Amend Section 80.06.06 as specifically stated in Ord. 2025-6.                                               2025- 2-18-
                                                                                                                        6     2025
80.06.06    Replace Section 80.06.06 as specifically stated in Ord. 2025-13.                                            2025- 6-16-
                                                                                                                        13    2025
80.06.07    Amend Section 80.06.07 as specifically stated in Ord. 2021-10.                                              2021- 5-25-
                                                                                                                        10    2021
80.06.07    Update Section 80.06.07 as specifically stated in Ord. 2025-13.                                             2025- 6-16-
                                                                                                                        13    2025
80.06.08    Amend Section 80.06.08 as specifically stated in Ord. 2023-8.                                               2023- 8-21-
                                                                                                                        8     2023
            Specifically, the proposed amendments are as follows:
            Section 80.08.03, 6. Storage;
            a.   No portion of any required yard shall be used for the permanent storage of unlicensed and/or        2022- 3-15-
80.08.03    inoperable motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, mobile homes, trailers, airplanes, boats parts            6     2022
            thereof, rubbish, garbage, junk, tent or building materials, except during construction.
            Agriculture equipment is exempted. (1) - Town of Brookville, Cedar Grove, Mt. Carmel and
            Brookville; remove the words "required" and "setback."
            Specifically; the proposed amendment is as follows:
            SECTION 80.08.03; YARD AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS: C, 6. Storage.
80.08.03    a.   No portion of any yard shall be used for the permanent storage of unlicensed and/or (delete:        2022- 12-6-
            "and") inoperable motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, mobile homes, trailers, airplanes, boats           22    2022
            parts thereof, rubbish, garbage, junk, tent or building materials, except during construction.
            (Add: "Operable") Agriculture equipment is exempted.
80.08.05    Amend Section 80.08.05 as specifically stated in Ord. 2024-24.                                              2024- 1-9-
                                                                                                                        24    2025
            Remain as stated for the County and the Town of Laurel. However, within the designated Towns of
            Brookville and Mount Carmel, the Temporary Use of Mobile Homes, Manufactured Homes and RVs shall be         4-    7-12-
80.08.07    governed by the language of 80.35 under the Area Zoning Code (pre-modification language). Further,          2011  2011
            within the Towns of Oldenburg and Cedar Grove, the Temporary Use of Manufactured Homes and RVs              1-    6-26-
            shall be governed by the language of 80.35 under the Area Zoning Code, but the Temporary Use of             2012  2012
            Mobile Homes shall be prohibited altogether.
80.08.02(A  Insert “See Section 80.09.01(D)(5) (2011-16 Amendment)”.                                                5-    7-26-
)                                                                                                                       2016  2016
80.08.02(C  Change “Exception” to “Variance” (two places).                                                      5-    7-26-
)(5)                                                                                                                    2016  2016
            Remain as state for the County and the Town of Laurel. However, within the designated Towns, the            4-    7-12-
80.08.03(C  current language of 80.08.03(C)(6)(a) shall be modified to remove the words “required” and              2011  2011
)(6)(a)     “setback” and leaving ail other words as written. Thereby, clarifying that, within the designated       1-    6-26-
            Towns, no portion of any yard shall be used for the permanent storage of those items listed                 2012  2012
            therein.
            A.   The normal maximum height of a dwelling is 35 feet in the A-l, A-2, RE, R-l, R-2, R-3, G-B, L-
80.08.04    B, P-B, U-D, 1-1 and 1-2 districts.                                                                         2018- 12-11-
            B.   The normal maximum height of business uses is 60 feet in the G-B, L-B, P-B, U-D 1-1 and 1-          10    2018
            2 districts.
80.08.04(A  Add I-2 to this section.                                                                                    5-    7-26-
)                                                                                                                       2016  2016
80.08.04(B  Add I-1.                                                                                                    5-    7-26-
)                                                                                                                       2016  2016
80.08.04(C  Change 11 to I-1.                                                                                           5-    7-26-
)                                                                                                                       2016  2016
80.08.06(B  Add I-1.                                                                                                    5-    7-26-
)(2)                                                                                                                    2016  2016
                                                                                                                        4-    7-12-
80.08.08    Remain as stated for the County and the Town of Laurel. However, within the designated Towns, only          2011  2011
            one home shall be permitted per private drive or lane.                                                      1-    6-26-
                                                                                                                        2012  2012
            SECTION 80.08.10: LANDSCAPING STANDARDS be amended for the following additions:
            A.   Landscape Screening:
               1.   Level 1. Visual screening, foliage and/or fencing not less than 3 feet in height, on a
            strip of landscaped ground at least 3 feet wide. Visual screening must be effective at all times of
            the year.                                                                                                   2024- 8-19-
80.08.10       2.   Level 2. Visual screening, foliage and/or fencing not less than 8 feet in height, on a        15    2024
            strip of landscaped ground at least 5 feet wide. Visual screening must be effective at all times of
            the year.
               3.   Level 3. Visual screening, foliage and/or fencing not less than 10 feet in height, on a
            strip of landscaped ground at least 10 feet wide. Visual screening must be effective at all times
            of the year.
80.08.10    Amend Section 80.08.10 as specifically stated in Ord. 2025-01.                                              2025- 1-22-
                                                                                                                        01    2025
80.09       Amend Section 80.09 as specifically stated in Ord. 2024-2.                                                  2024- 2-5-
                                                                                                                        2     2024
            Add text:
            “5. For purposes of creating a building site, the “undeniable access” requirement shall not be        3-    8-9-
80.09.01    fulfilled by the use of unmaintained road right-of-ways, abandoned roads, unvacated, but no longer          2011  2011
            maintained “township roads”, or other public ways. Note: public way may be use only if it is the
            sole access to a parcel created, and recorded prior, to the adoption of the 1965 Zoning Code.”
80.09.02    Delete "In addition, I agree to record this document at the Franklin County, Indiana Recorder's             2020- 7-14-
            Office with a fee of $25.00".                                                                               9     2020
80.10       Amend Section 80.10 as specifically stated in Ord. 2023-3.                                                  2023- 3-2-
                                                                                                                        3     2023
80.10.06    Amend Section 80.10.06 as specifically stated in Ord. 2024-24.                                              2024- 1-9-
                                                                                                                        24    2025
80.10.07(I) Delete “I” change “E” to “J”.                                                                   5-    7-26-
(3)                                                                                                                     2016  2016
80.10.07(J) Change “trains” to “mains”.                                                                         5-    7-26-
(2)                                                                                                                     2016  2016
80.10.07(L  Change “contact” to “contract”.                                                                     5-    7-26-
)                                                                                                                       2016  2016
                                                                                                                        4-    7-12-
80.11.02(8  Remove entirely                                                                                             2011  2011
)                                                                                                                       1-    6-26-
                                                                                                                        2012  2012
80.11.04(B  Delete 80.18 and 80.19 and replace with “80.03.10 and 80.03.11”.                                        5-    7-26-
)                                                                                                                       2016  2016
80.11.05(D  Delete “exceptions”.                                                                                    5-    7-26-
)                                                                                                                       2016  2016
            Amend as follows:
            (E)   Individual financial responsibility to Citizens of Franklin County. Citizens of Franklin
            County are encouraged to reach amicable resolutions related to land uses which are offensive to
            one, and are considered reasonable to the other without the involvement of County Government and
            litigation.
               To reduce the financial burden to our Citizens resulting from enforcement of this code, and to
80.11.07    reduce administrative costs for our county officials and courts, in all legal disputes initiated by         2020- 1-14-
            the Area Plan Commission (APC) against a Citizen related to this code, where the Citizen prevails,          2     2020
            the prevailing Citizen's legal expenses and reasonable costs in prosecution of their case shall be
            fully compensated by the APC.
               The APC has the responsibility to enforce its ordinances and the Citizens as a body bear the
            expense of all litigation carried forth by the APC. Therefore, in actions initiated by the APC
            against a Citizen(s) to enforce this code, if the APC prevails, they may request reasonable legal
            expenses and costs.
            Remedies, Penalties and Fines. C. Fines. 1. Types of Violations. b. Category II: All other
            violations; Delete; Replace with: All other violations (not immediate danger to the community)              2021- 11-9-
80.11.07    Violations of Category II shall be subject to a court ordered fine up to $500. Every 30 days a              23    2021
            violation remains uncorrected is a distinct and separate zoning violation subject to an additional
            fine in the amount of $500 per month (every 30 days).
            Specifically the proposed amendments are as follows:
            Public Notification; E. Notification in Newspapers; 1. Legal Notices. Delete: replace with “As per
            Indiana Code.”                                                                                            2021- 11-9-
80.11.08    Public Notification; E. Notification to Newspapers; 2. Display Advertising Required. Delete: “The         23    2021
            size of the display ad is as follows;” replace with “All other notices shall be per Indiana Code.”
            Public Notification; E. Notification to Newspapers; 2. Display Advertising Required. Delete: a; 1,
            2, 3 and 4; and b.
            Specifically the proposed amendments are as follows:                                                        2022- 3-15-
80.11.08    Section 80.11.08 Public Notification; E. Notification to Newspapers; 2. Display Advertising                 7     2022
            Required: Delete and replace with “Notices shall be per Indiana Code.”
80.11.013   Amend Section 80.11.013 as specifically stated in Ord. 2024-24.                                             2024- 1-9-
                                                                                                                        24    2025
80.12.01(I) Delete “and special exceptions”.                                                                        5-    7-26-
(2)                                                                                                                     2016  2016
80.12.01(J)                                                                                                             5-    7-26-
(2)         Delete “of” (second instance).                                                                          2016  2016
(b)
80.13       Definition of Flood Plain, delete “80.05.15” and replace with “80.03.15”.                           5-    7-26-
            Definition of Flood Area Gross, same as above.                                                              2016  2016
            Specifically the proposed amendments are as follows:
            Definitions 80.13;
            Household Pets: Domestic animals, generally dogs or cats that are kept inside the home or in the
            yard in all districts. It also includes rodents, reptiles, and fowl that are generally caged inside
            the home. These pets are kept for pleasure and not for profit. 4-H project animals and hunting
            animals shall be exempt from the number limitation but remain subject to the nuisance ordinance.
            Kennel, Commercial: Any lot or premises on which for commercial purposes are kept for breeding,             2022- 3-15-
80.13       boarding, or training purposes, or for sale, nine (9) or more adult dogs, cats, or other domestic           9     2022
            animals more than one year of age. And, annual sales or service revenue generated by the Commercial
            Kennel is equal to or greater than $5,000.00. Unless such are exempted by the Farm Exemption
            (80.01.05).
            Kennel, Private: Any lot on which for non- commercial purposes nine (9) or more adult dogs, cats,
            or other small animals at least one year of age, are kept in outside or inside pens, unless such
            are exempted by the Farm Exemption (80.01.C.1). 4- H project animals, animals kept for recreational
            purposes (such as hunting, etc.) are excepted.
            Remain as stated for the County and the Town of Laurel. However, within the designated Towns, the
            definition of “violation” shall be amended to clarify that “each day a violation occurs shall
            constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such subject to the limits of applicable
            state and federal laws.”                                                                                  4-    7-12-
            Amend as follows:                                                                                           2011  2011
            Clinic, Medical and/or Dental: A building used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick,               1-    6-26-
80.13(C)    ailing, infirm or injured persons, and those who need medical and surgical attention, but which             2012  201 2
            building does not provide room and board or regular hospital care and services.                             2020- 7-14-
            Health Care Facility: A licensed facility or institution, public or private, principally engaged in         7     202 0
            providing services for diagnosis and/or treatment of human disease, pain, injury, deformity or
            physical condition. Such facility may be a hospital, clinic or center, skilled nursing facility,
            extended care facility, or laboratory or central services facility serving one or more such
            institutions.
            Hospital: An institution licensed by the State Board of Health and providing health services
            primarily for in-patient medical or surgical care of the sick or injured and including related
            facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities, central service
            facilities and staff offices which are an integral part of the facility, provided such institution
            is operated by, or treatment is given under direct supervision of a licensed physician. Types of
            hospitals include general, mental, chronic disease and allied special hospitals such as cardiac,
            contagious disease, maternity, orthopedic, cancer and the like.
            Amend Section 80.13(F) as follows:
            For purposes of this code, certain terms and definitions apply to section 80.06.06, Addiction
            Treatment Services as follows:
            Addiction Treatment Facility: A facility certified by the Indiana Department of Mental Health and
            Addiction (DMHA) as an adjunct to an opioid treatment facility and shall not administer opioid
            treatment medication. It offers a broad range of planned and continuing care, treatment,
            rehabilitation, and recovery, including, but not limited to, counseling, psychological, medical,
            and social services, designed to influence the behavior of an individual who abuses alcohol or
            drugs based on an individual treatment plan.
            Opioid Treatment Facility: Means the building and the location at which an Opioid Treatment Program
            provides the following services: (1) The administering of an opioid treatment medication. (2) A             2020- 7-14-
80.13(F)    comprehensive range of medical and recovery services to alleviate the adverse medical,                      10    202 0
            psychological, or physical effects incident to opioid addiction.
            Recovery Residence: An abstinence-based living environment for individuals that promote recovery
            from: (1) alcohol and (2) other drug abuse and related issues. There are various terms to describe
            recovery housing including sober housing, supportive services, wraparound services, halfway
            housing, faith-based housing and transitional housing.
            Medical Staff: Examples include but are not limited to Physicians, Physician Assistants, Nurse
            Practitioners, Clinical Nurse Specialists, Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists, and Certified
            Nurse Midwives.
            NARR: The National Alliance for Recovery Residences, whose mission is to support persons in
            recovery from addiction by improving their access to quality recovery residences through standards,
            support services, placement, education, research and advocacy.
80.13(G)    Amend Section 80.13(G) as specifically stated in Ord. 2021-9.                                               2021- 5-25-
                                                                                                                        9     202 1
80.13(G)    Replace Section 80.13(G) as specifically stated in Ord. 2025-13.                                            2025- 6-16-
                                                                                                                        13    2025
80.13.01    Amend Section 80.13.01 as specifically stated in Ord. 2023-9.                                               2023- 8-21-
                                                                                                                        9     2023
            Change to read:
            “(5 1/2) Beauty Shop or Barber All except I-1, I-2, R-l & R-2 Shop
            Other requirements for Special Exceptions.                                                                        11-26-
80.25       (5 1/2) Beauty Shop or Barber Shop.                                                                         -     19 96
            (a) Parking.
            Two (2) parking spaces provided per chair station or as to be determined by the board. The
            determination shall be based upon estimated client & client related services offered.”
            Add text:
            “...and may be renewed by a Doctor Statement, accompanied with the health condition of the
80.35       individuals or individual that are using this temporary use. This is to be directed to the                  -     11-26-
            Executive Director and Chairman of the Board of Zoning Appeals, this is to be done prior to issue                 19 96
            of a renewal permit of a Temporary Use. The filing fee may be waived after review of Director and
            Chairman Approval.”
            Change to read:                                                                                                   11-9-
80.48(B)    “...application for an Improvement Location Permit or a Temporary Improvement Location Permit the         -     199 9
            sum of $20.00 shall be paid.”
            Change to read:                                                                                                   11-9-
80.48(C)    “...application for a Certificate of Occupancy or Temporary Certificate of Occupancy, the sum of          -     1999
            $10.00 shall be paid.”
            Change to read:
            “(2) Change of Zone Classification or Change of Text: $300.00
            (5) Special Exception: $300.00                                                                                    11-9-
80.48(D)    (6) Temporary Uses: $100.00                                                                                 -     1999
            (7) Contingent Uses: $100.00
            (a) First Offense: $100.00
            (b) Second Offense: $200.00”
            Change to read:
            “A. Preliminary Unit Development Plan
80.48(D)(4  (1) Less than 20 acres $600.00                                                                              -     11-9-
)           (2) 20-100 acres $600.00 plus $2.00 for each acre over 19 acres                                                   1999
            B. Detailed Unit Development Plan
            (1) Any number of acres......$300.00 plus $1.00 for each acre”
            Delete the following;
81.03(27)   “The two (2) acre lot may be reduced to a one (1) acre lot size by filing for a variance and the                11-9-
( d)        lots in the proposed Subdivision shall have: a. Sixty (60) inches of soil without any limiting              -     1999
            layer: and b. A soil loading rate of .30 or greater as per rule 410 IAC 6-8.1 table 5,” and c. Two
            (2) septic and leach field sites available, one (1) for backup.”
81.03(27)(e Change to read:                                                                                             -     11-9-
)(4)(f)     “...Filing fee for a certified survey will be sixty ($60.00) dollars per application.”                        1999
            Change to read:
81.04(B)    “...Franklin County, Indiana, in the amount of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), plus Twenty Dollars        -     11-9-
            ($20.00) per lot for the first twenty (20) lots, and ten ($10.00) per lot in excess of twenty (20)                1999
            lots.”
            Change to read:
81.04(4)(G  “On any new division of property where a road is required to access such, a hard surface road will              1-13-
)           be required to be built as per code in Section 81.07 prior to any Improvement Location Permit being         -     1998
            issued. In addition, no Improvement Location Permit shall be issued until all. the requirements of
            Section 80.46 are met and approved by the APC Director.”
            Delete existing and change to read:
            “Residential Streets shall be surfaced to a minimum width of thirty-six (36) feet, (unless
            otherwise noted) measured back to back of curb. Streets classified as “arterial” or “feeder” in the
81.07(B)(2  thoroughfare plan, as set forth in the Thoroughfare Plan Code, shall be surfaced to a minimum width               1-13-
)           of forty (40) feet. (Curb and gutter is added to the minimum surface, see subsection (G) herein.)           -     1998
            The Commission may require the subdivider to provide street surfacing on streets which are proposed
            to be extensions of existing paved streets, and which exceed the minimum dimensions set forth
            above, to the full, width of the existing paved street. Alley shall be surfaced to their full
            width. Cul-de-sac turnarounds shall be paved to a diameter of eighty (80) feet.”
            Change to read:
            “Where as if school bus use is planned by the developer or if so deemed necessary by school policy
            or law of distance for pickup of school students, a 110 foot diameter or 55 foot: radius with a
81.07(B)(2  paved area of 24 feet around the outer radius of the cul-de-sac and a 70 foot right-of-way with a                 1-13-
)(a)        solid sod Center with a 2 foot gravel berm around paved radius shall be required. Any unpaved               -     1998
            portion of the cul-de-sac shall not be dedicated to the county and must be maintained by the
            developer or Property Owners Association. There shall be no parking of any type of motorized
            vehicles or non-motorized vehicles nor the placement of any object which may be an impediment to
            snow removal.”
81.07(B)(3  Change to read:                                                                                                   1-13-
)           “When Streets in hillside subdivisions are to be paved to a width less than forty feet, off street        -     1998
            parking...”
            Delete existing and change to read:
81.07(B)(3  “Average Lot Size (Square Feet) 12,000-15,000; Indicated Pavement Width (Feet) 40 feet; Average Lot       -     1-13-
)           Size (Square Feet) 16,000-30,000; Indicated Pavement Width (Feet) 36 feet: Average Lot Size (Square               1998
            Feet) 31,000-over; Indicated Pavement Width (Feet) 20 feet.”
            Change to read:
            “The subdivision shall be known and designated as name, a subdivision of or an addition to
81.08(F)(3) (                   ) , Indiana. All streets, alleys and/or roadways shown and not heretof-re   7-14-
            dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the public, add: and there shall be no transfer of ownership of                1997
            street, alleys and/or roadways until the County Commissioners (or governing body in place) have
            accepted the streets, alleys and/or roadways by Resolution.”
            Change to read:
            “The owner of the herein described real estate (name of subdivision), for himself, and for all
            future owners and occupants of said Real Estate, or any parcel or subdivision thereof, for an in
            consideration of the right to develop the Real Estate for other than agriculture uses, hereby;
81.08(M)    First, acknowledges and agrees that in the (name of the subdivision) is in or adjacent to an area           -     11-26-
            zoned for agriculture uses, which uses include, but are not limited to, production of crops, animal               1996
            husbandry, land application of animal waste, the raising, breeding, and sale of livestock and
            poultry, including confinement feeding operations, use of farm machinery, and sale of farm
            products;
             
            Second, waives any and all objections to any such agricultural uses on any real estate zoned for
            such uses within two miles of any boundary of the (name of subdivision), whether such uses
            currently exist, are enlarged, or changed in use in the future to another agricultural use;
            Third, agrees that such agricultural uses, whether currently existing, or hereafter established,
81.08(M)    enlarged, or changed., do not constitute a nuisance so long as they are not negligently maintained,         -     11-26-
(Cont’d)  do not cause bodily injury to third parties, or directly endanger human health; and                               1996
            Fourth, agree that this covenant is for the benefit of the Franklin County Plan Commission and all
            persons engaged in agricultural uses within two miles of any boundary of the (name of the
            subdivision) and is enforceable by any of the foregoing; together with such other covenants as may
            be required by this Chapter.”
            Change to read:
            “Type of Construction Inspection Fee Deposit
            Detached 1 or Two Family
            Dwelling   
                     $200.00 plus $5.00 per 100
                      square feet over 960
                      square feet
            Manufactured Home (double wides, modulars, etc.)
                           $200.00
            Accessory Buildings (in- ground pools, porches)
                              $75.00
            Residential Additions          $100.00 plus $1.00 per 100 square feet                                    11-9-
90.11       (attached garages)                                                                               -     1999
            Unenclosed Lean-to, Decks,      $45.00
            Above ground pools
            All Commercial & Commercial Additions   
                      $500.00 plus $2.00 per 100
                    square feet not to exceed the
                   feet of $6,500.00
            Signs               $30.00
            Mutli-Family Dwellings      $300.00 plus
                      $5.00 per 100 square feet
            Temporary Structures          $50.00
            Reinspection Fees         $30.00
            Meter Checks                                       $30.00”
            The Zone Map referred to is changed in accordance with the area indicated in black boundaries on
            the attached drawings. Franklin County and each participating municipality comprising the Franklin
            County Area Plan Commission, which may pass this ordinance, are approving zoning changes only
            within the areas of their respective jurisdiction as indicated below:
            1. Sheet 3 of 6 of the Zone Map is changed where indicated on Map 1.
150.02      2. The Brookville (detailed) portion of Sheet A of 6 of the Zone Map is changed where indicated on          4-    - -
            Map 2. (Notice correction of Brookville corporation line east of the East Fork of Whitewater                1989  1989
            River).
            3. The Mt. Carmel (detailed) portion of Sheet 6 of 6 is changed where indicated on Map 3. (Notice
            corrections of S.R. 229 should be S.R. 252, Also, Jackson Street extends south of S.R. 252).
            4. Sheet 1 of 6 of the Zone Map is changed where indicated on Map 3.
            5. All changes will be shown where the various sheets of the Zone Map overlap.
150.24      Changing “Districts in which the Use is Permitted” to read “all” opposite “Farm House or Farm     4-    - -
            Dwelling” and opposite “Farm seasonal worker housing, tenant”, under subsection (A).                  1989  1989
            Adding two Special Exceptions:
            “(20 1/2) Hazardous Waste or Contaminant Facility.....I-2",                                               4-    - -
150.25(E)   “(31 1/2) Outdoor Commercial Enterprise...,GB, I-1, & I-2";                                               1989  1989
            Changing the “Districts in which the Use May be Permitted” from “A-1, A-2, RE, I-1, I-2 & FP” to
            “GB, I-1 & I-2" opposit “(28) Mini-Warehouses or Self-Service Storage Facility”
            Add two new Special Exceptions which read as follows:
            “(20 1/2) Hazardous Waste or Contaminant Facility
            (a) Minimum Lot Area. 100 acres.
            (b) Minimum Yards.
            Front - 1,000'; side - 1000'; and rear - 1,000'.
            (c) Minimum Setback from Waterway.                                                                          4-    - -
150.25(F)   1,000' from any waterway, including but not limited to creeks, rivers, streams, ponds, and lakes.           1989  1989
            34(d) Applicants are Limited.
            Only persons that may apply for a Hazardous Waste or Contaminant Facility Use are those persons who
            had an existing business or industry dealing in hazardous waste or contaminants in Franklin county,
            as uf the 26th day of February, 1985.
            (e) Development Plan.
            Development Plan to be submitted with application.”
            Add new paragraph:                                                                                          4-    - -
150.34(B)   “(7) A manufactured unit certified as a Mobil Home or any previously titled vehicle cannot be used        1989  1989
            as an Accessory Building for a residential use.”
            Add new paragraph:
            “(9 1/2) Mobile home as a temporary living place or dwelling for an infirm or sickly blood relative       4-    - -
150.35(C)   who is unable to care for himself due to sickness, age, or disability, on the same lot as the               1989  1989
            existing dwelling; or for a family whose existing dwelling on the same lot has been severely
            damaged by fire or other danger. Maximum 2 years.”
            1. The following new definitions are hereby inserted in their proper numerical order:
            “(21 1/2) BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of the principal and accessory
            building(s) on the lot, excluding open steps or terraces, unenclosed porches not exceeding one
            story in height, or architectural appurtenances projecting not more than two feet”.
            “(35 1/2) CONTAMINANT. Any solid, semisolid, liquid or gaseous matter, any odor, any radioactive
            material, any pollutant as defined in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, any hazardous waste
            as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (P.L. 94-580), or any combination
            thereof, from whatever source, which is injurious to human health, plant or animal life, or to
            property, or which is otherwise violative of the provisions of this Code or regulations adopted
150.47      thereto”.                                                                                                 4-    - -
            “(43 1/2) DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling p leaking, or placing of any solid        1989  1989
            waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so that such solid waste or hazardous waste
            or any constituent thereof may enter the environment or be admitted into the air or discharged into
            any waters, including ground waters”.
            “(55 1/2) FEDERAL WATER POLLUTION CONTROL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended
            and in effect on January 1, 1980, including amendments made by the Federal Water Pollution Control
            Act Amendments of 1972 (P.L. 92-500), and by the Clean Water Act of 1977 (P.L. 95-217),
            Other terms concerning hazardous waste not defined in this ordinance shall have the meanings
            ascribed to them in I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-22, or I.C. 36-9, or if not defined
            in the above cited portions of the Indiana Code, then the meanings ascribed by common usage”.
            “(66 1/2) HAZARDOUS WASTE AND HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. Hazardous Waste means a solid waste, or
            combination of solid wastes, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical,
            or infectious characteristics may:
            (a) cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality or increase in serious
            irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; or
            (b) pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when
            improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of, or otherwise managed,”; and
            Hazardous Waste Facility means a plant or site where hazardous waste is subjected to treatment,
            storage, disposal, or recovery”.
            “(146 1/2) STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE. The containment of hazardous waste, either on a temporary
            basis or for a period of years, in such a manner as not to constitute disposal of such hazardous
            waste”.
            “(159 1/2) TREATMENT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any method, technique, or process, designed to change the
            physical, chemical, or biological character or composition of any hazardous waste so as to
            neutralize such waste or so as to render such waste non-hazardous, safer for transport, amenable
            for recovery, amenable for storage, or reduced in volume. This term includes any activity or
            processing designed to change the physical form or chemical composition of hazardous waste so as to
            render it nonhazardous”.
            2, The district described as the “A-1 Prime Agriculture District” in definition (55) FARMSTEAD LOT,
            is changed to read: “A-2 Agriculture District”.
            3. The following sentence is hereby added after the second sentence of definition (114) OUTDOOR
            RECREATION, “Outdoor Commercial Recreational Enterprises may be included in Outdoor Commercial
            Enterprises which may include certain types of business or commercial uses”.
 
(Ord. 2025-9, passed 5-5-2025)
CHAPTER 154: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITIES IN TOWN RIGHTS-OF-
WAY
Section
   
154.01   Authority; permit required; exemption
   
154.02   Requirements for issuance of permit
   
154.03   Delegation of authority
§ 154.01 AUTHORITY; PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The Town of Brookville, Indiana (the "town") is granted the authority
in the Indiana Code to regulate the usage of public rights-of-way through
various statutes including, but not limited to, I.C. 36-8-2-10 which authorizes
the town to regulate the operation of businesses, crafts, professions, and
occupations, and I.C. 36-9-2-15, which authorizes the town to regulate the
furnishing of utility service to the citizens of the town.
   (B)   Any UTILITY, as defined by I.C. 8-1-2-1(g), and any company offering
BROADBAND SERVICES, as defined by I.C. 5-28-28.5-0.5, shall be required to
obtain a right-of-way work permit from the town prior to the installation of
any utility infrastructure in town rights-of-way.
   (C)   A permit is not required for the installation of any utility
infrastructure by the town municipal utilities and the town municipal utilities
is hereby exempted from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-6, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 154.02 REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Prior to the issuance of any right-of-way work permit, the utility or
broadband service provider must comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   The utility or broadband service provider, and any contractor or agent
performing work on their behalf, must execute the agreement for the issuance of
a right-of-way work permit;
   (B)   Construction plans, including finishing measures upon completion of
the work, must be submitted to the town's Utilities Supervisor and Street
Superintendent for review and approval;
   (C)   The utility or broadband service provider, and any contractor or agent
performing work on their behalf, must submit proof of insurance to the town's
Utilities Supervisor and Street Superintendent and the town must be named as an
additional insured;
   (D)   The right-of-way work permit fee in the amount of $100 must be paid to
the town's Clerk-Treasurer Office. This fee may be waived for the installation
of broadband services as part of the "Broadband Ready Communities" initiative
as outlined in I.C. 5-28-28.5; and
   (E)   The posting of any sureties or bonds which may be required by the
town's Utilities Supervisor and Street Superintendent.
(Ord. 2024-6, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 154.03 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   The Council of the town does hereby grant the town's Utilities Supervisor
and Street Superintendent the authority to enforce this chapter. This
delegation of authority includes the power to execute the agreement for the
issuance of a right-of-way work permit on behalf of the town and to require a
surety or bond as noted in §
154.02(E) for any work that is required to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-6, passed 5-6-2024)
CHAPTER 155: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Historic Preservation Commission establishment and organization
   
155.04   Powers and duties of the Commission
   
155.05   Historic districts and guidelines
   
155.06   Interim protection
   
155.07   Certificates of appropriateness
   
155.08   Staff approvals
   
155.09   Visual compatibility
   
155.10   Preservation of historical and architectural character upon alteration
or relocation mandated
   
155.11   Maintenance
   
155.12   Relationship with zoning districts
   
155.13   Removal of historic district designation
   
155.14   Enforcement by interested parties
   
155.15   Enforcement, penalties, and judicial review
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose of historic preservation and protection.
      (1)   To promote the educational, cultural and general welfare of the
citizens of the town and to ensure the harmonious and orderly growth and
development of the municipality;
      (2)   To maintain established residential neighborhoods in danger of
having their distinctiveness destroyed;
      (3)   To enhance property values and attract new residents;
      (4)   To ensure the viability of the traditional downtown area and to
enhance tourism within the town;
      (5)   It is deemed essential by the town that qualities relating to its
history and harmonious outward appearance of its structures be preserved.
   (B)   These purposes are advanced through the restoration and preservation
of historic areas and buildings, the construction of compatible new buildings
where appropriate, and the maintenance and ensurance of compatibility in
regards to style, form, proportion, texture, and material between historic
buildings and those of contemporary design.
   (C)   It is the intention of the town through this chapter to preserve and
protect historic or architecturally worthy buildings, structures, sites,
monuments, streetscapes, squares and neighborhoods of the historic districts
created in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall have the following meaning unless a contrary
meaning is required by the context or is specifically prescribed. Words in the
present tense include the future tense. The singular number includes the
plural, and the plural, the singular. The word "shall" is always mandatory. The
word "person" includes a firm, a partnership, a limited liability company, or a
corporation, as well as an individual. Terms not defined in this section shall
have the meanings customarily assigned to them.
   ALTERATION. A material or color change in the external architectural
features of any building, structure, or site within a historic district.
   CLASSIFICATIONS.
      (1)   OUTSTANDING. The "O" classification means that the property has
sufficient historic or architectural significance such that it is listed, or is
eligible for individual listing, in the National Register of Historic Places
(the "National Register"). Outstanding resources can be of local, state, or
national importance.
      (2)   NOTABLE. The "N" classification means that the property does not
merit the outstanding rating, but it is still above average in its importance.
A notable structure may be eligible for the National Register.
      (3)   CONTRIBUTING. The "C" classification means that the property is at
least 40 years old, but does not meet the criteria for an "O" or "N"
classification. Contributing properties are important to the density or
continuity of the area's historic fabric. Contributing properties can be listed
in the National Register only as part of a historic district.
      (4)   NON-CONTRIBUTING. Property classified as "NC" is not included in a
historic sites and structures inventory unless it is located within the
boundaries of a historic district. Such properties may be less than 50 years
old, or they may be older properties that have been altered in such a way that
they have lost their historic character, or they may be otherwise incompatible
with their historic surroundings. These properties are not eligible for listing
in the National Register.
   COMMISSION. The Historic Preservation Commission established by this
chapter.
   DEMOLITION. The complete or substantial removal of any building or structure
located in a historic district.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A single building, structure, site, monument,
streetscape, or square, or a concentration of buildings, structures, sites,
monuments, streetscapes, squares or neighborhoods, the boundaries of which are
described or delineated on a map approved in an ordinance adopted by the Town
Council.
   INTERESTED PARTY. One of the following:
      (1)   The Town Council.
      (2)   The Town Area Advisory Commission or other agency having land use
planning jurisdiction over a historic district designated by ordinance.
      (3)   A neighborhood association, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
a majority of whose members are residents of a historic district designated by
an ordinance adopted by the Town Council.
      (4)   An owner or occupant owning or occupying property located in a
historic district established by an ordinance adopted by the Town Council.
      (5)   Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Inc., or any of its
successors.
      (6)   The state Historic Preservation Officer designated under I.C. 14-
21-1-19.
   PRESERVATION GUIDELINES. Locally developed criteria which identify design
concerns to assist property owners in maintaining the character of the historic
district or buildings during the process of rehabilitation or new construction.
   PRIMARY AREA. The principal area of historic and/or architectural
significance within a historic district as delineated on the map establishing
the boundaries of the historic district.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Work for which no certificate of appropriateness is
required.
   SECONDARY AREA. An area in a historic district as delineated on the map
establishing the boundaries of the historic district that is adjacent to a
primary area and which has a visual relationship to the primary area and could
affect the preservation of the primary area. The purpose of designating a
secondary area is to assure its compatibility and harmony with an adjacent,
primary area.
   STREETSCAPE. Appearance from a public way, the distinguishing
characteristics of which are created by the width of the street and sidewalks,
their paving materials and color, the design of the street furniture (e.g.,
street lights, trash receptacles, benches, etc.) use of plant materials such as
trees and shrubs, and the setback, mass, and proportion of those buildings
which enclose the street.
   TOWN. The Town of Brookville, Indiana.
   VISUAL COMPATIBILITY. Those elements of design that meet the guidelines set
out in §
155.09.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION ESTABLISHMENT AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the Historic Preservation
Commission of the town (hereinafter referred to as the "Commission").
   (B)   Composition; appointment. The Commission shall consist of seven voting
members. The voting members shall be appointed by the Town Council, and shall
be residents of the town who are interested in the preservation and development
of historic areas. The members of the Commission should include professionals
in the disciplines of architectural history, planning, and other disciplines
related to historic preservation, to the extent that those professionals are
available in the community. Up to two nonvoting, advisory member(s) may be
appointed to the Commission by the Town Council. Commission members shall serve
without compensation, except for reasonable expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties.
   (C)   Term. Voting members shall each serve for a term of three years;
however, the terms of original voting members shall be for one year, two years,
and three years in order for the terms to be staggered. The term for nonvoting,
advisory members shall be for three years. A vacancy shall be filled within 90
days for the duration of the term.
   (D)   Commission Administrator. A town administrator designated by the Town
Council shall serve as the ex-officio administrator of the Commission. The
administrator shall provide staff assistance to the Commission, act as the
Commission's secretary, and issue certificates of appropriateness as directed
by the Commission.
   (E)   Officers. The Commission shall elect from its membership a
Chairperson, a Vice- Chairperson, and a Treasurer, who shall serve for one year
and who may be reelected. The Commission Administrator shall serve as the
Commission's secretary.
   (F)   Rules. The Commission shall adopt rules consistent with this chapter
for the transaction of its business. The rules must include the time and place
of regular meetings and a procedure for the calling of special meetings.
   (G)   Meetings. All Commission meetings must be open to the public and a
public record must be kept of the Commission's resolutions, proceedings, and
actions. The Commission shall hold regular meetings, at least monthly, except
when it has no business pending. Special meetings may be called in a manner
determined by the Commission and its rules.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall be concerned with those elements of development,
redevelopment, rehabilitation, and preservation that affect visual quality in a
historic district. The Commission may not consider details of design, interior
arrangements, or building features, if those details, arrangements, or features
are not subject to public view, and may not make any requirement except for the
purpose of preventing development, alteration, or demolition in a historic
district obviously incongruous with the historic district.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct a survey to identify historic buildings,
structures, and sites located within the town. Based on its survey, the
Commission shall submit to the Town Council a map describing the boundaries of
a historic district or historic districts. A district may be limited to the
boundaries of a property containing a single building, structure, or site. The
map may divide a district into primary and secondary areas.
   (C)   The Commission shall also classify and designate on the map all
buildings, structures, and sites within each historic district described on the
map. Buildings, structures, and sites shall be classified as historic or
nonhistoric in the manner set forth in divisions (D) and (E) below.
   (D)   Buildings, structures, and sites classified as historic must possess
identified historic or architectural merit of a degree warranting their
preservation. They may be further classified as outstanding, notable, or
contributing (as defined in §
155.02). In lieu of these further classifications, the Commission may devise
its own system of further classification for historic buildings, structures,
and sites.
   (E)   Nonhistoric buildings and structures are those not classified on the
map as historic under division (B).
   (F)   The Commission may conduct additional surveys, and draw and submit
additional maps for approval of the Town Council, as the Commission considers
appropriate.
   (G)   The Commission may adopt preservation guidelines for architectural
review. If adopted, preservation guidelines shall be published and made readily
accessible to the general public.
   (H)   The Commission has the authority to receive funds in order to promote
its stated purposes.
   (I)   The Commission shall promote public interest in historic preservation
by initiating and carrying on a public relations and community education
program.
   (J)   The Commission has the authority to:
      (1)   Acquire by purchase, gift, grant, bequest, devise, or lease any
real or personal property, including easements, that is appropriate for
carrying out the purposes of the Commission;
      (2)   Hold title to real and personal property;
      (3)   Sell, lease, rent, or otherwise dispose of real and personal
property at a public or private sale on the terms and conditions that the
Commission considers best;
      (4)   Establish procedures that the Commission must follow in acquiring
and disposing of property.
   (K)   Each official of the town who has responsibility for building
inspection, building permits, planning, or zoning shall provide any technical,
administrative, or clerical assistance requested by the Commission. The
attorney for the town is the attorney for the Commission. However, the
Commission may employ other legal counsel authorized to practice law in Indiana
if it considers it necessary or desirable.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.05 HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Town Council approval of maps of historic districts. Before a historic
district is established and the building classifications take effect, the map
described in §
155.04(B), setting forth the historic district boundaries and building
classifications, must be submitted by the Commission to, and approved in an
ordinance by, the Town Council.
   (B)   In an ordinance approving the establishment of a historic district,
the Town Council may provide that the establishment shall occur in two phases.
During the first phase, which continues for a period of three years from the
date the ordinance is adopted, a certificate of appropriateness is required
only for the following activities: the demolition of any building; the moving
of any building; and any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way. At the end of the
first phase, the district becomes fully established, and, subject to division
(C), a certificate of appropriateness must be issued by the Commission before a
permit may be issued for or work may begin on an activity described in §
155.07(A).
   (C)   (1)   The first phase described in division (B) continues and the
second phase does not become effective if a majority of the property owners in
the district object to the Commission, in writing, to the requirement that
certificates of appropriateness be issued for the following activities:
         (a)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of historic
buildings by additions, reconstruction, alteration, or maintenance involving
exterior color change;
         (b)   A change in walls and fences or construction of walls and fences
along public ways;
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of nonhistoric
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration, or maintenance involving exterior color change.
      (2)   The objections must be received by the Commission not earlier than
180 days or later than 60 days before the third anniversary of the adoption of
the ordinance.
   (D)   In an ordinance approving the establishment of a historic district,
the Town Council may exclude changes in paint colors from the activities
requiring the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness under §
155.07 before a permit may be issued or work begun.
   (E)   The map establishing boundaries of a historic district may be recorded
in the Office of the Franklin County Recorder.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.06 INTERIM PROTECTION.
   (A)   When submitting a map to the Town Council to create a historic
district under this chapter, the Commission may declare one or more buildings
or structures that are classified and designated as historic on the map to be
under interim protection.
   (B)   Not more than two working days after declaring a building or structure
to be under interim protection under this section, the Commission shall, by
personal delivery or first class mail, provide the owner or occupant of the
building or structure with a written notice of the declaration. The written
notice must:
      (1)   Cite the authority of the Commission to put the building or
structure under interim protection under this section;
      (2)   Explain the effect of putting the building or structure under
interim protection; and
      (3)   Indicate that the interim protection is temporary.
   (C)   A building or structure put under interim protection under division
(A) remains under interim protection until the map is:
      (1)   Submitted to; and
      (2)   Approved in an ordinance or rejected by the Town Council.
   (D)   While a building or structure is under interim protection:
      (1)   The building or structure may not be demolished or moved; and
      (2)   The exterior appearance of the building or structure may not be
conspicuously changed by:
         (a)   Addition;
         (b)   Reconstruction; or
         (c)   Alteration.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.07 CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Certificates of appropriateness required. A certificate of
appropriateness must be issued by or on behalf of the Commission before a
permit is issued for or work is begun on any of the following:
      (1)   Within all areas of a historic district:
         (a)   The demolition of any building;
         (b)   The moving of any building;
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of historic
buildings by additions, reconstruction, alteration, or maintenance involving
exterior color change; or
         (d)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
      (2)   Within a primary area of a historic district:
         (a)   A change in walls and fences or the construction of walls and
fences along public ways; or
         (b)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of nonhistoric
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration or maintenance involving exterior color change.
      (3)   Within the first phase of a two-phase establishment of a historic
district:
         (a)   The moving of any building;
         (b)   The demolition of any building; or
         (c)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
   (B)   Application for certificates of appropriateness. Application for a
certificate of appropriateness shall be made in the office of the Commission on
forms provided by that office. Detailed drawings, plans, or specifications are
not required. However, to the extent reasonably required for the Commission to
make a decision, each application must be accompanied by sketches, drawings,
photographs, descriptions, or other information showing the proposed exterior
alterations, additions, changes, or new construction.
   (C)   Approval or denial of certificates of appropriateness. The Commission
may advise and make recommendations to the applicant before acting on an
application for a certificate of appropriateness. If an application for a
certificate of appropriateness is approved by the Commission, or is not acted
on by the Commission, within 30 days after it is filed, a certificate of
appropriateness shall be issued. If the certificate is issued, the application
shall be processed in the same manner as applications for building or
demolition permits required by the town, if any, are processed. If no building
or demolition permits are required by the town, the applicant may proceed with
the work authorized by the certificate. If the Commission denies an application
for a certificate of appropriateness within 30 days after it is filed, the
certificate may not be issued. The Commission must state its reasons for the
denial in writing, and must advise the applicant. An application that has been
denied may not be processed as an application for a building or demolition
permit and does not authorize any work by the applicant. The Commission may
grant an extension of the 30 day limit if the applicant agrees to it.
   (D)   Criteria for considering effect of actions on historic buildings. The
Commission, in considering the appropriateness of any reconstruction,
alteration, maintenance, or moving of a historic building or any part of or
appurtenance to such building, including walls, fences, light fixtures, steps,
paving, and signs shall require that such work be done in a manner that will
preserve the historical and architectural character of the building, structure,
or appurtenance. In considering historic and architectural character, the
Commission shall consider, among other things, the following:
      (1)   Purposes of this chapter;
      (2)   Historical and architectural value and significance of the
building, structure, site or appurtenance;
      (3)   Compatibility and significance of additions, alterations, details,
materials, or other non-original elements which may be of a different style and
construction date than the original;
      (4)   The texture, material, color, style, and detailing of the building,
structure, site or appurtenance;
      (5)   The continued preservation and protection of original or otherwise
significant structure, material, and ornamentation;
      (6)   The relationship of buildings, structures, appurtenances, or
architectural features similar to one within the same historic district,
including for primary areas, visual compatibility as defined in §
155.09(B); and
      (7)   The position of the building or structure in relation to the
street, public right-of- way and to other buildings and structures.
   (E)   Procedure for demolition upon denial of a certificate of
appropriateness. 
      (1)   The purpose of this division is to preserve historic buildings that
are important to the education, culture, traditions and economic values of the
town, and to afford the town, historical organizations, and other interested
persons the opportunity to acquire or to arrange for the preservation of these
buildings. If a property owner demonstrates that a historic building is
incapable of earning an economic return on its value, as appraised by a
qualified real estate appraiser, and the Commission fails to approve the
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness, the building may be demolished.
However, before a demolition permit is issued or demolition proceeds, the
following requirements for notice must be met:
         (a)   Notice of the proposed demolition must be given for a period
fixed by the Commission, based on the Commission's classification on the
approved map, but not less than 60 days nor more than one year.
         (b)   Notice must be posted on the premises of the building proposed
for demolition in a location clearly visible from the street.
         (c)   Notice must be published in a newspaper of general local
circulation at least three times before demolition, with the first publication
not more than 15 days after the application for a permit to demolish is filed,
and the final publication at least 15 days before the date of the permit.
      (2)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the notice period under this division (E). If the certificate is
approved, a demolition permit shall be issued without further delay, and
demolition may proceed.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.08 STAFF APPROVALS.
   (A)   The staff of the Commission, on behalf of the Commission, is
authorized to grant or deny an application for a certificate of
appropriateness.
   (B)   The staff of the Commission may not grant or deny an application for a
certificate of appropriateness for the following types of applications:
      (1)   The demolition of a building.
      (2)   The moving of a building.
      (3)   The construction of an addition to a building.
      (4)   The construction of a new building.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.09 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY.
   (A)   New buildings and nonhistoric buildings. Except as provided in §
155.05(D), the construction of a new building or structure, and the moving,
reconstruction, alteration, major maintenance, or repair involving a color
change conspicuously affecting the external appearance of any nonhistoric
building, structure, or appurtenance within the primary area of a historic
district must be generally of a design, form, proportion, mass, configuration,
building material, texture, color, and location on a lot compatible with other
buildings in the historic district, particularly with buildings designated as
historic, and with squares and places to which it is visually related.
   (B)   Criteria for considering visual compatibility. Except as provided in §
155.05(D), within the primary area of a historic district, new buildings and
structures, as well as buildings, structures, and appurtenances that are moved,
reconstructed, materially altered, repaired, or changed in color, must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares and places to which they are
visually related generally in terms of the following visual compatibility
factors:
      (1)   Height. The height of proposed buildings must be visually
compatible with adjacent buildings.
      (2)   Proportion of building's front facade. The relationship of the
width of a building to the height of the front elevation must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (3)   Proportion of openings within the facility. The relationship of the
width of the windows to the height of windows in a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (4)   Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. The relationship of
solids to voids in the front facade of a building must be visually compatible
with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (5)   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The relationship of a
building to the open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (6)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections. The relationship of
entrances and porch projections of a building to sidewalks must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (7)   Relationship of materials, texture, and color. The relationship of
the materials, texture, and color of the facade of a building must be visually
compatible with the predominant materials used in the buildings to which it is
visually related.
      (8)   Roof shapes. The roof shape of a building must be visually
compatible with the buildings to which it is visually related.
      (9)   Walls of continuity. Appurtenances of a building such as walls,
wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses, and building facades, must
form cohesive walls of enclosure along the street, if necessary to ensure
visual compatibility of the building to the buildings, squares, and places to
which it is visually related.
      (10)   Scale of a building. The size of a building, and the building mass
of a building in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches, and
balconies must be visually compatible with the buildings, squares, and places
to which it is visually related.
      (11)   Directional expression of front elevation. A building must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually
related in its directional character, including vertical character, horizontal
character, or nondirectional character.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.10 PRESERVATION OF HISTORICAL AND ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER UPON ALTERATION
OR RELOCATION MANDATED.
   (A)   A historic building or structure or any part of or appurtenance to
such a building or structure, including stone walls, fences, light fixtures,
steps, paving, and signs may be moved, reconstructed, altered, or maintained
only in a manner that will preserve the historical and architectural character
of the building, structure, or appurtenance.
   (B)   A historic building may be relocated to another site only if it is
shown that preservation on its current site is inconsistent with division (A).
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.11 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Historic buildings shall be maintained to meet the applicable
requirements established under state statute for buildings generally so as to
prevent the loss of historic material and the deterioration of important
character defining details and features.
   (B)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the ordinary repairs and maintenance of any historic
building, provided that such repairs or maintenance do not result in a
conspicuous change in the design, form, proportion, mass, configuration,
building material, texture, color, location, or external visual appearance of
any structure, or part thereof.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.12 RELATIONSHIP WITH ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of the historic district are
subject to the regulations for both the zoning district and the historic
district. If there is a conflict between the requirements of the zoning
district and the requirements of the historic district, the more restrictive
requirements apply.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.13 REMOVAL OF HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
   (A)   This section provides the exclusive method for removing the
designation of a historic district.
   (B)   The owner or owners of a building, structure, or site designated as a
single site historic district may sign and file a petition with the Town
Council requesting removal of the designation of the building, structure, or
site as a historic district. In the case of a historic district containing two
or more parcels, at least 60% of the owners of the real property of the
historic district may sign and file a petition with the Town Council requesting
removal of the designation of the historic district.
   (C)   The Town Council shall submit a petition filed under division (B) to
the Commission. The Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the petition
not later than 60 days after receiving the petition. The Commission shall
provide notice of the hearing:
      (1)   By publication under I.C. 5-3-1-2(b);
      (2)   In the case of a historic district comprised of real property owned
by fewer than 50 property owners, by certified mail, sent at least ten days
before the hearing, to each owner of real estate within the historic district;
and
      (3)   In the case of a single building, structure, or site designated as
a historic district, by certified mail, sent at least ten days before the
hearing, to each owner of the real estate abutting the building, structure, or
site designated as a historic district that is the subject of the petition.
   (D)   The Commission shall make the following findings after the public
hearing:
      (1)   Whether a building, structure, or site within the historic district
continues to meet the criteria for inclusion in a historic district as set
forth in the ordinance approving the historic district map under §
155.05. The determination must state specifically the criteria that are
applicable to the buildings, structures, or sites within the district.
      (2)   Whether failure to remove the designation of the historic district
would deny an owner of a building, structure, or site within the historic
district reasonable use of the owner's property or prevent reasonable economic
return. Evidence provided by the petitioner may include information on:
         (a)   Costs to comply with regulations;
         (b)   Income generation;
         (c)   Availability of contractors to perform work;
         (d)   Real estate values;
         (e)   Assessed values and taxes;
         (f)   Revenue projections;
         (g)   Current level of return;
         (h)   Operating expenses;
         (i)   Vacancy rates;
         (j)   Financing issues;
         (k)   Efforts to explore alternative uses for a property;
         (l)   Availability of economic incentives; and
         (m)   Recent efforts to sell or rent property.
      (3)   Whether removal of the designation of a historic district would
have an adverse economic impact on the owners of real estate abutting the
historic district, based on testimony and evidence provided by the owners of
the real estate and licensed real estate appraisers or brokers.
      (4)   Whether removal of or failure to remove the designation of the
historic district would have an adverse impact on the town's historic
resources, and specifically whether it would result in the loss of a building,
structure, or site classified as historic by the Commission's survey prepared
under §
155.04.
   (E)   Not later than ten days after the public hearing, the Commission shall
submit:
      (1)   Its findings on the petition; and
      (2)   A recommendation to grant or deny the petition to the Town Council.
   (F)   (1)   Not later than 45 days after receiving the Commission's
findings, the Town Council shall:
         (a)   Take public comment and receive evidence in support of or in
opposition to the petition; and
         (b)   Do one of the following:
            1.   Deny the petition.
            2.   Grant the petition by adopting an ordinance that removes the
designation of the historic district by:
               a.   A majority vote, if the recommendation of the Commission is
to grant the petition; or
               b.   A two-thirds vote, if the recommendation of the Commission
is to deny the petition.
      (2)   The Town Council shall record an ordinance adopted under division
(F)(1)(b) with the Franklin County Recorder not later than ten days after the
Town Council adopts the ordinance. The historic district designation is
considered removed on the date the ordinance is recorded with the Franklin
County Recorder.
   (G)   (1)   If the Town Council does not grant or deny the petition within
45 days after receiving the Commission's findings:
         (a)   The petition is considered granted or denied in accordance with
the recommendation of the Commission; and
         (b)   If the petition is considered granted, the Town Council shall,
not later than 55 days after receiving the Commission's findings:
            1.   Adopt an ordinance that removes the designation of the
historic district; and
            2.   Record the ordinance with the Franklin County Recorder.
      (2)   The historic district designation is considered removed on the date
the ordinance is recorded with the Franklin County Recorder.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.14 ENFORCEMENT BY INTERESTED PARTIES.
   (A)   An interested party (as defined in §
155.02) has a private right of action to enforce and prevent violation of a
provision of this chapter or an ordinance adopted by the town under this
chapter, and with respect to any building, structure, or site within a historic
district, and has the right to restrain, enjoin, or enforce by restraining
order or injunction, temporarily or permanently, any person from violating a
provision of this chapter or an ordinance adopted by the town under this
chapter.
   (B)   The interested party does not have to allege or prove irreparable harm
or injury to any person or property to obtain relief under this section.
   (C)   The interested party bringing an action under this section does not
have to post a bond unless the court, after a hearing, determines that a bond
should be required in the interest of justice.
   (D)   The interested party that brings an action under this section is not
liable to any person for damages resulting from bringing or prosecuting the
action unless the action was brought without good faith or without a reasonable
belief that a provision of this chapter, or an ordinance adopted by the Town
Council pursuant to this chapter, had been, or was about to be violated or
breached.
   (E)   An interested party who obtains a favorable judgment in an action
under this section may recover reasonable attorney's fees and court costs from
the person against whom judgment was rendered.
   (F)   An action arising under this section must be brought in the circuit or
superior court of the county in which the historic district lies and no change
of venue from the county shall be allowed in the action.
   (G)   The remedy provided in this section is in addition to other remedies
that may be available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 155.15 ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES, AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer, or otherwise, who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as follows, for each
offense:
      (1)   Not less than $10 nor more than $2,500 for demolition; and
      (2)   Not less than $10 nor more than $300 for all other offenses.
   (B)   Each day of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be a
separate offense.
   (C)   The erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
demolition, color change, moving, or maintenance of any building, structure, or
appurtenance which is begun, continued, or maintained contrary to any
provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and in violation
of this chapter and unlawful. The Town may institute a suit for injunction in
the Circuit Court or Superior Court of Franklin County to restrain any person
or government unit from violating any provision of this chapter and to cause
such violation to be prevented, abated, or removed. Such action may also be
instituted by any property owner who is adversely affected by the violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (E)   Any person or party aggrieved by a decision of the Commission shall be
entitled to judicial review under I.C. 36-7-4 as if it were a final decision of
a board of zoning appeals.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-28-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES; AGREEMENTS AND APPLICATIONS
      
II.   REZONINGS
      
III.   VACATIONS AND CLOSURES; OPENINGS
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
V.   ANNEXATIONS
      
VI.   REVITALIZATION AREAS; INFRASTRUCTURE
      
VII.   BONDS
      
VIII.   FUNDS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES; AGREEMENTS AND APPLICATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
2-    - -    Granting a cable television franchise to Connersville Cable TV, Inc.
1978  1978
           (1980 Code, §§ 5-1 through 5-11)
1-    5-22-  Authorizing the Council President to enter into a contract for garbage and
1984  1984   refuse collection with Rumpke of Indiana, Inc.
3-    11-9-  Regulating the basic service tier rates and charges of cable television
1993  1993   operating systems
R. 3- 2-28-  Agreeing to have the county provide election services
1995  1995
R. 1- 3-25-  Authorizing the application submission and local match commitment of the CFF
1997  1997   grant application to the state’s Department of Commerce; addressing related
             matters
R. 2- 12-14- Adopting Keystone Consulting Services, Inc., financial software systems
2004  2004
R. 1- 3-22-  Adopting Keystone Consulting Services, Inc., financial software systems
2005  2005
R. 9- 8-26-  Authorizing the submission of the CFF application to the state’s Office of
2008  2008   Community and Rural Affairs; addressing related matters
R. 2- 2-24-  Authorizing the submission of the CFF application to the state’s Office of
2009  2009   Community and Rural Affairs; addressing related matters
R. 9- 11-12- Authorizing the submission of the CDBG planning grant application to the
2013  2013   state’s Office of Community and Rural Affairs; addressing related matters
R.    9-28-  Authorizing the submission of HELP designation application for a joint
2021- 2021   application between the Town of Brookville and the Franklin County Indiana
7            Commissioners
2021- 11-9-  Authorizing the President to execute any INDOT agreements, contracts, and all
24    2021   other documents related thereto and all documents related to any INDOT grant
             programs
R.    10-18- Authorizing the submittal of the CDBG-Preserving Main Street Construction
2022- 2022   grant application to the Indiana Office of Community and Rural Affairs;
6            addressing related matters
R.    12-31- Joint agreement of Franklin County and Brookville, Indiana to fund HELP Grant
2022- 2022   Community Coordinator position
13
2023- 1-19-  Authorizing the President to execute any INDOT agreements, contracts, and all
1     2023   other documents related thereto and all documents related to any INDOT grant
             programs
            
 
TABLE II: REZONINGS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          (1) Rezoning land between Main Street and the first
-             5-17-1965   alley to the west (between Main and Cliff Streets)
                          and between Eighth and Ninth Streets from Residential
                          2 (R2) to General Business (GB)
                          (2) Rezoning the Riverview Heights Subdivision from
                        Primary Residence (R1) to Secondary Residence (R2)
                          (reversed per L. Bascom on 8-10-1983)
                        (3) Correcting the zoning boundaries which annexed
                          the Riverview Heights Subdivision
                        (1980 Code, § 15-1)
                          Rezoning several tracts of land from Floodplain
-             12-14-1976  classification, on account of change from
                          classification
                        (1980 Code, § 15-2)
                          Amending the zoning classification of a certain tract
2-1988        6-28-1988   of land from Residential 2 (R2) District to General
                          Business (GB) District
                          Application of George Gillman; amending zoning
1-1995        4-25-1995   classification from Residential-3 District to Unit
                          Development for certain real estate
                          Application of Martha Shea; amending zoning
2-1999        5-25-1999   classification from Residential-3 District to Local
                          Business District for certain real estate
                          Application of Joe Shumate; amending zoning
3-1999        6-22-1999   classification from General Business District to Unit
                          Development District for certain real estate
                          Application of Main Meat Market, Inc.; amending
6-2005        11-8-2005   zoning classification from Residential-2 District to
                          General Business District
                          Application of CVS: amending zoning classification
3-2013        6-25-2013   from Residential R-3 District to General Business
                          District
                          Area as described by Ord. 2018-3 is hereby
2018-3        4-24-2018   reclassified from Residential-3 District to Local
                          Business District
                         
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS AND CLOSURES; OPENINGS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
-     - -    Vacating the alley between Lots 3, 4 and 5 on the east and Lots 6, 7 and 8 on
             the west in Jane McCarty’s addition of the plat of the town
           (1980 Code, § 13-6)
1-    2-13-  Vacating a portion of a public way for certain petitioners
1989  1989
2-    6-26-  Vacating an alley on behalf of First Baptist Church of Brookville
1990  1990
4-    9-25-  Closing and vacating an alley for certain petitioners
1990  1990
1-    1-8-   Closing and vacating an alley for certain petitioners
1991  1991
4-    12-14- Vacating a portion of an alley for certain petitioners
1993  1993
3-    1-25-  Vacating portions of Canal Street and State Street for certain petitioners
1994  1994
3-    9-26-  Vacating a portion of platted street and alley on behalf of several
1995  1995   petitioners
2-    7-23-  Reopening an alley and a public way for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of
2002  2002   Indianapolis Properties, Inc.
4-    8-13-  Vacating an alley and a public way for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of
2002  2002   Indianapolis Properties, Inc.
1-    6-10-  Vacating a portion of an alley for utility purposes
2003  2003
4-    7-13-  Vacating a portion of a street and a portion of an alley in Amos Butler’s
2004  2004   plat of the town
1,    3-28-  Vacating a portion of John Street, parts of platted 14th Street and an alley
2006  2006   within St. Michael Cemetery for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of
             Indianapolis Properties, Inc.
2,    3-28-  Vacating a part of High Street for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of
2006  2006   Indianapolis Properties, Inc.
5-    9-25-  Vacating portions of platted streets and alleys on behalf of several
2007  2007   petitioners
4-    10-17- Vacating a portion of an alley in Margaret Smiester’s Addition on behalf of
2014  2014   BAM Investments, LLC
2-    3-24-  Vacating a portion of an alley in John Allen’s Plat on behalf of John C.
2015  2015   Mullins and Donna J. Mullins
2017- 7-25-  Vacation of portions of Murphy Street and Franklin Avenue (also historically
3     2017   known as Main Street)
2019- 6-25-  Vacation of an alley located between Lots 12 and 11; and Lots 17 and 18, all
5     2019   in Mary and W.W. Butler’s addition to the town
2020- 5-26-  Vacation of portions of Main Street and Murphy Street on behalf of William V.
6     2020   and Cassandra L. Schirmer
2022- 5-10-  Vacation of portion of Centre Road on behalf of Mark and Kristin Shires
12    2022
2023- 7-17-  Vacation of portion of an alley and Jones Street on behalf of Kelly Race
7     2023   Cramer
2025- 4-21-  Vacation of an alley lying between Lots 22 and 23
10    2025
            
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 2003-11    4-21-2003   Transferring title of a vehicle from the county to
                          the Town Police Department; surplus property
R. 1-2003     4-22-2003   Transferring title of a vehicle from the county to
                          the Town Police Department; surplus property
R. 6-2008     6-24-2008   Conveyance of real property from the town to the
                          Veterans of Foreign Wars, Brookville Post 214
R. 2-2010     1-26-2010   Sale and purchase of a tax sale certificate for a
                          parcel of land
R. 3-2013     9-10-2013   Purchase of INDOT real estate located at corner of
                          U.S. Highway 52 and St. Rd. 1 for development of CVS
                          Approving transfer of real estate to Cedarwood
R. 8-2013     11-12-2013  Development located at U.S. Highway 52 and St. Rd. 1
                          for development of CVS
                          Confirming interest by the town in the purchase of
R. 2021-4     8-24-2021   real estate commonly known as 11175 Fairway Lane,
                          from Brook Hill Golf Club Preservation, LLC
R. 2023-6     12-4-2023   Accepting land transfer of Parcel Number 24-10-20-
                          457-001.00 0-004 from the County of Franklin, Indiana
                          Transferring three Yamaha golf carts currently in
R. 2025-3     3-17-2025   possession of the town to Franklin County Community
                          School Corporation
R. 2025-5     5-5-2025    Transferring real property located at 1020 Franklin
                          Avenue to the Franklin County School Corporation
                         
 
TABLE V: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
4-1995        10-10-1995  Annexing specific territory into the town
R. 5-1995     10-10-1995  Resolving to annexing specific territory into the
                          town
2-2000        11-14-2000  Annexing contiguous property into the town
                         
 
TABLE VI: REVITALIZATION AREAS; INFRASTRUCTURE
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. Date       Description
No.       Passed
                     Declaring a certain area within the town as an Economic
R. 2-1993 4-8-1997   Revitalization Area for purposes of personal and real
                     property tax abatement; time and place for public hearing
R. 3-2005 10-25-2005 Accepting the town’s Downtown Revitalization Planning
                     Study
R. 3-2008 6-10-2008  Accepting the town’s Infrastructure Feasibility Planning
                     Study
                     Declaring a certain area within the town as an Economic
R. 3-2012 7-24-2012  Revitalization Area for purposes of tax abatement; time
                     and place for public hearing
2017-2    5-23-2017  Establishing a Municipal Riverfront Development Project
                     Area
                     Approving a declaratory resolution and amended economic
R. 2017-4 4-25-2017  development plan of the redevelopment commission and
                     approving the order of the Franklin County Area Plan
                     Commission
R. 2017-5 5-9-2017   Regarding the amendment of the Economic Development Plan
                     for the Main Street Economic Development Area
R. 2018-1 5-8-2018   Establishing the Valley House Economic Revitalization Area
R. 2-2018 6-14-2018  Ratifying final action establishing the Valley House
                     Economic Revitalization Area
R. 3-2018 6-14-2018  Approving statement of benefits for real property tax
                     abatement
R. 2019-  10-22-2019 Establishing the State Road 101 Economic Revitalization
R-5                  Area
R. 2019-  11-12-2019 Ratifying final action establishing the State Road 101
R-7                  Economic Revitalization Area
R. 2019-  11-26-2019 Approving an amendment to the Economic Development Plan
10                   for the Main Street Economic Development Area
R. 2022-7 11-1-2022  Approving statement of benefits for real property tax
                     abatement
R. 2022-8 12-6-2022  Approval of a CDBG Planning Grant-Commercial Building
                     Facade Planning Study
                    
 
TABLE VII: BONDS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
5-1989        10-10-1989  Supplementing Ord. 3-1976, concerning the issuance of
                          revenue bonds for the sewage works
1-1990        3-27-1990   Issuing revenue bonds for the sewage works of the
                          town
6-2013        11-26-2013  Issuing revenue bonds for the sewage works of the
                          town
                         
 
TABLE VIII: FUNDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2-1965        - -1965     Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund; depositing
                          cigarette taxes
                        (1980 Code, §§ 2-15, 2-16)
R. 1-1979     - -1979     Police and Fire Equipment Fund; funds for motor
                          vehicles
                        (1980 Code, §§ 2-17—2-20)
4-1994        4-12-1994   Cumulative Capital Development Fund; assessed
                          valuation
1-1996        3-26-1996   Building Fund; purchasing real estate
98-3          12-22-1998  Specific Purpose Special Revenue Fund; purchase of
                          real estate
2-2004        6-22-2004   Rainy Day Fund; special income tax distributions
5-2004        11-9-2004   Police Fund-Raising and Donation Fund; paying
                          expenses for training and meetings
1-2005        2-22-2005   Grandstand Donations and Insurance Proceeds Fund;
                          costs to rebuild historic grandstand
3-2009        5-26-2009   Police Officers Reimbursement Fund; monies earned
                          while on duty
3-2010        2-23-2010   Police Fund-Raising and Donation Fund; paying
                          expenses for training and meetings
5-2015        4-28-2015   Cumulative Capital Development Fund; assessed
                          valuation
                          Public Safety Fund; established for police and law
2-2016        5-24-2016   enforcement system, firefighting and fire prevention
                          system, and emergency action
                          Local ARP Fund; cover costs related to COVID-19 or
2021-6        5-25-2021   its impacts, and to make investments in
                          infrastructure
                          K-9 Donation Fund; established for the acquisition,
2021-14       7-13-2021   training, and maintenance of animals used by the Town
                          of Brookville Police Department
2021-15       7-27-2021   OCRA COVID-19 Response Phase Grant III Fund;
                          depositing funds into general fund
2021-20       9-14-2021   Winter Wonderland and Donations Fund
2021-21       9-14-2021   Shop With a Cop Donation Fund
2021-25       12-14-2021  COVID-19 FEMA Grant Fund
2021-26       12-14-2021  Municipal Facilities Construction Project Fund
2022-2        1-25-2022   FEMA 2020 AFG Grant Fund
2022-11       5-10-2022   Preserving Main Street Grant Fund
2022-19       11-1-2022   IDDC Grant Fund
2022-20       11-1-2022   Municipal Parking Lot Mural Grant Fund
2022-28       12-31-2022  Opioid Settlement Restricted/Unrestricted Funds
2023-10       8-21-2023   Preserving Main Street Grant Escrow Fund
2024-5        3-18-2023   Pickleball Sports Complex Grant Fund
2024-14       8-19-2024   MH Foundation Grant Fund
2024-20       11-4-2024   National Night Out Grant Fund
2025-1        1-9-2025    Be Bold Brookville IEDC Grant Fund
2025-7        3-3-2025    Sportsplex Construction Fund
2025-8        3-17-2025   Crawley Memorial Park Donations Fund
2025-17       10-6-2025   Comprehensive Plan Grant Fund
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1980 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section               Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.12
1-1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08
3-8-5-2(a) and (c)         30.01
3-8-5-10                   30.01
3-8-6                      30.01
3-10-7-2.7                 30.01
5-2-8-2                    32.30,
                           32.31
5-3-1-2(b)                 155.13
5-4-1                      30.22
5-4-11                     30.20
5-10.1-2-1 to 5-10.1-6-4   30.02
5-10.3-2-l et seq.         30.03
5-13-9                     31.07
5-13-9-2(a)(1)             31.07
5-13-9-2(a)(2)             31.07
5-13-9-2(a)(3)             31.07
5-13-9-2.5                 31.07
5-13-9-3                   31.07
5-13-9-3.3                 31.07
5-13-9-3.5                 31.07
5-13-9-4                   31.07
5-13-9-4(b)                31.07
5-13-9-5                   31.07
5-13-9-5.3                 31.07
5-13-9-5.6                 31.07
5-13-9-5.7                 31.07
5-13-9-11                  31.07
5-14-3                     31.07
5-14-6                     30.37
5-28-28.5                  154.02
5-28-28.5-0.5              154.01
7.1-3-1-14                 112.07
                           112.01,
7.1-3-31 et seq.           112.06,
                           112.12
7.1-3-31-15                112.08
7.1-3-31-16                112.08
8-1-2-1(g)                 154.01
8-14-2-1(b)                90.05
8-23-4-1 et seq.           Ch. 90
9-13-2-1                   94.02
9-13-2-122                 94.02
9-13-2-196                 94.02
9-18-12                    94.02
9-22-1-1 through 9-22-1-32 94.01,
                           94.03
9-22-1-2                   94.03
9-22-1-4                   94.04
9-22-1-8                   94.04
9-22-1-11                  94.05
9-22-1-12                  94.06
9-22-1-14                  94.07
9-22-1-32                  94.08
9-25-4-5                   71.01
9-30-15                    112.08
10-14-3-12                 32.70
10-14-3-29                 32.70
13-22                      153.01
14-8-2-5.7                 71.01
14-8-2-233.5               71.01
14-21-1-19                 155.02
18-1-1.5-19                Ch. 130
18-5-10-4 to 18-5-10-6     Ch. 90
21-1-2 et seq.             Ch. 90
22-9-5-6                   95.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.           95.01
22-9.5-2-2                 95.02
22-9.5-2-3                 95.02
22-9.5-2-4                 95.02
22-9.5-2-8                 95.02
22-9.5-2-9                 95.02
22-9.5-2-11                95.02
22-9.5-2-13                95.02
22-9.5-3                   95.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.           95.10
22-9.5-4-1 et seq.         95.02
22-9.5-4-8                 95.11
22-9.5-5                   95.02
22-9.5-5-1                 95.03
22-9.5-6                   95.02,
                           95.11
22-11-14-1 et seq.         Ch. 92
22-12                      150.06
31-6-4-15.7                130.04
31-37-19-27                130.04
34-28-5                    71.99
35-44-2-1                  51.999
36-1-2-5                   32.70
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-5-2                   30.05
36-1-6-2                   32.33
36-1-6-3                   93.08
36-1-7                     31.07
36-1-20.2                  30.05
36-1-21                    30.05
36-4-6-11                  30.05
36-5-2-2                   10.15
36-5-2-9.4                 30.05
36-5-5                     30.22
36-5-5-2                   30.22
36-5-6                     30.20
36-5-7                     30.21
36-5-7-6                   30.21
36-7-1.0-1 et seq.         30.65
36-7-2                     153.01
36-7-4                     153.01,
                           155.15
36-7-4                     30.38
                           30.50,
36-7-4-0.1                 30.51,
                           30.65
36-7-4-202                 30.53
36-7-9                     150.01
36-7-9-2                   150.01
36-7-12                    30.67
36-7-12-4                  30.50,
                           30.66
36-7-14 et al.             30.38
36-7-14-7                  30.36
36-7-14-12.2               30.38
36-7-14-13                 30.37
36-7-14-13(d)              30.37
36-7-14-20                 30.38
36-7-14.5                  30.38
36-7-14.5-6                30.38
36-8-2-10                  154.01
36-8-3 et seq.             30.80,
                           30.84
36-9                       153.01
36-9-1-8                   51.003,
                           51.113
36-9-2-15                  154.01
36-9-23                    Ch. 50,
                           52.06
36-9-23-0.1 et seq.        Ch. 51
36-9-23-2                  Ch. 51
 
 
REFERENCES TO 1980 CODE
1980 Code Section 2014 Code Section
1980 Code Section 2014 Code Section
1-7               11.01
2-1               30.20
2-2               30.20
2-3               30.21
2-4               30.21
2-6               30.01
2-7               30.50
2-8               30.51
2-9               30.52
2-10              30.53
2-11              30.54
2-12              30.65
2-13              30.66
2-14              30.67
2-15              TSO Table VIII
2-16              TSO Table VIII
2-17              TSO Table VIII
2-18              TSO Table VIII
2-19              TSO Table VIII
2-20              TSO Table VIII
2-21              30.02
2-22              30.02
2-23              30.02
2-24              30.03
2-25              30.03
2-26              30.03
2-27              30.03
4-1               151.02
4-2               151.99
4-3               151.02
4-4               151.02
4-5               151.03
4-6               151.04
4-7               151.05
4-8               151.06,
                  151.99
4-9               151.06
4-10              151.06
5-1               TSO Table I
5-2               TSO Table I
5-3               TSO Table I
5-4               TSO Table I
5-5               TSO Table I
5-6               TSO Table I
5-7               TSO Table I
5-8               TSO Table I
5-9               TSO Table I
5-10              TSO Table I
5-11              TSO Table I
6-1               92.01
6-2               92.35
6-3               92.36
6-4               92.37
6-5               92.38
9-1               130.05
9-2               130.05
10-1              91.01
10-2              91.02
10-3              91.03
10-4              91.04
10-5              91.15
10-6              91.16
10-7              91.17
10-8              91.18
10-9              91.19
10-10             91.20
11-1              130.01
11-3              130.02
11-4              130.03
12-1              110.01
12-2              110.02
12-3              110.03
12-4              110.04
13-1              90.01
13-2              90.02,
                  90.99
13-3              90.03
13-4              90.04
13-5              90.05
13-6              TSO Table III
14-1              50.15
                  50.16—
14-2              50.32 ,
                  50.99
14-3              51.001
14-4              51.002
14-5              51.003
14-6              51.004
14-7              51.005
14-8              51.020
14-9              51.021
14-10             51.022
14-11             51.023
14-12             51.024
14-13             51.025
14-14             51.026
14-15             51.040
14-16             51.041
14-18             51.042
14-19             51.043
14-20             51.044
14-22             51.045
14-23             51.046
14-24             51.060
14-25             51.061
14-26             51.062
14-27             51.999
14-29             51.076
14-30             51.077
14-31             51.006
14-32             51.007
14-33             51.008
14-34             51.090
14-35             51.091
14-36             51.092
14-37             51.093
14-38             51.094
15-1              153.01,
                  TSO Table II
15-2              TSO Table II
                  
 
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2-11-07  - -1907     30.21
1-1979   - -1979     TSO Table VIII
3-1995   2-28-1995   TSO Table I
5-1995   10-10-1995  TSO Table V
1-1996   1-9-1996    30.06
2-1996   1-9-1996    30.07
3-1996   1-9-1996    30.08
4-1996   3-26-1996   31.02
1-1997   3-25-1997   TSO Table I
2-1993   4-8-1997    TSO Table VI
2-2001   12-26-2001  151.01
2003-11  4-21-2003   TSO Table IV
1-2003   4-22-2003   TSO Table IV
2-2004   12-14-2004  TSO Table I
1-2005   3-22-2005   TSO Table I
3-2005   10-25-2005  TSO Table VI
3-2008   6-10-2008   TSO Table VI
6-2008   6-24-2008   TSO Table IV
9-2008   8-26-2008   TSO Table I
1-2009   1-13-2009   32.01
2-2009   2-24-2009   TSO Table I
3-2009   3-10-2009   32.15—
                     32.19
2-2010   1-26-2010   TSO Table IV
1-2012   2-14-2012   30.04
2-2012   3-13-2012   31.01
3-2012   7-24-2012   TSO Table VI
8-2012   - -2012     90.06
3-2013   9-10-2013   TSO Table IV
8-2013   11-12-2013  TSO Table IV
9-2013   11-12-2013  TSO Table I
2014-4   10-28-2014  151.01
5-2015   10-31-2014  151.01
5-2016   9-27-2016   30.11
7-2016   11-8-2016   130.06
2017-4   4-25-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-5   5-9-2017    TSO Table VI
2018-1   5-8-2018    TSO Table VI
2-2018   6-14-2018   TSO Table VI
3-2018   6-14-2018   TSO Table VI
2019-R-5 10-22-2019  TSO Table VI
2019-R-7 11-12-2019  TSO Table VI
2019-10  11-26-2019  TSO Table VI
2020-4   8-25-2020   90.07
2021-4   8-24-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-7   9-28-2021   TSO Table I
2022-3   7-27-2022   32.70
2022-6   10-18-2022  TSO Table I
2022-7   11-1-2022   TSO Table VI
2022-8   12-6-2022   TSO Table VI
2022-10  2-2-2023    31.06
2022-13  12-31-2022  TSO Table I
2023-1   2-16-2023   32.90 -
                     32.102
2023-3   6-15-2023   32.94
2023-6   12-4-2023   TSO Table IV
2025-2   2-18-2025   151.01
2025-3   3-17-2025   TSO Table IV
2025-5   5-5-2025    TSO Table IV
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         - -         TSO Table III
1-1977    - -         51.001
2-1970    - -         90.01
2-1976    - -         50.15
2-1979    - -         50.15
3-1970    - -         90.01
3-1973    - -         90.05
3-1977    - -         51.002
4-1970    - -         90.02,
                      90.99
4-1976    - -         30.66,
                      30.67
5-28-17   - -         92.35—
                      92.38
12-10-74  - -         30.03
7-22-1895 - -1895     30.20
-         7-22-1895   130.02,
                      130.03
-         5-26-1903   90.03,
                      90.04
-         3-13-1922   151.06
-         1-11-1926   130.01
2-1956    - -1956     30.02
4A-1962   - -1962     30.50 
                      30.54
1-1963    - -1963     30.01
2-1965    - -1965     TSO Table VIII
-         5-17-1965   153.01,
                      TSO Table II
3-1967    - -1967     110.01 —
                      110.04
4-1969    - -1969     151.02,
                      151.99
2-1974    - -1974     30.65
-         1-28-1975   151.03 —
                      151.05
-         12-14-1976  TSO Table II
                      51.003,
                      51.005,
                      51.021,
                      51.026,
1-1977    - -1977     51.045,
                      51.046,
                      51.060 —
                      51.062,
                      51.999
                      51.003,
2-1977    - -1977     51.090 —
                      51.094
                      51.003,
                      51.006 —
3-1977    - -1977     51.008,
                      51.076,
                      51.077
2-1978    - -1978     TSO Table I
1-1984    5-22-1984   TSO Table I
1-1985    10-22-1985  70.005
2-1988    6-28-1988   TSO Table II
4-1989    - -1989     153.01
1-1989    2-13-1989   TSO Table III
5-1989    10-10-1989  TSO Table VII
1-1990    3-27-1990   TSO Table VII
2-1990    6-26-1990   TSO Table III
                      130.35 —
3-1990    8-28-1990   130.38,
                      130.99
4-1990    9-25-1990   TSO Table III
1-1991    1-8-1991    TSO Table III
1-1993    7-27-1993   50.01
3-1993    11-9-1993   TSO Table I
-         12-14-1993  30.04
4-1993    12-14-1993  TSO Table III
3-1994    1-25-1994   TSO Table III
4-1994    4-12-1994   TSO Table VIII
                      92.15 —
6-1994    11-22-1994  92.20,
                      92.99
                      130.20 —
8-1994    11-22-1994  130.24,
                      130.99
1-1995    4-25-1995   TSO Table II
3-1995    9-26-1995   TSO Table III
4-1995    10-10-1995  TSO Table V
-         10-24-1995  153.01
1-1996    3-26-1996   TSO Table VIII
-         11-26-1996  153.01
-         11-26-1996  153.01
-         11-26-1996  153.01
-         7-14-1997   153.01
-         7-14-1997   153.01
-         1-13-1998   153.01
-         1-13-1998   153.01
-         1-13-1998   153.01
-         1-13-1998   153.01
-         1-13-1998   153.01
1-1998    7-28-1998   31.15 —
                      31.21
98-3      12-22-1998  TSO Table VIII
2-1999    5-25-1999   TSO Table II
3-1999    6-22-1999   TSO Table II
-         11-9-1999   153.01
-         11-9-1999   153.01
-         11-9-1999   153.01
-         11-9-1999   153.01
1-2000    6-27-2000   94.01 —
                      94.10
2-2000    11-14-2000  TSO Table V
1-2001    6-26-2001   130.04
                      50.15,
                      50.18 —
3-2001    8-28-2001   50.23,
                      50.25 
                      50.32,
                      50.99
4-2001    8-28-2001   51.020,
                      51.024
2-2002    7-23-2002   TSO Table III
4-2002    8-13-2002   TSO Table III
3-2002    11-12-2002  30.01
5-2002    11-26-2002  30.01
1-2003    6-10-2003   TSO Table III
                      52.01 —
3-2003    10-14-2003  52.09,
                      52.99
6-2007    10-14-2003  52.06
2-2004    6-22-2004   TSO Table VIII
4-2004    7-13-2004   TSO Table III
5-2004    11-9-2004   TSO Table VIII
1-2005    2-22-2005   TSO Table VIII
                      95.01 —
                      95.08,
2-2005    4-12-2005   95.10 —
                      95.12,
                      95.99
4-2005    6-28-2005   152.01
6-2005    11-8-2005   TSO Table II
1, 2006   3-28-2006   TSO Table III
2, 2006   3-28-2006   TSO Table III
                      150.01 —
                      150.06,
                      150.20 
2007-1    6-12-2007   150.27,
                      150.40 —
                      150.47,
                      150.99
3-2007    8-28-2007   50.15,
                      50.24
5-2007    9-25-2007   TSO Table III
5-2008    1-13-2009   50.17
1-2009    2-24-2009   30.09
                      70.001 —
                      70.005,
                      70.020 —
                      70.025,
                      70.028,
                      70.029,
2-2009    5-12-2009   70.040 —
                      70.051,
                      70.065 —
                      70.070,
                      70.999,
                      Ch. 72, Schd. I, 
                      II
3-2009    5-26-2009   TSO Table VIII
                      71.02,
1-2010    1-26-2010   71.15  —
                      1.19
3-2010    2-23-2010   TSO Table VIII
                      51.110 —
                      51.115,
                      51.125 
                      51.131,
                      51.145 —
                      51.149,
                      51.165 —
                      51.171,
                      51.185 —
                      51.192,
                      51.205 —
                      51.217,
         - -2011     51.230,
                      51.231,
                      51.245 —
                      51.253,
                      51.265 —
                      51.268,
                      51.280 —
                      51.282,
                      51.295 —
                      51.301,
                      51.315 —
                      51.324,
                      51.335 —
                      51.337
3-2011    - -2011     50.15,
                      153.01
4-2011    7-12-2011   153.01
1-2012    6-26-2012   153.01
2-2012    6-26-2012   30.05
5-2012    11-27-2012  30.35 —
                      30.38
7-2012    12-11-2012  30.01
                      150.01 —
                      150.06,
                      150.20 —
2-2013    8-6-2013    150.27,
                      150.40 —
                      150.47,
                      150.99
3-2013    6-25-2013   TSO Table II
4-2013    10-8-2013   152.01
6-2013    11-26-2013  TSO Table VII
                      95.01 —
7-2013    12-10-2013  95.12,
                      95.99
8-2013    12-10-2013  30.10
2014-1    1-14-2014   93.10
4-2014    10-17-2014  TSO Table III
2-2015    3-24-2015   TSO Table III
3-2015    4-28-2015   50.15
4-2015    4-28-2015   51.075
5-2015    4-28-2015   TSO Table VIII
6-2015    8-25-2015   93.01 -
                      93.09
1-2016    2-23-2016   30.04
2-2016    5-24-2016   TSO Table VIII
2016-3    6-14-2016   70.026
4-2016    6-28-2016   31.03
5-2016    7-26-2016   153.01
6-2016    8-9-2016    153.01
2017-1    2-14-2017   52.06
2017-2    5-23-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-3    7-25-2017   TSO Table III
2018-3    4-24-2018   TSO Table II
2018-1    5-9-2018    70.048
2018-5    12-11-2018  153.01
2018-6    12-11-2018  153.01
2018-7    12-11-2018  153.01
2018-8    12-11-2018  153.01
2018-9    12-11-2018  153.01
2018-10   12-11-2018  153.01
2018-11   12-11-2018  153.01
2018-12   12-11-2018  153.01
2018-13   12-11-2018  153.01
2019-3    6-10-2019   95.01 -
                      95.12
2019-4    6-11-2019   30.10
2019-5    6-25-2019   TSO Table III
2019-6    7-23-2019   150.41
2020-2    1-14-2020   153.01
2020-6    5-26-2021   TSO Table III
2020-7    7-14-2020   153.01
2020-8    7-14-2020   153.01
2020-9    7-14-2020   153.01
2020-10   7-14-2020   153.01
2020-11   7-14-2020   153.01
2020-12   8-11-2020   32.40 -
                      32.50
2020-13   9-8-2020    31.05
2020-14   10-13-2020  50.33
                      71.01,
2020-15   10-13-2020  71.02,
                      71.99
2020-16   11-10-2020  71.18,
                      71.99
2021-1    2-9-2021    50.15
2021-2    2-9-2021    51.075
2021-3    3-23-2021   32.30 -
                      32.35
                      111.01 -
2021-4    3-23-2021   111.04,
                      111.99
2021-5    3-9-2021    31.04
2021-6    5-25-2021   TSO Table VIII
2021-7    5-25-2021   153.01
2021-8    5-25-2021   153.01
2021-9    5-25-2021   153.01
2021-10   5-25-2021   153.01
                      94.05 -
2021-11   5-25-2021   94.07,
                      94.10
                      70.048,
2021-12   5-25-2021   70.049,
                      70.051
2021-14   7-13-2021   TSO Table VIII
2021-15   7-27-2021   TSO Table VIII
                      71.01,
2021-16   7-27-2021   71.02,
                      71.99
2021-17   7-27-2021   71.17
2021-19   9-14-2021   31.05
2021-20   9-14-2021   TSO Table VIII
2021-21   9-14-2021   TSO Table VIII
2021-23   11-9-2021   153.01
2021-24   11-9-2021   TSO Table I
2021-25   12-14-2021  TSO Table VIII
2021-26   12-14-2021  TSO Table VIII
2021-29   12-28-2021  155.01 —
                      155.15
2022-2    1-25-2022   TSO Table VIII
2022-4    3-1-2022    50.17
2022-6    3-15-2022   153.01
2022-7    3-15-2022   153.01
2022-8    3-15-2022   153.01
2022-9    3-15-2022   153.01
2022-10   4-5-2022    31.16,
                      31.17
2022-11   5-10-2022   TSO Table VIII
2022-12   5-10-2022   TSO Table III
2022-15   10-18-2022  30.80 —
                      30.84
2022-17   11-1-2022   50.15
2022-18   11-1-2022   51.075
2022-19   11-1-2022   TSO Table VIII
2022-20   11-1-2022   TSO Table VIII
2022-21   11-1-2022   30.81
2022-22   12-6-2022   153.01
2022-24   12-6-2022   30.85
2022-26   2-21-2023   50.18,
                      50.19
2022-27   1-19-2023   51.020
2022-28   12-31-2022  TSO Table VIII
2023-1    1-19-2023   TSO Table I
2023-2    3-2-2023    153.01
2023-3    3-2-2023    153.01
2023-4    4-6-2023    30.01
2023-7    7-17-2023   TSO Table III
2023-8    8-21-2023   153.01
2023-9    8-21-2023   153.01
2023-10   8-21-2023   TSO Table VIII
2023-11   10-2-2023   30.22
2023-12   9-18-2023   151.02
2023-14   10-16-2023  150.27
2023-15   11-6-2023   31.07
2024-2    2-5-2024    153.01
                      70.004,
2024-4    3-4-2024    70.999,
                      Ch. 72, Schd. I,
                      II
2024-5    3-18-2023   TSO Table VIII
2024-6    5-6-2024    154.01 
                      154.03
2024-7    -           153.01
                      112.01 —
2024-10   6-17-2024   112.17,
                      112.99
2024-11   6-17-2024   72.01
2024-14   8-19-2024   TSO Table VIII
2024-15   8-19-2024   153.01
2024-16   9-3-2024    31.08
2024-19   2-3-2025    50.18,
                      51.075
2024-20   11-4-2024   TSO Table VIII
2024-21   12-2-2024   Ch. 72, Schd. II
2024-23   12-16-2024  153.01
2024-24   1-9-2025    153.01
2025-1    1-9-2025    TSO Table VIII
2025-01   1-22-2025   153.01
2025-3    1-21-2025   52.06
2025-6    2-18-2025   153.01
2025-7    3-3-2025    TSO Table VIII
2025-8    3-17-2025   TSO Table VIII
2025-9    5-5-2025    153.01
2025-10   4-21-2025   TSO Table III
2025-13   6-16-2025   153.01
2025-14   6-16-2025   50.34
2025-16   9-2-2025    31.09
2025-17   10-6-2025   TSO Table VIII
2025-19   11-17-2025  150.41
2025-21   11-17-2025  31.16 —
                      31.18
                     
 
 
