COUNTY OF LAWRENCE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-19-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   COUNTY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Name
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation, construction
   
10.03   Definitions
   
10.04   Discovery of errors, omissions
   
10.05   Repeal of ordinances
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Invalidity
   
10.08   Provisions on a county-wide basis
   
10.09   Temporary, special nature
   
10.10   Numbering of chapters, subchapters, sections, divisions
   
10.11   Availability of code to public
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 NAME.
   The name of this code is the “Lawrence County Code,” “this code,” or “this
county code.”
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION, CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The construction of ordinances contained in this county code shall be
by the following rules, unless such a construction would be obviously against
the intent of the Board of Commissioners or against the context of the same
ordinance.
   (B)   Generally, words and phrases shall be understood in their plain,
ordinary, and usual sense. But technical words and phrases having a peculiar
and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
   (C)   Words importing a joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as authority to a majority of such persons, unless otherwise declared
in the ordinance giving such authority.
   (D)   Words in the singular shall include the plural, and likewise words in
the plural shall include the singular.
   (E)   Each section, chapter, subchapter, and division of this code is
declared to be separable. Further, should any section be declared to be invalid
by any court of law, this shall nevertheless not be construed by any such court
to adversely affect the remaining portion of this code in any manner.
   (F)   The male gender shall include the female gender and the neuter; the
female shall include the male gender and the neuter; the neuter gender shall
include both the male and female genders.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The masculine shall include both the feminine and neuter.
      (2)   Words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the
plural shall include words in the singular.
      (3)   When a general term follows a specific enumeration of terms, the
general term is not limited to the class so specifically enumerated, unless
such intention is clear.
      (4)   Tensed words used in the past and present tenses include the future
tense by implication, unless otherwise stated.
      (5)   The term ELECTED COUNTY OFFICIAL shall include the County
Commissioners, County Council, County Auditor, Recorder, Treasurer, Assessor,
Surveyor, and Clerk. Should their titles be later changed, this code shall
continue to apply to them unless this code is amended. This code does not apply
to judicial officers, the Coroner, nor the Sheriff, except as stated otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUDITOR. The Auditor of the county.
      COUNTY. Lawrence County, Indiana.
      COUNTY EXECUTIVE. The Board of Commissioners of the county, as defined by
I.C. 36-2-2-2.
      COUNTY FISCAL BODY. The seven-member County Council, as defined by I.C.
36-2-3-2. It shall act in the name of the County Council.
      COUNTY LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Board of Commissioners of the county, as
defined by I.C. 36-1-2-9.
      I.C. The Burns Indiana Statues Annotated, Code Edition.
      MAY. Permissive and no obligation is created thereby.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
(I.C. 1-1-4-1, I.C. 1-1-4-5)
      PERSON. A natural person, partnership, a corporate body, or any other
persons, whether or not they are incorporated. Whenever used in any clause
which prescribes a penalty, the word PERSON, as applied to any unincorporated
entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as applied to
corporations, shall mean the officers thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every kind and type of property except real property.
      PROPERTY. Kinds and types of property, including both real and personal
property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Land, tenements, and hereditaments, and all chattels real.
      SHALL. Mandatory.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STREETS, ROADS, OR HIGHWAYS. Except as provided in the traffic code, this
term means the entire width between property lines of every way or place when
any part thereof is open to the use of the public.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise stated.
(I.C. 1-1-4-1, I.C. 1-1-4-5)
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 10.04 DISCOVERY OF ERRORS, OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of words,
the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word was clearly intended
to express intention, the spelling shall be corrected and the word supplied,
omitted, or substituted the will conform with the manifest intention, and the
provisions shall have the same effect as those as originally published. No
alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the
nature or extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   Whenever an ordinance is repealed which repealed a former ordinance, the
original ordinance shall not be revived unless specifically stated otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If there are different provisions of this code which conflict with
each other, then the provision with the latest passage date is shall prevail.
   (B)   However, if there is no latest passage date, then the conflict shall
be construed so as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the
subject matter taken as a whole.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.07 INVALIDITY.
   If any provision of this code, or the application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions
or applications of this act, which can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this code are
declared to be severable.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.08 PROVISIONS ON A COUNTY-WIDE BASIS.
   (A)   This code contains all of the provisions on a county-wide basis which
are of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior county ordinances which pertain to these subjects treated
hereunder are hereby deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
code.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.09 TEMPORARY, SPECIAL NATURE.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein expressly repealed or repealed by implication.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.10 NUMBERING OF CHAPTERS, SUBCHAPTERS, SECTIONS, DIVISIONS.
   Any and all chapters, subchapters, sections, and divisions which are
contained in or added to this code by ordinances passed subsequent to its
initial publication may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any chapter, subchapter, section,
or division which might be repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. All subsequent ordinances as
so printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent
ordinances until the County Commissioners should adopt a new county code of
ordinances, recodifying those then in existence.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.11 AVAILABILITY OF CODE TO PUBLIC.
   Two copies of the county code are on file in the office of the County
Auditor (who is the Clerk for the Board of Commissioners of the county), Main
Floor, Courthouse, Public Square, Bedford, Indiana, for public inspection as
required by I.C. 36-1-5-4. These copies of the code may be inspected during the
normal business hours which are maintained by the Auditor’s office.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this code for which another penalty
is not specifically provided, shall not be fined more than $2,500.
(I.C. 36-1-3-8(10)) (Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
CHAPTER 11: COUNTY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Home rule
   
11.02   Boundaries
§ 11.01 HOME RULE.
   (A)   I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq. recognizes the validity of “Home Rule” and
enacts it throughout the state. The county code is based upon the powers
extended by such statues which grant counties and other units of government
“all the powers that they need for the effective operation of government as to
local affairs” (I.C. 36-1-3-2). There is a presumption in favor of the
existence of these powers as recognized by statute and “any doubt as to the
existence of a power of a unit shall be resolved in favor of its existence.”
(I.C. 36-1-3-3) (Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
   (B)   The County Commissioners have:
      (1)   All powers granted to it by statute; and
      (2)   All other powers necessary or desirable in the conduct of its
affairs, even though not granted by statute.
(I.C. 36-1-3-4) (Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
   (C)   A unit may exercise any power it has to the extent of that power:
      (1)   It is not expressly denied by the State Constitution or by statute;
and
      (2)   It is not expressly granted to another entity.
(I.C. 36-1-3-5) (Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 11.02 BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the county are those which existed in August 31,
1981, and shall remain unchanged until changed in the manner provided for in
I.C. 36-2-1-2.
(I.C. 36-2-1-1)
   (B)   For the map of the county, see the official map kept in the Auditor’s
office showing the boundaries of the county.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMISSIONERS, COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FEES AND FINANCES
      
33.   TAXATION
      
34.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   COUNTY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSIONERS, COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   County government, generally
   
30.02   Voting precincts
   
30.03   Absentee voting
Board of Commissioners
   
30.15   County executive
   
30.16   Term of office; manner of election
   
30.17   Qualifications; forfeitures; declaration of vacancy
   
30.18   County Sheriff, police officer attendance
   
30.19   Chief Administrative Officers
   
30.20   Meetings
   
30.21   Operation of county offices
County Council
   
30.35   County fiscal body
   
30.36   Terms of office
   
30.37   County Sheriff, police officer attendance
   
30.38   County Auditor as Clerk
   
30.39   President
   
30.40   Right to hire attorney, other personnel
   
30.41   Sole power to fix compensation
   
30.42   Meetings
 
   
30.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 30.01 COUNTY GOVERNMENT, GENERALLY.
   (A)   The county’s government shall consist of four branches:
      (1)   The county executive;
      (2)   The county legislative;
      (3)   The county fiscal body; and
      (4)   Statutory boards and commissions.
   (B)   The County Council is, by statute, both the county legislative body
(see I.C. 36-1-5-2) and the County Executive Body (see I.C. 36-2-2-2).
   (C)   The County Council is the county fiscal body (see I.C. 36-2-3-2).
There might be some confusion as to which of these two bodies is the county
legislative body. On one hand, I.C. 36-1-2-9 states that the Commissioners
shall be the legislative body, while I.C. 36-2-3.5-2 states that the County
Council shall be the legislative body.
   (D)   (1)   The statute I.C. 36-2-3.5-2 states that the County Council can
be the county legislative body only if both the county executive and the county
fiscal bodies adopt identical ordinances providing for the county to be
governed by that chapter (see I.C. 36-2-3.5-1 et seq.) does not apply. Because
the Commissioners and Council have never adopted such identical ordinances (as
of the date of this passage), then that statute (I.C. 36-2-3.5-1 et seq.) does
not apply.
      (2)   Thus EXECUTIVE BRANCH means the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 30.02 VOTING PRECINCTS.
   (A)   Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes the following
districts:
         (a)   County Commissioner District 1 shall be comprised of: Indian
Creek North, Indian Creek South, Perry, Marshall 1, 2, and 3, and Shawswick 1A,
5B, 7A, 7B, 10, 12, 13, 15A, and 16;
         (b)   County Commissioner District 2 shall be comprised of: Bono,
Marion 1, 2, 3, 4, 5A, 5B, 5C, and 6, and Spice Valley North and Spice Valley
South; and
         (c)   County Commissioner District 3 shall be comprised of: Pleasant
Run, Guthrie, Shawswick 1B, 2, 3, 4, 5A, 6, 8, 9, 11, 14A, 14B, and 15B.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not be construed as an attempt to vacate
any duly elected or appointed office holder or precinct officer of his or her
office during his or her present term thereof.
   (B)   County Council.
      (1)   The County Council hereby establishes the following districts:
         (a)   County Council District 1 shall be comprised of: Indian Creek
North, Indian Creek South, Spice Valley North, Spice Valley South, and Marion
1, 2, 3, 4, 5A, and 5B;
         (b)   County Council District 2 shall be comprised of: Marion 5C and
6, Bono, Guthrie, Pleasant Run, and Shawswick 3, 11, 14B, 15A, and 15B;
         (c)   County Council District 3 shall be comprised of: Marshall 1, 2,
3, Perry, Shawswick 2, 12, 13, and 14A; and
         (d)   County Council District 4 shall be comprised of: Shawswick 1A,
1B, 4, 5A, 5B, 6, 7A, 7B, 8, 9, 10, and 16.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not be construed as an attempt to vacate
any duly elected or appointed office holder or precinct officer of his or her
office during his or her present term thereof.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2021-14, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 30.03 ABSENTEE VOTING.
   (A)   The County Election Board hereby authorizes the Circuit Court Clerk to
use an electronic voting system for voting by absentee ballot in the office of
the Circuit Court Clerk pursuant to I.C. 3-11-10-26.2.
   (B)   The County Election Board adopts the procedures attached to the
resolution codified within this section marked as Exhibit A and incorporated
herein by reference, which are substantially similar to the procedures for
casting a ballot in the office of the Clerk under I.C. 3-11-10-26.2, and that
specifically provide procedures:
      (1)   Secure absentee votes cast via an electronic voting system in the
office of the Circuit Court Clerk in a manner that provides protection
comparable to the protection provided to absentee votes cast by paper ballot;
      (2)   Require the comparison of the signature on the absentee ballot
application with the applicant’s signature on the applicant’s voter
registration application;
      (3)   Ensure that an invalid ballot (as determined under I.C. 3-11.5) is
not counted; and
      (4)   The other procedures that Board considers otherwise useful in
implementing I.C. 3-11-10.26.2.
   (C)   In accordance with I.C. 3-11-10-26(f), an absentee ballot voted on an
electronic voting system pursuant to this section is not required to bear the
seal, signature, and initials of the clerk prescribed by I.C. 3-11-10-27.
(Res. 2007-01, passed 2-27-2007)
**** BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ****
§ 30.15 COUNTY EXECUTIVE.
   The three-member Board of Commissioners of the county is the county
executive. It shall transact all business of the county, and do so in the name
of “The Board of Commissioners of the County of Lawrence” (see I.C. 36-2-2-2).
It shall constitute a corporate entity. (Dice v. County Board of Finance, 99
Ind. 405, 192 N.E. 770 (1934).)
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 30.16 TERM OF OFFICE; MANNER OF ELECTION.
   (A)   The term of office for a member of the County Commissioners is four
years, beginning January 1 immediately after his or her election, and
continuing until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-2-2-3)
   (B)   County Commissioners shall be elected at general elections by the
county’s voters, the number of which to be elected to the executive alternating
between one and two at succeeding general elections.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 30.17 QUALIFICATIONS; FORFEITURES; DECLARATION OF VACANCY.
   (A)   To be eligible for election to the County Commissioners, a person must
have been a registered voter of the district from which he or she have run for
at least six months before his or her election, and must remain a resident of
that district after taking office.
   (B)   If any elected Commissioner fails to remain a resident of the district
from which he or she was elected, then he or she forfeits that office.
   (C)   In such a case, the County Council (“county fiscal body”) shall
declare the office vacant whenever a County Commissioner forfeits his or her
office under division (A) above.
   (D)   Should a member of the County Commissioners (“county executive”) want
to resign, he or she must send written notice of such fact to the President of
the County Council (“county fiscal body”) and the County Council shall then
declare his or her office to be vacant.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3)
§ 30.18 COUNTY SHERIFF, POLICE OFFICER ATTENDANCE.
   The County Sheriff, or a Deputy Sheriff, shall attend the meetings of the
County Commissioners, if requested by the County Commissioners, and shall
execute the orders of the Board of Commissioners. (I.C. 36-2-2-15) (Prior Code,
§ 2-2-4)
§ 30.19 CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS.
   As the county executive, the Board of Commissioners is the chief
administrative body of the county and shall control the day-to-day operations
of the following departments which are hereby established:
   (A)   County Courthouse custodian(s);
   (B)   County Attorney;
   (C)   County Veterans Officer;
   (D)   County Sanitarian; and
   (E)   County Engineer (if such Commissioners should determine to create such
a position).
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5)
§ 30.20 MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners shall meet one time every two weeks.
Said meeting is to coincide with the pay-day schedule of county employees, in
order that the Commissioners may sign claims and attend all other business.
      (2)   The current state statute requires at least one meeting each month,
with the dates of regular meetings to be established by resolution at the first
meeting in January of each year. (See I.C. 36-2-2-6.)
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Special meetings of the County Commissioners may be called
by a member of the County Commissioners, or by the County Auditor, provided at
least six days’ notice is given of such special meeting (unless the meeting is
called to deal with an emergency under I.C. 5-14-1.5-5).
         (b)   If the office of the Auditor is vacant, a special meeting may be
called by the County Clerk. If both the offices of County Auditor and County
Clerk are vacant, a special meeting may be called by the County Recorder.
      (2)   The notice of the special meeting must include a specific statement
of the purposes of the meeting, and the County Commissioners may not conduct
any unrelated business at that special meeting. (I.C. 36-2-2-8) (Prior Code, §
2-3-2)
   (C)   (1)   The County Commissioners shall meet in the County Commissioners’
court room adjacent to the Auditor’s office in the Courthouse, Public Square,
Bedford, Indiana.
      (2)   However, the County Commissioners may select a new location other
than the County Courthouse for its meetings only if the courthouse is not
suitable, not convenient, or has been replaced or supplemented by other
buildings to house county government offices (see I.C. 36-2-2-9). If any such
alternate place is chosen as a place for meeting, notice shall be posted on a
wall in the Auditor’s office.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3)
   (D)   The County Commissioners shall keep their office in the Commissioners’
court room open each day and at least one of its members shall be available
during normal business hours for county offices. (I.C. 36-2-2-10) (Prior Code,
§ 2-3-4)
   (E)   (1) The County Auditor shall be in attendance at all meetings of the
Board of Commissioners and shall record in writing the official proceedings of
said Board.
      (2)   If a copy of the Commissioners’ minutes has been signed and sealed
by the Auditor and introduced into evidence in any court of law, then that copy
shall be presumed to be an accurate record of the executive’s proceedings.
(I.C. 36-2-2-11) (Prior Code, § 2-3-5)
   (F)   (1)   In the Commissioners’ court room no person shall use foul,
abusive, or contemptuous language or behave in a disorderly manner. Nor shall
they refuse to obey the orders of any of the Commissioners or any Sheriff or
County Deputy Sheriff who might give any such order while the Commissioners are
in session. (Power of contempt provided by I.C. 36-2-2-15 and I.C. 36-1-4-13.)
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners may, in order to enforce and execute its
orders, and to preserve peace in the Commissioners’ court room, do the
following:
         (a)   Have the right to formally cite a person of, hear evidence, and
issue a finding as to whether or not a person is in contempt of said Board of
Commissioners. And if so, at the same time determine what punishment should be
meted out as a result of such finding, within the limits as hereinafter stated
in division (F)(2)(b) below.
         (b)   The procedure for citing any person for contempt and for the
hearing of any such person so charged is as follows.
            1.   The Board of Commissioners shall file with the County Auditor
a combined petition for citation in writing, which shall consist of a written
statement which shall name the person so cited for such contemptuous behavior.
The citation shall further contain the allegations of contempt and a statement
of the facts upon which such allegations are based. The same petition for
citation shall be verified by such Commissioners. As a further part of such
statement, there shall be a written notice of the date, hour, and place of the
hearing on such citation for contempt.
            2.   Thereafter the Board shall issue the original and one copy of
such petition for citation and notice of hearing to the County Sheriff or any
of their duly appointed deputies, of this county or any other county in which
said person so accused may be found, which shall be served upon the person so
alleged to be in contempt by such county police officer.
            3.   a.   Such Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff shall serve a copy of such
petition for citation and notice of hearing upon such person so alleged to be
in contempt. Upon serving such petition and notice, said county police officer
shall read the entire contents of such document to such person so alleged to be
in contempt and shall leave a copy of the document with such person so served.
               b.   Moreover, the county police officer shall then make due
return in writing upon the original document back to said County Commissioners
by filing the same in the office of the County Auditor.
               c.   Such return shall state the date, hour, and place that such
document was served, that the contents of such notice and citation were read to
such person alleged to be in such contempt, and be signed by the person so
making such notice.
            4.   Such petition for citation for contempt and notice of hearing
shall be sufficient if the same is in the words and figures following, to-wit:
STATE OF INDIANA
COUNTY OF LAWRENCE, SS:
IN THE COMMISSIONERS’ COURT OF
LAWRENCE COUNTY, INDIANA
NO.: _______________
To be Served Upon:
______________________________
Address:
______________________________
CITATION FOR CONTEMPT OF COMMISSIONERS’ COURT
AND
NOTICE OF HEARING:
   To the person named above: You are hereby notified that the Board of
Commissioners of the County of Lawrence, State of Indiana, hereinafter
referred to as “Commissioners,” are of the preliminary opinion that you are
in contempt of the Commissioners for the following reason or reasons:
   And that you are ordered to appear before the said Commissioners on
_____________, 20__, at the hour of _____ (A.M./P.M.), at the following
location:
City:_______________ State:_______________ ZIP:________________
   And to then and there answer to such allegation of contempt, and, in the
event that you should be found to be in contempt by said Commissioners,
then to show cause, if any there be, why you should not be punished for
such contempt.
   Your failure to appear on that date without the prior written approval
of the Board of Commissioners shall result in a writ of attachment or order
of attachment being issued for your arrest.
   Further, you have the right in these proceedings before the
Commissioners to be represented by an attorney, to hear the evidence
against you, and present evidence by the testimony of witnesses or the
introduction of evidence. Should you not attend the hearing and your
absence is not excused in writing, as above provided for, then the
Commissioners shall have the right to proceed to hear and make final
determination of the matter in your absence.
Dated:           Board of Commissioners, County of Lawrence
________________
By: ___________________.
(Title: _________________)
ATTEST:
_________________________
Auditor
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me, the undersigned Notary Public, by
Notary Public
Printed Name of Notary
My commission expires:
                  
                 
RETURN OF SERVICE
   This is to certify that I have served a copy of this combined for
contempt and notice of hearing upon the above named:
In the following manner:
   By reading same to such person and by delivering a copy of this document
to such person at the following address:
(Street or Rural Route)
____________________________________________________________
On the ______ day of (month)______________, 20_____, at the hour of _______
o’clock A.M. or P.M.
And I duly make this return this _______ day of (month) _____________,
20_____.
s/
Sheriff
By:
Deputy
 
            5.   Any person so charged must be given at least five days minimum
notice between the date of service of notice of such contempt citation,
including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, said time to begin to run on the
first day after such notice has been served upon such person. (Such hearing
shall not be on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday which is recognized by the
county by being on the official county holiday recognition list on file with
the County Auditor.)
            6.   a.   The hearing shall be conducted by the County
Commissioners sitting together as a judicial panel to be known as the
Commissioners’ Court, hereinafter referred to as “Court,” and with the County
Auditor administering all oaths. All testimony shall be under oath as in civil
suits. In the event all three Commissioners cannot for any reason sit as such
panel, at least two of such Commissioners may do so, and the same shall
constitute a valid judicial panel. However, if only two Commissioners so serve,
then their decision must be unanimous.
               b.   If all three Commissioners so serve, then their decision
must be by majority. The hearing may be continued for the convenience of the
parties as the Commissioners should determine, but not otherwise. The Auditor
shall record the hearing by means of tape recorder or another available device.
Nothing herein shall prevent the Commissioners from using any court room in the
county and the recording devices already available there, provided it is
available and would not cause an inconvenience to such Court.
            7.   The decision shall be by majority vote of those County
Commissioners so sitting in judgment, and shall be in writing, with the
original filed with the Auditor, a copy served upon the person so charged, and
a copy to the Sheriff’s Department if further action by the Sheriff’s
Department is necessary. Provided, however, that the Commission shall have the
right to take such a matter under advisement for not more than 48 hours.
            8.   All the hearings shall be conducted informally in order to
determine the substantial rights of the parties. The parties may present such
evidence as the Court deems necessary in order to determine the ultimate
question of whether a person did or did not act in contempt of such
Commissioners. Any person so charged shall have the right to examine his or her
own witnesses, present evidence, and cross-examine witnesses of the opposing
party. The Court may examine any witness and may require any person so before
the Court to produce any evidence which it may deem necessary for the proper
determination of the case. In general, the State Rules of Civil Procedure shall
apply in any such hearing, but not to such an extent as to prevent as a full
presentation of fact or to jeopardize the right of the other party. No improper
conduct shall be permitted, but the Court shall consider all hearsay evidence
of any nature permitted under the State Rules of Evidence as exceptions to the
hearsay rule, and the Board of Commissioners may, in its discretion, consider
any hearsay evidence of any nature to which timely objection is not made by an
opposing party.
               a.   This does not mean, however, that the Board of
Commissioners must hear all hearsay evidence merely because no timely objection
is made thereto.
               b.   The Board shall have the right to make a determination to
not hear certain evidence it considers unnecessary. This shall be left up to
the judgment of the hearing members.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6)
      (3)   (a)   The County Commissioners enforces its orders by attachment or
other compulsory process. (I.C. 36-2-2-15)
         (b)   Fines assessed by the County Commissioners shall be executed,
collected, and paid over in the same manner as other fines.
(I.C. 36-2-2-15)
         (c)   The power of the Board of Commissioners of the county to enforce
its orders by attachment, contempt, or other compulsory process should not be
confused with the limitation of I.C. 36-1-3-8(8), which prohibits both the
power to prescribe a penalty for conduct constituting a crime of infraction
under state statute, and I.C. 36-1-3-8(9) which prohibits the power to
prescribe a penalty of imprisonment for an ordinance violation.
         (d)   The County Sheriff or one of his or her deputies shall execute
the orders of the Board of Commissioners in these respects.
(I.C. 36-2-2-15) (Prior Code, § 2-3-7)
      (4)   (a)   The Commissioners shall have the right to require any person
to attend one of its meetings or a meeting of one of the county departments, by
serving upon that person a subpoena to so attend. Such subpoena shall be
essentially in the form provided by the State Rules of Procedure, but shall be
signed by at least two of the Commissioners, be stamped with their seal, and be
attested to by the County Auditor. Such subpoena shall be in duplicate with any
police officer or Sheriff being directed to serve same without charge, read it
to the person so named therein, leave a copy of same with the person so served,
and make due return of the date, time, person served, and manner of service in
writing on the back of the subpoena. Failure to do so authorizes the County
Commissioners to order such person to be taken into custody and brought before
such Board.
(I.C. 36-1-4-12, I.C. 36-2-2-15)
         (b)   The Board of Commissioners may also order the production of
documents and things which the Board considers to be evidence, without any
necessity for the filing of any petition for production of documents, or
things. It shall be sufficient if the order to produce is in a form
substantially like that prescribed by the State Rules of Procedure. Such form
shall be in duplicate, shall be issued to any Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff in the
state, and shall order the person so served to produce, at a date, place, and
hour, any evidence which the Board of Commissioners considers relevant to any
matter being taken under its consideration. Such order shall describe such item
or items to be produced with sufficient clarity so that the average person
would understand what is sought. Such Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff shall make due
return upon the original in the same manner as they make returns in civil
cases, showing the specific information set for in division (F)(4)(a) above.
Any person receiving such an order to produce shall have the right to produce
xerox copies, or other copies made by wet or dry photo-copying process, and
retain the originals, so long as the copies so produced are clear, legible
copies and can be read by the Commissioners; provided, however, that the Board
of Commissioners shall have the right to specify on the order that no copies
will be accepted. In that case, the originals must be produced.
         (c)   When the matter has been concluded, the County Commissioners
shall order the items so produced to be released, and the person so order to
produce the items may receive such items back, provided they are the originals
and not copies, upon such person signing a receipt prepared by the Auditor to
acknowledge such return. No copies need be returned by the Commissioners unless
they should determine voluntarily to do so.
         (d)   Because the option of furnishing copies is for the convenience
of the person so served, and not for the convenience or benefit of the County
Commissioners, the cost of copying shall be paid for solely by the person so
ordered to produce such evidence.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8)
      (5)   The County Sheriff or any of their duly appointed deputies of any
county in the state shall execute the orders of the Board of Commissioners in
these respects.
(I.C. 36-2-2-15) (Prior Code, § 2-3-9)
   (G)   (1)   The President of the Board of Commissioners shall preside over
all Commissioners’ meetings. In the absence of the President, either one of the
other two member may preside over the meeting with the consent of the remaining
member announced to the Auditor.
      (2)   (a)   The Commissioners’ meetings shall have the following order of
business:
            1.   Call to order by Auditor and roll call;
            2.   Reading of the minutes of the previous meeting and approval by
Commissioners. At such time any corrections to those minutes must be brought up
for consideration;
            3.   Old business;
            4.   New business; and
            5.   Adjournment.
         (b)   Due to the fact that bids are required to be opened at certain
hours, and out-of-town persons may be in attendance, it may be necessary to
occasionally set aside one certain subject temporarily, to attend to such
items, and then return to the regular agenda.
      (3)   The following rules shall apply to all Commissioners’ meetings:
         (a)   After discussion of any subject or matter, any Commissioner may
“call for the question,” which is the same as asking if there is a motion (or a
second for a motion already made). If there is no motion and second, which
would qualify the issue to be voted upon, made within five minutes after said
question is called for, then the subject is automatically continued to the next
Commissioners’ meeting and the Chairperson will proceed without delay to the
next matter before the Board; provided, however, that this rule may be set
aside upon a majority vote of the Commissioners at any time.
         (b)   An ordinance, order, or resolution is considered adopted when it
is passed by a majority vote and signed by the presiding officer. If required,
an order, ordinance, or resolution shall be published (promulgated) as required
by statute before it takes effect.
         (c)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty for or forfeiture for a
violation must, before it takes effect, be published once each week for two
successive weeks.
(I.C. 5-3-1-1 et seq., I.C. 36-2-4-8)
         (d)   All appointments by Commissioners shall be in writing and
certified to by the County Auditor (I.C. 36-2-2-12), and shall bear the seal of
the Board of Commissioners, and either a photocopy or xerox copy of such
appointment bearing such seal and signature of the Auditor shall be conclusive
proof that said person whose name appears thereon has been appointed to the
position stated therein.
          (e)   Unanimous consent of the members present is required to pass an
ordinance on the same day or at the same meeting at which it is introduced.
(I.C. 36-2-4-7)
         (f)   A majority vote of the Commissioners is a two-thirds vote of all
members.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-10)
   (H)   For all matters that are not controlled by this section, Robert’s
Rules of Order shall apply. The Board of Commissioners shall conduct its
meetings in accordance with the terms thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-11)
   (I)   (1)   It is the duty of each member of the County Board of
Commissioners to attend and be present at any course conducted for local
officials which the Purdue Road School may cause to occur.
      (2)   The County Council shall appropriate sufficient monies to pay each
Commissioner a per diem for expenses each day together with mileage for each
mile necessarily traveled to such Road School at the rate permitted to be paid
to state officers and employees which is prevailing at the time the trip is
made.
(I.C. 8-17-7-7) (Prior Code, § 2-3-12)
§ 30.21 OPERATION OF COUNTY OFFICES.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners has been given the responsibility
and authority of determining the times and manner in which the Courthouse and/
or the county offices are to be open. No other office holder, deputy, or
employee has the authority to close the Courthouse and/or the county offices
other than the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners acknowledges that there may be times
where the weather or other intervening factors may result in the need to close
the Courthouse unexpectedly or without prior notice or scheduling. All office
holders, deputies, and employees are hereby notified that the Board of
Commissioners, and only the Board of Commissioners, has authority to make the
decision as to whether or not to close the Courthouse and/or the county
offices. If and when the Board of Commissioners decides that circumstances
warrant the closing of the Courthouse or county offices, one of the
Commissioners or a designee of the Commissioners (an employee from the
Auditor’s office or the Commissioners’ Administrative Assistant) will notify
all of the office holders as soon as possible. The Commissioners hope that
notice of such closing can be issued in writing and delivered or faxed to all
offices. However, under some circumstances it may not be possible to deliver
written notice and the Commissioners reserve the right to issue notice verbally
when necessary.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners understands that concerns regarding safety
can be involved in addressing matters related to the closing of the Courthouse
and County offices. Notwithstanding the assessment and judgment of others, the
Board of County Commissioners is the sole and final authority in making the
decision regarding closing of the county facilities.
(Res. 99-01, passed 1-19-1999)
**** COUNTY COUNCIL ****
§ 30.35 COUNTY FISCAL BODY.
   The seven-member County Council elected under I.C. 36-2-3-2 is the county
fiscal body. It shall be known as the “Lawrence County Council” or the “County
Council.”
(I.C. 36-2-3-2) (Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
§ 30.36 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The fiscal body shall be elected at general elections for four-year terms on
a staggered basis, pursuant to the state election laws as they now exist or may
hereafter be changed.
(I.C. 36-2-3-3) (Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 30.37 COUNTY SHERIFF, POLICE OFFICER ATTENDANCE.
   The County Sheriff or a Deputy Sheriff shall attend the meetings of the
fiscal body, if requested by the fiscal body, and shall execute its orders.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 30.38 COUNTY AUDITOR AS CLERK.
   The County Auditor is the Clerk for the fiscal body and shall preserve the
fiscal body’s records in the office of the Auditor; keep an accurate record of
the fiscal body’s proceedings; record the “ayes” and “nays” on each vote
appropriating money or fixing the rate of a tax levy; and record the “ayes” and
“nays” on other votes when requested to do so by two or more members.
(I.C. 36-2-3-6) (Prior Code, § 2-4-4)
§ 30.39 PRESIDENT.
   The fiscal body must elect a President. Any and all persons serving as
President, President Pro Tem, or otherwise Chief Presiding Officer, must be
elected from the membership of the fiscal body.
(I.C. 36-2-3-6) (Prior Code, § 2-4-5)
§ 30.40 RIGHT TO HIRE ATTORNEY, OTHER PERSONNEL.
   The fiscal body shall have the right to employ legal and administrative
personnel necessary to assist and advise it in the performance of its function
and duties.
(I.C. 36-2-3-6) (Prior Code, § 2-4-6)
§ 30.41 SOLE POWER TO FIX COMPENSATION.
   The county fiscal body alone may fix the compensation of officers, deputies,
and other employees whose compensation is payable from the County General Fund,
County Highway Fund, County Welfare Fund, County Health Fund, County Park and
Recreation Fund, Aviation Fund, or any other fund from which the County Auditor
issues warrants for compensation.
(I.C. 36-2-5-3) (Prior Code, § 2-4-7)
§ 30.42 MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The fiscal body shall hold its meetings in the county seat, in
the Auditor’s office, or in another location provided by the County
Commissioners (executive) and approved by the fiscal body.
      (2)   (a)   Regular meetings. The fiscal body shall hold a regular
meeting in January of each year after its election for the purpose of
organizing and for such other business as may come before that body, and a
regular annual meeting as prescribed by I.C. 6-1.1-17-1, to adopt the regular
annual budget and tax rate.
         (b)   Special meetings. The fiscal body may hold a special meeting
when called by the County Auditor, by the President of the fiscal body, or by a
majority of the members of the fiscal body. However, the Auditor, President, or
members calling such meeting shall give 48 hours’ advanced written notice of
the meeting to each member of the fiscal body and shall publish at least one
day before the meeting the notice in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 and I.C. 36-2-
3-7. This requirement of giving notice shall not apply to a meeting called to
deal with an emergency under I.C. 5-14-1.5-5.
         (c)   Court-ordered expenditures. If a court orders the Auditor to
make any expenditure of county money for a purpose for which an appropriation
has not been made, the Auditor shall immediately call an emergency meeting of
the fiscal body to discuss the matter. This must be done within three working
days of the receipt of the order by the Auditor, and notice of the meeting day,
time, and place is sufficient if given by telephone to the fiscal body members,
provided, however, such notice must still be given 48 hours in advance of such
meeting, and the notice of such meeting must be published in the newspaper at
least one day prior to the meeting.
(I.C. 36-2-3-7) (Prior Code, § 2-4-8)
   (B)   (1)   Unanimous consent of the members present is required to pass an
ordinance on the same day or at the same meeting which it is introduced.
(I.C. 36-2-4-7)
      (2)   This section does not apply to an ordinance of a county fiscal body
for additional appropriations.
(I.C. 36-2-4-7) (Prior Code, § 2-4-9)
   (C)   (1)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance is adopted, the
Auditor shall record it in a book which he or she keeps for that purpose, and
this record must contain the signature of the presiding officer and the
attestation of the Auditor.
      (2)   The record itself, or a certified copy issued by the Auditor, shall
be presumptive evidence that the ordinance was adopted and took effect.
(I.C. 36-2-4-9) (Prior Code, § 2-4-10)
   (D)   (1)   The fiscal body’s meetings shall have the following order of
business:
         (a)   Call to order by the Auditor and roll call;
         (b)   Reading of the minutes of previous meeting, and approval by the
fiscal body. At such time, any corrections to those minutes must be brought up
for consideration, or they are waived;
          (c)   Old business;
         (d)   New business; and
         (e)   Adjournment.
      (2)   The following rules shall apply to all fiscal body meetings: After
discussion of any subject or matter any member may “call for the question” and
request a vote on the subject. The presiding officer shall determine if there
is any more discussion on the subject, and then may ask for a motion and second
to adopt such item or items. If there is no motion or second within five
minutes after the question is called for, as the presiding officer’s
calculation of such time, then the subject is deemed to have been rejected.
However, by a majority vote of the members in attendance at any particular
meeting, this requirement may be waived and the time enlarged, or the matter
continued to a later meeting as such majority should so determine.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-11)
   (E)   (1)   A simple majority vote shall be sufficient to enact any item
unless state law require something different in any particular instance. A
MAJORITY VOTE means a majority of all County Council members who are elected,
not just present at any particular meeting. Thus, a majority vote shall be four
out of seven members in attendance, if all attend; four out of six, if only six
members are in attendance at the time the vote is taken; three out of five, if
only five members are in attendance at the time said vote is taken; and three
out of four, if only four members are present at the time of said vote was
taken.
(I.C. 36-2-4-4)
      (2)   A TWO-THIRDS VOTE means at least two-thirds of all elected members
(which for the County Council shall mean five out of the seven County Council
members).
      (3)   There must be at least four members in attendance at any meeting of
the County Council in order for the Council to have a quorum and thus in order
for the County Council to properly conduct business (see I.C. 36-2-4-3(a)).
However, the County Council may, by a two-thirds vote, adopt a rule specifying
that a certain number of members greater than four constitute a quorum.
(I.C. 36-2-4-3(b))
(Prior Code, § 2-4-12)
   (F)   (1)   A discussion of all issues that are to come to a vote before the
County Council is the goal of such Presiding Officer, but when, in his or her
opinion, the discussion is becoming repetitive or unhelpful in clarifying the
issues for the members of the fiscal body, then the Presiding Officer shall
call for the question, at which point, asking for “aye” votes first, and then
“nay” votes. The Auditor shall record the votes. The presiding officer shall
likewise record the votes, and announce the result.
      (2)   (a)   If the Presiding Officer is not sure as to the result, he or
she may ask the Auditor to poll the members for their vote. Any such request
must be made immediately after the vote is taken or immediately before the vote
is asked for.
         (b)   The Auditor shall ask each member in turn how they voted and the
member shall so state to the Auditor (known as “polling” the Council) in a
voice loud enough so that members of the public in attendance and other members
and the Auditor may know. Such result shall be the final vote on any such
subject. Any request for polling the Council may be made by any Council member
as well.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-13)
   (G)   The County Council shall not take matters under advisement beyond that
particular meeting’s adjournment. The Presiding Officer may set one matter
aside until another matter is determined during that meeting, or take requests
out of order, but a final determination on all issues before the Council must
be made before that meeting is adjourned.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-14)
   (H)   For procedural matters that are not provided for herein or in I.C. 36-
2-4, Robert’s Rules of Order shall apply, and the county fiscal body shall
conduct his or her meetings in accordance with the terms thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-15)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The County Commissioners shall have the right to punish any finding of
contempt, as stated in §
30.20(F), by a fine of not more than $3 per day or by imprisonment for not more
than 24 hours or both.
(I.C. 36-2-2-15) (Prior Code, § 2-3-6)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Appointments by Commissioners, Council
   
31.002   Non-exclusive listing
   
31.003   Appointment of vacancies
   
31.004   Overtime pay
   
31.005   Accident, health insurance; Substance Abuse Counselor, Secretary In-
Take Clerk, Prosecuting Attorney
   
31.006   Nepotism policy adopted
   
31.007   Personnel policy adopted
   
31.008   Job descriptions adopted
   
31.009   Vacation; sick days
   
31.010   Mileage rates
   
31.011   Elective offices
   
31.012   Discrimination
Appointed Officials
   
31.025   County Attorney
   
31.026   County Highway Supervisor
   
31.027   Highway Engineer
   
31.028   Veterans’ Service Officer
   
31.029   County Sanitarian
   
31.030   Chief Deputy Employee
   
31.031   County Administrator
County Assessor
   
31.045   Location of office
   
31.046   Hours of business
County Recorder
   
31.060   Fees charged for recording
   
31.061   Term of office
   
31.062   Office hours and location
   
31.063   Payment in advance
   
31.064   Return of recorded instrument; proper recording required
   
31.065   Recording farm names
   
31.066   Federal tax liens
   
31.067   Certain bankruptcy matters
   
31.068   List of mortgage releases
   
31.069   Seal
   
31.070   Recorder to retain documents during microfilm development
County Surveyor
   
31.085   Term of office
   
31.086   Office hours
   
31.087   Supplies, equipment furnished
   
31.088   Seal
   
31.089   Certain powers
   
31.090   Entry on lands of others
   
31.091   Powers, duties
   
31.092   Charges to county
   
31.093   Outside income
County Treasurer
   
31.105   Terms of office
   
31.106   Removal from office
   
31.107   Office hours
   
31.108   Oaths
   
31.109   Receipts and disbursements
   
31.110   Inspection by Commissioners
   
31.111   Warrants
   
31.112   Maintenance of certain accounts
   
31.113   Monthly financial reports
   
31.114   Annual, semi-annual settlement
   
31.115   Designation of banks
   
31.116   Unclaimed property
   
31.117   Tax sales
Auditor
   
31.130   Fiscal officer
   
31.131   Terms of office
   
31.132   Office hours
   
31.133   Duties
   
31.134   Grievance Officer
   
31.135   Drafts
   
31.136   Inter-fund transfers
Boards, Commissions
   
31.150   Hospital Board; Association; Authority
   
31.151   Board of Finance
   
31.152   Board of Review
   
31.153   Alcoholic Beverage Board
   
31.154   Board of Aviation Commissioners
   
31.155   Board of Public Welfare
   
31.156   Board of Health
   
31.157   Board of Public Records
   
31.158   Board of Tax Adjustments
   
31.159   Library Board; Contractual Library Board
   
31.160   Community Corrections Advisory Board
   
31.161   Tourism Commission
   
31.162   Fairgrounds Preservation Committee
   
31.163   911 Advisory Board
   
31.164   Redevelopment Commission
   
31.165   Public Defender Board
Departments
   
31.180   Department of Redevelopment
   
31.181   Forensics Services Center
   
31.182   County Highway Department; overtime
 
   
31.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 31.001 APPOINTMENTS BY COMMISSIONERS, COUNCIL.
   (A)   As set forth in §
30.20(G)(3)(d), all appointments by the Board of County Commissioners shall be
in writing and certified to by the County Auditor under the seal of the
Commissioners (I.C. 36-2-2-12). Either a photocopy or xerox copy of such
appointments bearing such Commissioners’ seal and signature of the Auditor
shall be conclusive proof that said person whose name appears thereon has been
appointed to the position stated therein.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-4)
   (B)   (1)   All appointments made by the County Council shall likewise be
both in writing, signed by the members of the County Council present at such
meeting (at which final action was taken to make such appointments), and
certified by the County Auditor, who shall put the county’s seal thereupon.
      (2)   Either a photocopy or xerox copy of such an appointment which bears
such county’s seal shall be conclusive proof that said person whose name
appears thereon has been appointed to the position stated therein. (No prior
statutory authority existed for such a manner of designating County Council
appointees; however, this code adopts such provisions under the powers provided
under Home Rule [see I.C. 36-1-3-1].)
(Prior Code, § 2-7-5)
§ 31.002 NON-EXCLUSIVE LISTING.
   The appointments of §§
31.025 through
31.029 is not all-inclusive of either the Board of Commissioners or the County
Council, and the failure to include an appointment or membership that may now
exist, or which may hereafter come into being, shall not abridge the right of
such appointment or to serve in such capacity.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-3)
§ 31.003 APPOINTMENT OF VACANCIES.
   With regard to any vacancy occurring in any of the following offices, the
vacancy shall be filled according to statute by the following persons:
 
Position Vacated  Filled By
County Council    Remaining members of County Council
Township Assessor County Assessor (subject to the approval of the State Board
                  of Tax Commissioners)
Township Trustee  Board of Commissioners
 
(Prior Code, § 2-7-7)
§ 31.004 OVERTIME PAY.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all county employees excepting therefrom
all deputy sheriffs, the County Jailer, and all hourly workers of the County
Highway Department. All employees of the Prosecuting Attorney for the 81st
Judicial Circuit are included herein if they are not otherwise excluded by
reason of being personal staff members involved in policy making decisions,
such as the full-time Deputy Prosecuting Attorney. By the terms and provisions
of the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., any and all
elected officials and department heads, such as the Veterans’ Officer, the
Civil Defense Officer, the 4-H Extension Agent, and like, are exempt from the
provisions of this act.
   (B)   (1)   Effective April 14, 1986, the county shall compensate all
employees on the basis of a fixed weekly salary for up to 40 hours worked in
each workweek. The employee’s regular scheduled hours of work will be 35 hours
each workweek; however, additional work will be necessary from time to time in
order to fulfill the functions of his or her position, and it is required that
such employee shall person such work as necessary. The employee’s fixed weekly
salary will cover up to five hours of such additional work each week. No
additional compensation shall be paid for such addition five hours per week.
      (2)   To be eligible for such job, such employee must be on the job
physically ready, and able for work to be assigned to such an employee;
further, such employee must actually work such period claimed.
      (3)   In order that the county be advised of its obligations to pay any
such overtime or grant compensatory time, the time card for such employee, so
signed by such employee, and approved in writing by his or her supervisor, must
be physically delivered to the County Auditor for payment in advance. The
employee must verify that the same is accurate.
      (4)   Compensatory time will be earned at a rate of one and one-half
hours for each hour actually worked over 40 in the established workweek of such
employee. The employee may accumulate up to 240 hours of compensatory time off,
and the employee will further receive monetary overtime compensation for
overtime hours actually worked which would cause such employee’s accumulation
to exceed 240 hours.
      (5)   Overtime shall be paid for all hours worked over 40 in a given
workweek. The amount of overtime pay will be one and one-half times the
employee’s regular hourly rate for all hours worked over 40.
      (6)   All pay for overtime and/or grants of compensatory time, which,
computed on a weekly basis, shall nevertheless be paid every two weeks in the
same manner as the employee’s regular compensation is paid. The overtime
compensation shall be based upon the regular pay rate at the time such hours
were worked. However, if an employee should work a certain number of hours at
one job with one pay rate, and additional hours at another job with a different
pay rate so as to justify overtime pay, then such overtime pay rate shall be
paid by paying the straight time hourly rate for the job such employee is
actually performing during such overtime hours, plus an additional overtime
premium equal to one-half of such employee’s weighted average hourly rate for
the week. The weighted average hourly rate will equal the total straight time
pay for the week, divided by the total number of hours worked as provided by
law.
      (7)   The employee may use earned compensatory time off with the approval
of such employee’s supervisor authorized to grant such approval. If it is not
possible to approve the particular compensatory time off requested by such
employee, time off will be granted within a reasonable period, normally within
30 days, unless the requested time off would unduly disrupt operations. The
employee will receive compensation based upon the regular pay rate in effect
when the compensatory time off is actually taken.
   (C)   The employer may elect to substitute monetary overtime for pay earned
as compensatory time off, either at the time overtime is actually worked or in
any later period. Monetary overtime compensation will be based upon the
employee’s regular pay rate at the time of payment.
   (D)   The county may also elect to apply earned compensatory time off to
hours the employee may have missed due to personal absence, short workweeks,
layoffs, or leave of absence, including medical leaves if not covered by paid
sick days, or authorized by a physician’s medical report. In periods of slack
work, it may be necessary to schedule time off, to which earned compensatory
time off will be applied.
   (E)   Upon forms provided by the County Auditor’s office, all employees
shall keep a regular, accurate record of their hours worked for each workday,
and the total hours worked by such employee for each and all workweeks. This
record shall include the time which said employee began work for that workday,
the time which employment ended for that workday, and any hours (or parts
thereof) of overtime for that day. Such time sheet shall be signed by the
employee who shall verify the correctness of its contents. Such time sheet
shall further be approved, in writing, by the person designated and authorized
by employee’s department head to make any such approval and processed by such
office which shall tabulate and verify the total hours to the Auditor, together
with any overtime pay and/or compensatory time to which such employee may be
entitled to. Such overtime pay shall be paid within 30 days of the submission
of same to the County Auditor.
   (F)   In addition thereto, the office employing such employee shall keep an
accurate record of all vacation days, sick days, and personal leave days of
each employee upon forms prescribed by the office of the County Auditor.
   (G)   All records hereunder shall be maintained for a minimum of three
years.
   (H)   No overtime shall be paid and/or compensatory time allowed for any
hours not shown upon the time sheets received by the office of the County
Auditor and it shall be the responsibility of the office employing any
particular employee to see that the same are turned in timely to the Auditor.
It is further the responsibility of each employee to make an accurate record of
the information required herein and the county shall be entitled to rely upon
any time sheet so signed by such employee as being an accurate representation
of such work record.
   (I)   This section shall be in effect on April 15, 1986, beginning at 12:01
a.m. and shall continue until further action by the Board of Commissioners.
   (J)   This section shall likewise apply to any employees employed after this
date.
   (K)   Any employee who may have another job and which such other job is
subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act must report the same to the Auditor in
writing and must notify such employee’s immediate supervisor of all hours
worked on said other job in order that the overtime requirements of the Fair
Labor Standards Act may be met. In such case, overtime shall be computed as
provided by the Fair Labor Standards Act.
(Prior Code, § 8-35-2) (Ord. 1986-, passed 4-15-1986)
Cross-reference:
   Overtime for the County Highway Department, §
31.182
   Overtime for the County Jailer, §
34.04
§ 31.005 ACCIDENT, HEALTH INSURANCE; SUBSTANCE ABUSE COUNSELOR, SECRETARY IN-
TAKE CLERK, PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   (A)   (1)   The Substance Abuse Counselor for the County Court shall be
included in those persons eligible for accident and health insurance coverage,
provided that all premiums and costs thereof, wherever possible, be paid from
the federal funds or monies either directly or through reimbursement to the
county.
(Prior Code, § 8-16-1)
      (2)   The Secretary In-Take Clerk and the Prosecuting Attorney shall
likewise be provided with such accident and health insurance, provided that all
premiums and costs thereof, wherever possible, be paid from federal funds or
monies either directly or through reimbursement to the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-16-2)
   (B)   The type of accident and health insurance that is to be furnished
hereunder shall be that type which is furnished to all the other employees in
such county who are eligible therefor, in the same amounts and with the same
provisions for coverage.
(Prior Code, § 8-16-3)
(Ord. 1978-2, passed 6-5-1978)
§ 31.006 NEPOTISM POLICY ADOPTED.
   The County Commissioners hereby adopt and approve I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C.
36-1-21 as the official policy of the county regarding nepotism in employment
of relatives and in contracting with relatives, and is adopted by reference as
if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 31.007 PERSONNEL POLICY ADOPTED.
   The County Personnel Policy is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in
full herein.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 12-23-2019)
§ 31.008 JOB DESCRIPTIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The county job descriptions (documents available for review in the
Human Resources Department) describe and classify positions and services, and
are adopted as the official job descriptions for all county positions as if set
out in full herein. In the future as new jobs are added, or the adopted job
descriptions change, new job descriptions shall be prepared or updated, and
presented to the County Council for approval.
   (B)   The FLSA exempt, excluded, and non-exempt classifications are hereby
adopted as if set out in full herein for the purposes of calculating overtime
for employees holding non-exempt positions.
(Council Ord. 2019-04, passed 11-26-2019)
§ 31.009 VACATION; SICK DAYS.
   (A)   Sick days.
      (1)   General. This section applies to each deputy, each full-time hourly
employee, and each salaried employee of the county.
      (2)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         WORK YEAR. Begins with the first day that an employee is on the job
and gets paid in that position and shall end at 12:00 a.m. 365 days later (or
366 days later if a leap year is involved). For example, if an employee begins
work on January 12, 1989, then his or her work year is from January 12, 1989 to
12:00 a.m. on January 11, 1990.
      (3)   Accumulated sick days.
         (a)   Presently, every county employee accumulates two sick days per
month of service to the county. Under the present personnel policy of the
county, an employee may accumulate up to a total of 48 sick days. These days
may be carried over and held in reserve to be used as an employee may so need.
         (b)   After an employee has accumulated a total of 48 sick days, each
said employee may hereafter continue to accumulate two sick days per month to
be accumulated into a reserve for long-term or catastrophic illness. Each
employee may accumulate up to 96 days in the reserve for long-term or
catastrophic illness.
         (c)   Only those sick days not used at the end of each completed month
of service and only those sick days not needed to replenish the original 48
days of sick leave may be placed in the long-term or catastrophic illness
reserve. Once sick days are placed in the long-term or catastrophic illness
reserve, they may not be used to replace any of the original 48 sick days.
         (d)   The sick days held in reserve for long-term or catastrophic
illness are for the county employee use only and may not be used as a
substitute for any time off requested under the Family Medical Leave Act, being
29 U.S.C. §§ 2611 et seq.
         (e)   For an employee to be entitled to accumulate or use the reserve
sick days, an employee shall submit a written request to the County Board of
Commissioners for review and approval.
         (f)   In the event an employee leaves employment with the county for
any reason, voluntary or involuntary, said departing employee shall not be
entitled to any compensation for sick days accumulated in the reserve for long-
term or catastrophic illness.
         (g)   No sick days shall accumulate for any period that an employee is
absent under an unpaid leave of absence.
      (4)   Doctor’s note.
         (a)   For any and all days up to five days for each year that an
employee reports sick and asks to not come to work, such employee shall not be
required to have a doctor’s statement with him or her when the employee returns
to work to verify such illness. The employee’s honesty will be relied upon
(although this is subject to being checked independently by the employer or his
or her agent). For example, if an employee has 24 sick days accumulated and he
or she is off three days in the first of the year, but has a doctor’s excuse
for those three days, then the employee is off six days but does not have a
doctor’s excuse, the result would be that he or she would not receive pay for
the sixth day.
         (b)   All other days that an employee is off work because he or she
reports in sick, said employee must have a statement of a physician verifying
that fact and saying that, in the physician’s opinion, the employee should not
go to work or each of the days that the employee is off work during any such
year which exceeds five working days.
   (B)   Vacation days.
      (1)   [MISSING TEXT] satisfied that the supervisor and the supervisor’s
department can function for such extended period without such employee and
without it causing. an undue hardship upon the department. This shall be left
to the sole discretion of the department head.
      (2)   An employee must give his or her supervisor at least 14 calendar
days’ advance notice of his or her intention to take such vacation. The time
that such vacation is to be taken must be approved by the department head. If
two or more employees are seeking to take vacation during the same period, then
the department head has the right to deny the request of one or said employees.
This is to be left up to the discretion of the department head. Likewise, an
employee shall not take his or her vacation during peak period in which his or
her department is shorthanded or is extremely busy and the department head has
the right to refuse anyone’s request for any particular time if, in the
department head’s sole discretion, it is a peak period or such department is
shorthanded.
      (3)   Vacation time earned must be taken within the next 12 calendar
months once they are earned. For example, if an employee on January 12 is
entitled to three weeks vacation, he or she must schedule and take that
vacation time before January 11 of the next year. If he or she chooses not to
take such vacation but instead chooses to work, such employee shall lose such
vacation time and will only be paid his or her regular pay for the week or
weeks worked that he or she would otherwise be on vacation.
      (4)   If an employee quits his or her job or is fired and has earned
vacation days which he or she has not taken, then that employee should be paid
for those additional vacation days.
      (5)   No vacation days shall accumulate for any period that an employee
is absent under an unpaid leave or absence.
   (C)   Exclusions. This section shall not be binding upon the following
persons:
      (1)   Employees of the courts whose compensation is fixed by anyone other
than the County Commissioners and the County Council;
      (2)   The Director and employees of the Welfare Department, as it is now
a state agency;
      (3)   The County Health Officer, Health Nurse, and other specialized
personnel hired by the Board of Health which Board fixes the compensation or
such specialized personnel;
      (4)   The County Sanitarian, the County Veterans’ Officer, the Inspector
of Weights and Measures, and the curator of the County Museum;
      (5)   The manager of the airport;
      (6)   The County Attorney;
      (7)   Any elected official;
      (8)   The employees of the County Surveyor;
      (9)   All custodians; and
      (10)   The County Sheriff, deputy sheriffs, County Jailer, and any
employees or the County Sheriff.
(Ord. passed 1- -1989; Ord. 2002-07, passed 8- -2002)
§ 31.010 MILEAGE RATES.
   (A)   (1)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a per diem
rate of $50 per day for each day in which an employee of the county travels for
or attends to the official business of the county outside of his or her office
outside of the county.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, attending conferences or meetings
required in the ordinary course of business shall be an event that qualifies
for a per diem stipend.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a mileage rate of
$0.42 per mile for all travel in which an employee of the county may engage in
while attending to the official business of the county outside or his or her
office. For purposes of this section, attending conferences or meetings
required in the ordinary course of business shall be an event that qualifies
for mileage reimbursement.
   (C)   Any and all claims for per diem and/or mileage reimbursement shall be
made through the established claims process which is managed and operated by
the Auditor of the county and shall require the approval of the County Board of
Commissioners before reimbursement is made.
   (D)   Nothing by way of this section shall act as an affirmative
representation or guarantee on the part of the County Board of Commissioners
that budgeted funds will be available to pay per diem or mileage expenses. Each
office holder shall be responsible to ensure that his or her budget has funds
properly appropriated and available to reimburse employees’ per diem or mileage
expenses.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 31.011 ELECTIVE OFFICES.
   The county elective offices are:
   (A)   Judicial.
      (1)   Circuit Court Judge;
      (2)   Superior Court Judge; and
      (3)   County Court Judge.
   (B)   81st Judicial Circuit. The elective office shall be the Prosecuting
Attorney; and
   (C)   County.
      (1)   Auditor;
      (2)   Assessor;
      (3)   County Commissioners (also known as the county legislative body and
the county administrative body);
      (4)   County Council (also known as the county fiscal body);
      (5)   Coroner;
      (6)   Clerk of Circuit Court;
      (7)   Recorder;
      (8)   Sheriff;
      (9)   Surveyor; and
       (10)   Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 31.012 DISCRIMINATION.
   The county does not discriminate against any person for purpose of
employment, or any other purpose, by reason of race, color, sex, nationality,
religion, or creed.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1) (Ord. 1985-1, passed 1-2-1985)
**** APPOINTED OFFICIALS ****
§ 31.025 COUNTY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   For the County Attorney, the appointee must be licensed to practice
law in the state. The Attorney is not required, but normally expected, to be a
resident of the county.
   (B)   Inasmuch as the state code does not provide clear authority for this
position, although numerous citations imply such authority, such position is
hereby created by virtue of the powers granted unto to the Board of
Commissioners under Home Rule.
(I.C. 36-1-4-1 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 2-7-1)
§ 31.026 COUNTY HIGHWAY SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   For the County Highway Supervisor, there shall be an annual
appointment of one year. No statutory qualification’s set forth in state law,
however, the appointment of a certain person as such County Highway Engineer is
authorized under I.C. 8-1-7-3-10.
   (B)   Provided, however, if no appointment is made by the Commissioners to
this post, then the County Surveyor is, by statute, the Highway Supervisor and
shall receive additional compensation for this act as the Board of
Commissioners shall fix.
(I.C. 8-17-3-10 through 8-12-7-3) (Prior Code, § 2-7-1)
§ 31.027 HIGHWAY ENGINEER.
   For the County Highway Engineer, the position shall be filled by the Board
of Commissioners if it determines at any time that the services of a highway
engineer are needed. Qualifications are that such person must be a registered
professional engineer, licensed in the state, a state resident (or become a
resident during his or her term of employment), and experienced in highway
engineering and construction. The Commissioners may adopt additional
qualifications. This is not a required position.
(I.C. 8-17-5-1 through 8-17-5-12) (Prior Code, § 2-7-1)
§ 31.028 VETERANS’ SERVICE OFFICER.
   For the Veterans’ Service Officer, the position shall be made where the
Board of Commissioners determines that such a position is necessary.
(I.C. 10-17-1) (Prior Code, § 2-7-1-9)
§ 31.029 COUNTY SANITARIAN.
   For the County Sanitarian, the approval of an appointee must be obtained by
the state (State Board of Health).
(Prior Code, § 2-7-1)
§ 31.030 CHIEF DEPUTY EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   Certain elected officials are entitled to appoint one first or Chief
Deputy, and also may appoint the number of other full-time or part-time
deputies and employees authorized by the county fiscal body (County Council).
These officials are:
      (1)   County Auditor;
      (b)   County Treasurer;
      (c)   County Recorder; and
      (d)   County Superintendent of Schools.
(I.C. 36-2-16-4)
   (B)   In addition, other statutes provide for the appointment of a Chief
Deputy employee for other offices. These officials are all elective county
offices, except the offices of:
      (1)   Prosecuting Attorney;
      (2)   Clerk of the Circuit Court; and
      (3)   Judge of any Court.
(I.C. 3-13-7)
   (C)   In any of the instances enumerated in divisions (A) or (B) above,
where no Chief Deputy employee exists for such office as has become vacant, the
Judge of the Circuit Court shall appoint, as soon as it is reasonably possible,
an individual to fill such vacancy for the period of time between when the
vacancy occurs and when it is filled as provided for in I.C. 3-13-6.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-6)
§ 31.031 COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The position of County Administrator is hereby created pursuant to
I.C. 36-2-2-14.
   (B)   The County Administrator shall serve under the supervision of the
Board of Commissioners with such duties and responsibilities as set forth in
this section.
      (1)   The County Administrator shall report directly to the President of
the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The President of the Board of Commissioners shall be responsible
for exercising ordinary supervision over the County Administrator.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners may, pursuant to I.C. 36-2-2-14(a),
withdraw any powers or duties assigned to the County Administrator by
resolution.
      (4)   The Board of Commissioners may, pursuant to I.C. 36-2-2-14(b)(8),
request from time to time that the County Administrator perform additional
duties.
   (C)   The County Administrator shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Commissioners.
(I.C. 36-2-2-14(a))
   (D)   The County Administrator shall receive such compensation and benefits
as may be determined by the Board of Commissioners subject to the usual budget
approval as established by statute.
   (E)   The County Administrator is hereby assigned the following offices,
positions, or duties under the control of the Board of Commissioners as allowed
by I.C. 36-2-2-14(a):
      (1)   He or she shall supervise assigned staff, including the
interviewing of candidates and making hiring decisions; conduct orientation for
new subordinate employees; plan, delegate, and control work assignments;
establish work goals; review salaries or assigned staff and recommend to the
Board of Commissioners such changes as may be appropriate; recommend personnel
actions; and keep supervisors and assigned staff informed of organizational
developments;
      (2)   He or she shall review and make appropriate recommendations at
least annually to the Board of Commissioners for the improvement of the
county’s policies, procedures, and practices on personnel matters;
      (3)   He or she shall maintain knowledge of human resource trends and
employment legislation and regulation and recommend such measures as may be
appropriate to maintain compliance by the county with the same;
      (4)   He or she shall maintain responsibility for the county’s compliance
with federal, state, and local legislation and regulations pertaining to all
personnel matters;
      (5)   He or she shall communicate to all officeholders, department heads,
supervisors, and personnel as appropriate when changes are made in the county’s
personnel policies and procedures and ensure compliance with them;
      (6)   He or she shall assist the Board of Commissioners in the annual
review, preparation, and administration of the county’s wage and salary
program;
      (7)   He or she shall coordinate or conduct exit interviews to determine
the reasons for separations from county employment;
      (8)   He or she shall consult with the County Attorney as appropriate on
personnel matters;
      (9)   He or she shall communicate and work directly with officeholders
and department heads to assist them in carrying out their responsibilities on
personnel matters;
      (10)   He or she shall recommend, evaluate, and participate in staff
development for the county;
      (11)   He or she shall develop and maintain a human resource information
system that meets the county’s personnel needs;
      (12)   He or she shall participate on committees and special projects as
assigned by the president of the Board of Commissioners or by resolution of the
Board of Commissioners;
      (13)   He or she shall administer leave time, including, but not limited
to, Family and Medical Leave Act leave time;
      (14)   He or she shall administer recruiting and job postings;
      (15)   He or she shall revise, update, and maintain the County Employee
Handbook and all required human resources and administrative forms;
      (16)   He or she shall create, update, review, and revise job
descriptions;
      (17)   He or she shall serve as a liaison between the Board of
Commissioners and officeholders and department heads; and
      (18)   He or she shall perform duties related to the above and foregoing
as assigned by the president of the Board of Commissioners or by resolution of
the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   The County Administrator is hereby authorized to do the following
under the supervision of the Board of Commissioners as allowed by I.C. 36-2-2-
14(b), and this section shall be deemed to be a resolution requesting other
duties of the County Administrator for the purposes of I.C. 36-2-2-14(b)(8),
pending such further resolutions as the Board of Commissioners may from time to
time make:
      (1)   He or she shall supervise assigned staff, including the
interviewing of candidates and making hiring decisions; conduct orientation for
new subordinate employees; plan, delegate, and control work assignments;
establish work goals; review salaries or assigned staff and recommend to the
Board of Commissioners such changes as may be appropriate; recommend personnel
actions; and keep supervisors and assigned staff informed of organizational
developments;
      (2)   He or she shall review and make appropriate recommendations at
least annually to the Board of Commissioners for the improvement of the
county’s policies, procedures, and practices on personnel matters;
      (3)   He or she shall maintain knowledge of human resource trends and
employment legislation and regulation and recommend such measures as may be
appropriate to maintain compliance by the county with the same;
      (4)   He or she shall maintain responsibility for the county’s compliance
with federal, state, and local legislation and regulations pertaining to all
personnel matters;
      (5)   He or she shall communicate to all officeholders, department heads,
supervisors, and personnel as appropriate when changes are made in the county’s
personnel policies and procedures and ensure compliance with them;
      (6)   He or she shall assist the Board of Commissioners in the annual
review, preparation, and administration of the county’s wage and salary
program;
      (7)   He or she shall coordinate or conduct exit interviews to determine
the reasons for separations from county employment;
      (8)   He or she shall consult with the County Attorney as appropriate on
personnel matters;
      (9)   He or she shall communicate and work directly with officeholders
and department heads to assist them in carrying out their responsibilities on
personnel matters;
      (10)   He or she shall recommend, evaluate, and participate in staff
development for the county;
      (11)   He or she shall develop and maintain a human resource information
system that meets the county’s personnel needs;
      (12)   He or she shall participate on committees and special projects as
assigned by the president of the Board of Commissioners or by resolution of the
Board of Commissioners;
      (13)   He or she shall administer leave time, including, but not limited
to, Family and Medical Leave Act leave time;
      (14)   He or she shall administer recruiting and job postings;
      (15)   He or she shall revise, update, and maintain the county employee
handbook and all required human resources and administrative forms;
      (16)   He or she shall create, update, review, and revise job
descriptions;
      (17)   He or she shall serve as a liaison between the Board of
Commissioners and officeholders and department heads;
      (18)   He or she shall perform duties related to the above and foregoing
as assigned by the president of the Board of Commissioners or by resolution of
the Board of Commissioners;
      (19)   He or she may attend meetings of the Board of Commissioners and
make such reports as he or she deems appropriate; and
      (20)   He or she shall assist the Board of Commissioners as necessary
with the preparation of the budget submissions required of the Commissioners by
state law.
   (G)   If the County Administrator is absent from the Administrator’s office
due to illness, death, vacation, resignation, or removal, the President of the
Board of Commissioners or a qualified person appointed by the Board of
Commissioners shall act as County Administrator until the County Administrator
returns to the duties of the County Administrator or the executive appoints a
new County Administrator.
(I.C. 36-2-2-14(c))
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 11-4-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-2-2-14(b)(1); (b)(2); (b)(4); (b)(5); (b)
(7); (b)(8)
**** COUNTY ASSESSOR ****
§ 31.045 LOCATION OF OFFICE.
   The County Assessor shall keep his or her office in a building provided at
the county seat by the county executive (County Commissioners).
(I.C. 36-2-15-3) (Prior Code, § 2-8-4)
§ 31.046 HOURS OF BUSINESS.
   The Assessor shall keep his or her office open during regular business hours
on every day of the year, except Sundays and legal holidays. However, he or she
may close the office on days specified by the county executive (County
Commissioners) according to custom and practice of the county.
(I.C. 36-2-15-3) (Prior Code, § 2-8-5)
**** COUNTY RECORDER ****
§ 31.060 FEES CHARGED FOR RECORDING.
   (A)   The County Recorder shall tax and collect the fees prescribed by this
section for recording, filing, copying, and other services he or she render;
subsequently, the County Recorder shall pay these fees into the county treasury
at the end of each calendar month. The fees prescribed and collected under this
section shall be instead of and shall supersede all other recording fees
required by law to be charged for services rendered by the County Recorder.
   (B)   The County Recorder shall charge:
      (1)   Four dollars for the first page and $1.50 for each additional page
of any document he or she records if the pages are not larger than nine by 15
inches in size;
      (2)   Ten dollars for the first page and $3 for each additional page of
any document he or she record if the pages are larger than nine by 15 inches in
size;
      (3)   No fee for recording an official bond of a public officer, deputy,
appointee, or employee;
      (4)   One dollar for attesting to the release or assignment of an
instrument on the record of that instrument;
      (5)   One dollar for cross-reference of a recorder document;
      (6)   Three dollars per page for furnishing typewritten copies of
records;
      (7)   Fifty cents per page for furnishing copies of records produced by a
photographic process;
      (8)   One dollar for acknowledging or certifying to a document; and
      (9)   One dollar for each deed he or she records, in addition to other
fees for deeds, for County Surveyor’s Corner Perpetuation Fund for use as
provided for in I.C. 36-2-12-11(e).
   (C)   As used in this section, RECORD and RECORDING includes the functions
of recording, filing, and filing for record.
   (D)   The County Recorder shall post the fees set forth in division (B)
above in a prominent place within the County Recorder’s office where it will be
readily accessible to the public.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-1)
§ 31.061 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Recorder is a constitutional office and the term of that office under
Article 6, Section of the Constitution of Indiana is four years and continues
until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-2-11-2) (Prior Code, § 2-9-2)
§ 31.062 OFFICE HOURS AND LOCATION.
   The County Recorder’s office shall be located in a building provided by the
County Commissioners. The office shall be open on every day of the year except
Sundays and legal holidays; however, the Recorder may close his or her office
on days specified by the county executive (Commissioners) according to the
custom and practice of the county.
(I.C. 36-2-11-4) (Prior Code, § 2-9-3)
§ 31.063 PAYMENT IN ADVANCE.
   The Recorder may demand the recording fees be paid before entering and
recording the instrument.
(I.C. 36-2-11-6) (Prior Code, § 2-9-4)
§ 31.064 RETURN OF RECORDED INSTRUMENT; PROPER RECORDING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any time that the Recorder has received an instrument for recording,
the Recorder may return it to the person who presented it only after the fee
for recording the instrument has been paid.
(I.C. 36-2-11-7) (Prior Code, § 2-9-5)
   (B)   (1)   The Recorder shall record in books all instruments that are
proper for recording in the order in which they are received in his or her
office for record. Deeds and mortgages shall be recorded in separate books
(I.C. 36-2-11-8 through 36-2-11-12). An entry book shall be kept for this
purpose.
(I.C. 36-2-11-9)
      (2)   The Recorder shall index each volume of instruments by the name of
grantor, promiser, or covenanter in alphabetical order and cross indexed to the
proper grantee, promise, or covenantee. The Recorder shall further keep indexes
of each grantee, promise, or covenantee cross references to the proper grantor,
promisor, or covenantor.
(I.C. 36-2-11-12)
      (3)   The Recorder may record a deed, partition, or conveyance of land
only if it has been endorsed by the Auditor of the proper county as “duly
entered for taxation” or “not taxable.”
       (4)   Exceptions are as follows:
         (a)   The Recorder may receive for recording or filing any instrument
that conveys, creates, encumbers, assigns, or otherwise disposes of an interest
in or lien on property only if the name of the person and governmental agency,
if any, who prepared the instrument is printed, typewritten, stamped, or signed
in a legible manner at the conclusion of the instrument. An instrument complies
with this provision if it is in the following form, “This instrument prepared
by: (Name).”
(I.C. 36-1-11-15)
         (b)   This is not required of an instrument executed before July 1,
1959, or recorded before July 26, 1967, a judgment, order, writ of a court,
will, death certificate, or an instrument executed or acknowledged outside the
state.
(I.C. 36-2-11-15)
      (5)   (a)   The Recorder may record an instrument only if:
            1.   The name of each person who executed the instrument is legibly
printed, typewritten, or stamped immediately beneath his or her signature; or
the signature itself is printed, typewritten, or stamped;
            2.   The name of the notary and each witness is legibly printed,
typewritten, or stamped beneath their signature;
            3.   The name of each person who executes the instrument appears
identically in the body of the instrument, in the acknowledgment or jurat, in
his or her signature, and beneath his or her signature; or
            4.   A proper correcting affidavit made by a person upon personal
knowledge which properly corrects any mistakes or establishes any information
not contained in such other instrument, as required by statute.
(I.C. 36-2-11-16)
         (b)   This division (B)(5) shall not be required of an instrument
executed or acknowledged outside the state.
(I.C. 36-2-11-16(a)(4))
      (6)   All satisfactions, cancellations, and assignments of any kind which
are made on the margin of a record in the Recorder’s office shall be
immediately entered into the entry book, showing the particulars as required by
statute.
(I.C. 36-2-11-18)
      (7)   The recording of affidavits affecting real estate and memorandums
of lease must be made in accordance with the requirements of I.C. 36-2-11-19
and I.C. 36-2-11-20.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-6)
§ 31.065 RECORDING FARM NAMES.
   (A)   An owner of a farm may have the name of his or her farm and a
description of the land to which the name applies recorded in a register kept
for that purpose by the Recorder in the county where the land is situated. The
Recorder, under seal, shall present to the owner a proper certificate setting
forth the name and description of the farm.
   (B)   If the name is recorded as the name of the farm, the name may not be
recorded as the name of another farm in the same county. And, if all of a farm
with such a name is conveyed, the name is not conveyed unless stated in the
deed of conveyance.
   (C)   An owner of a farm may cancel the recorded name of the farm by making
the statement on the margin of the record of the name: “This name is cancelled
and I hereby release all rights thereunder.” The statement must be signed by
the owner and attested to by the Recorder.
(I.C. 36-2-11-17) (Prior Code, § 2-9-7)
§ 31.066 FEDERAL TAX LIENS.
   Notices of federal tax liens and certificates discharging same may be filed
in the Recorder’s office, and the Recorder shall maintain a file labeled
“Federal Tax Lien Notices,” and an index book labeled “Federal Tax Lien Index.”
All entries shall be promptly made.
(I.C. 36-2-11-21) (Prior Code, § 2-9-8)
§ 31.067 CERTAIN BANKRUPTCY MATTERS.
   The Recorder shall record a certified copy of a matter relating to
bankruptcy if federal law requires that the copy be filed in the county in
which lands the bankrupt are located in order to give notice of the bankruptcy.
The Recorder shall record the copy in order to give notice of the bankruptcy.
The Recorder shall record the copy in the miscellaneous records, and shall
index it in the same manner as deeds in the name of the bankrupt as grantor and
in the trustee in bankruptcy or receiver as grantee.
(I.C. 36-2-11-22) (Prior Code, § 2-9-9)
§ 31.068 LIST OF MORTGAGE RELEASES.
   The County Recorder shall, on or before the twentieth day of each month,
furnish the County Auditor a list of the mortgage releases recorded during the
prior month, stating the full name of the mortgagor, the book and page of the
mortgage, the amount being released, and the date of release.
(I.C. 36-2-11-24) (Prior Code, § 2-9-10)
§ 31.069 SEAL.
   The Recorder shall use the official seal when appropriate in attesting an
instrument. Before doing so, the Recorder shall file the impression of the seal
and verified description of that impression in the office of the Clerk of the
Circuit Court for recording into the Circuit Court order book. If the Recorder
has complied with this, then full faith and credit shall be given to such seal
without further attestation.
(I.C. 36-2-11-23) (Prior Code, § 2-9-11)
§ 31.070 RECORDER TO RETAIN DOCUMENTS DURING MICROFILM DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Recorder makes microfilm copies of any instrument, the
Recorder shall keep that instrument and not release it to any person or persons
until the microfilm has been returned from the developers and the clearness of
the images viewed.
   (B)   If the images are not clear, the Recorder shall re-microfilm such
instruments.
   (C)   After a clear microfilm is obtained, then and only then shall the
Recorder release such instruments to the person whose name and address is
clearly typed or printed upon such document.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-12)
**** COUNTY SURVEYOR ****
§ 31.085 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the County Surveyor, elected under Article 6, Section
2 of the Constitution of Indiana, is four years and continues until their
successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-2-12-2) (Prior Code, § 2-11-1)
§ 31.086 OFFICE HOURS.
   The County Commissioners shall furnish the County Surveyor an office in the
county seat, which shall remain open for business during regular business hours
on every day of the year, except Sundays and legal holidays, providing he or
she may close his or her office on days specified by the county executive
(County Commissioners) according to the custom and practice of the county.
(I.C. 36-2-12-3) (Prior Code, § 2-11-2)
§ 31.087 SUPPLIES, EQUIPMENT FURNISHED.
   (A)   The county executive (County Commissioners) shall provide the Surveyor
with all necessary supplied and equipment, including office supplies or the
type furnished to other offices; and surveying instruments and materials
necessary for the discharge of their duties.
   (B)   All such supplies remain the property of the county.
(I.C. 36-2-12-3) (Prior Code, § 2-11-3)
§ 31.088 SEAL.
   The Surveyor may procure and use an official seal.
(I.C. 36-2-12-5) (Prior Code, § 2-11-4)
§ 31.089 CERTAIN POWERS.
   (A)   A Surveyor may:
      (1)   Administer oaths necessary to the discharge of his or her duties;
      (2)   Administer and certify any oaths required to be taken by a
commissioner for the partition of real property, or a Commissioner or other
viewer to view, mark, locate, or relocate a public highway; and
      (3)   He or she may further take, and certify with his or her seal and
signature, acknowledgments of mortgages and deed for the conveyance of real
property.
(I.C. 36-2-12-6)
   (B)   The Surveyor shall keep and maintain a corner record book as required
by law and shall check and reference at least 5% of all corners shown in the
corner record book.
(Prior Code, § 2-11-5)
§ 31.090 ENTRY ON LANDS OF OTHERS.
   While doing his or her work as required by statute, a Surveyor is not
considered a trespasser and is liable only for the actual damages he or she may
cause to the property.
(I.C. 36-2-12-12) (Prior Code, § 2-11-6)
§ 31.091 POWERS, DUTIES.
   This list is not an exhaustive listing of the powers or duties of the County
Surveyor which are set out by case law and statute, but rather is meant to
serve the purpose of pointing out some of the more obvious areas.
(Prior Code, § 2-11-7)
§ 31.092 CHARGES TO COUNTY.
   There is no statutory schedule of fees legally chargeable by a County
Surveyor for locating corners. He or she may not charge the usual fees
chargeable by professional engineers and surveyors for a legal survey. (See
1957 Ind. Attorney General, No. 38.)
(Prior Code, § 2-11-8)
§ 31.093 OUTSIDE INCOME.
   A County Surveyor may, if he or she is a registered engineer or surveyor,
accept contracts in his or her individual capacity and charge for his or her
services, provided that there is no breach of, or conflict with, his or her
official duty, or violations of public policy statutes. He or she is not
required to turn over to the county fees which he or she earn as a private
surveyor during his or her tenure as County Surveyor. (See 1957 Op. Att. Gen.
38.)
(Prior Code, § 2-11-9)
**** COUNTY TREASURER ****
§ 31.105 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The term of the office of County Treasurer elected under Article 6, Section
2 of the Constitution of Indiana is four years and continues until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-2-10-2) (Prior Code, § 2-12-1)
§ 31.106 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The County Commissioners may remove the Treasurer from office if he or she
is delinquent and has been sued upon his or her official bond.
(I.C. 36-2-10-3) (Prior Code, § 2-12-2)
§ 31.107 OFFICE HOURS.
   The Treasurer shall keep the office open for business during regular
business hours on every day of the year except Sundays and legal holidays.
However, he or she may close his or her office on days specified by the County
Commissioners (executive) according to the custom and practice of the county.
(I.C. 36-2-10-4) (Prior Code, § 2-12-3)
§ 31.108 OATHS.
   The Treasurer may administer all oaths necessary in the discharge of the
duties of his or her office.
(I.C. 36-2-10-6) (Prior Code, § 2-12-4)
§ 31.109 RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall receive monies to which the county is entitled and shall
disburse it on warrants which are issued and attested to by the County Auditor
(I.C. 36-2-10-9). He or she shall further issue receipts to each person from
whom he or she receives money.
(I.C. 36-2-10-7) (Prior Code, § 2-12-5)
§ 31.110 INSPECTION BY COMMISSIONERS.
   The records and office of the County Treasurer may be inspected by the
county executive (County Commissioners) at any time.
(I.C. 36-2-10-7) (Prior Code, § 2-12-6)
§ 31.111 WARRANTS.
   County warrants shall be recorded in the order in which they are presented
(I.C. 36-2-10-13) and separate accounts shall be kept on any interest that is
paid.
(I.C. 36-2-10-12) (Prior Code, § 2-12-7)
§ 31.112 MAINTENANCE OF CERTAIN ACCOUNTS.
   The Treasurer shall maintain a separate account for receipts for
expenditures from each specific county fund or appropriation and a general
account of all county receipts and expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 2-12-8)
§ 31.113 MONTHLY FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   Before the sixth day of each month, the Treasurer shall prepare a report
(original and three copies) showing certain items as required by I.C. 36-2-10-
16, upon such forms as furnished by the State Board of Accounts. Moreover, the
Treasurer shall keep the original document and file the three copies with the
County Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 2-12-9)
§ 31.114 ANNUAL, SEMI-ANNUAL SETTLEMENT.
   The statute refers to an “annual settlement” in its heading and then states
that the Treasurer shall make a “semi-annual settlement” with the County
Auditor under I.C. 6-1.1-27-2. There is a semi-annual settlement which is done
twice each year.
(Prior Code, § 2-12-10)
§ 31.115 DESIGNATION OF BANKS.
   The Treasurer may designate a national or state bank in the county as his or
her agent for collecting taxes that are not delinquent.
(I.C. 36-2-10-19) (Prior Code, § 2-12-11)
§ 31.116 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Within one year after the Treasurer receives monies from the
County Coroner under I.C. 36-2-14-11(b) the Treasurer shall deliver it to any
person legally entitled to it or may retain so much of it as is needed to pay
the expenses of the Coroner’s investigation and funeral of the deceased, and
shall sell all property in an execution sale.
      (2)   Moreover, if money is found upon a body is not claimed within one
year from the date the Treasurer receives said monies, he or she shall credit
it to the Common School Fund.
(I.C. 36-2-10-21)
   (B)   If the County Coroner finds money or other property on a body and does
not deliver it to the Treasurer as required by division (A) above, the
Treasurer shall, in his or her own name, bring a civil action against the
Coroner to collect it.
(I.C. 36-2-10-22) (Prior Code, § 2-12-12)
§ 31.117 TAX SALES.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall be present during all tax sales of personal or
real property, and all sales of surplus property held by the county. During
which sales, the Treasurer shall collect monies and give receipts from and to
successful bidders, recording the name and address of any person paying money
to such Treasurer.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall work in conjunction with the Auditor who shall, by
statute, serve as clerk of such sale.
(I.C. 6-1.1-24-5) (Prior Code, § 2-12-13)
**** AUDITOR ****
§ 31.130 FISCAL OFFICER.
   The Auditor is the fiscal officer of the county.
(I.C. 36-2-9-2) (Prior Code, § 2-13-1)
§ 31.131 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The term of the Auditor is for four years and continues until his or her
successor is elected and qualified. He or she shall be elected under Article 6,
Section 2 of the Indiana Constitution.
(Prior Code, § 2-13-2)
§ 31.132 OFFICE HOURS.
   (A)   The Auditor shall keep the office of the Auditor open during the hours
between 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on weekdays (Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, and Friday) each week, and shall close the same on weekends (Saturday
and Sunday) and such official holidays as are determined by the County
Commissioners.
(I.C. 36-2-9-3)
   (B)   Any legal action required to be taken on any date that the Auditor’s
office is closed under §
70.03(A) will be timely taken if taken on the next day that such office is
open.
(Prior Code, § 2-13-3)
§ 31.133 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Auditor shall replace worn maps and plats which are located in his
or her office and which are so worn or defaced that the same are not fit for
use, and shall make an accurate copy of the legible part thereof, and retain
same the records of said Auditor. If a part of the map of plat is illegible,
the Auditor shall resort to the most accurate sources to complete such map or
plat.
(I.C. 36-8, I.C. 36-2-9-5)
   (B)   The Auditor shall further furnish standard forms for use in the
transaction of business under this section and for use in the performance of
services for which he or she receives a specific fee.
(I.C. 36-2-9-6)
   (C)   The Auditor shall perform the duties of the Clerk of the County
Commissioners (county executive) under the provisions of I.C. 36-2-2-11. If the
Auditor cannot perform those duties during a meeting of the County
Commissioners, and he or she does not have a deputy or his or her deputy cannot
attend, then the county executive may deputize a person to perform those duties
during the meeting and proceed with their meeting.
(I.C. 36-2-9-7)
   (D)   The Auditor shall further perform the duties as the Clerk of the
fiscal body (County Council), and keeper of its records (I.C. 36-2-9-8, I.C.
36-2-3-6). The Auditor shall preserve the fiscal body’s proceedings, recording
the “ayes” and “nays” on each vote appropriating money or fixing the rate of a
tax levy, and on all other matters.
   (E)   The Auditor may administer oaths in the performance of his or her
duties, the oath of office to an officer who receives his or her certificate of
appointment or election from the Auditor, and may take acknowledgments of deeds
and mortgages executed for the security of any trust funds he or she is
required to lend.
(I.C. 36-2-9-9)
   (F)   The Auditor, in the name of the state and on behalf of a county fund,
may sue principals or sureties on any obligation, whether the obligation is in
the name of the state or another person.
   (G)   The Auditor shall file the original of the County Treasurer’s monthly
report, under I.C. 36-2-10-16, with the records of the County Board of Finance.
Subsequently, the Auditor shall then present one copy to the County
Commissioners at their next regular meeting, and immediately transmit one copy
to the State Board of Account (I.C. 36-2-9-11). The Auditor shall further keep
accurate account with the County Treasurer. Whenever a receipt is given by the
Treasurer for money paid into the county treasury is deposited with the
Auditor, the Auditor shall:
      (1)   File the Treasurer’s receipt;
      (2)   Charge the Treasurer with the amount of the Treasurer’s receipt;
and
      (3)   Issue his or her own receipt to the person presenting the
Treasurer’s receipt.
(I.C. 36-2-9-11)
   (H)   The Auditor shall keep a separate account for each item of
appropriation made by the county fiscal body (County Council), and in each
warrant he or she draws on the county treasury, the Auditor shall specifically
indicate which item of appropriation the warrant is drawn against. The Auditor
may not permit an item of appropriation to be overdrawn or to be drawn down on
for a purpose other than the specific purpose for which it was made.
   (I)   The issuance of warrants for payment of money from the county treasury
and the penalty for violations; the examination and settlement of accounts and
demands chargeable to the county; the issuance of warrants to satisfy judgments
against the county and the calls for redemption of outstanding county warrants;
and the endorsement of instruments affecting real property title prior to
recording are provided for by statute.
(I.C. 36-2-9-14)
   (J)   The Auditor shall use permanent jet-black ink in the preparation of
all official records.
(I.C. 36-2-17-2)
   (K)   The Auditor shall keep a permanent record of all ordinances passed by
those bodies for whom he or she serves as Clerk (County Commissioner and County
Council).
 
   (L)   (1)   The Auditor shall, on behalf of the county, serve in the
capacity as Records Access Officer with regard to any request made of the
county for access to or release of public records of the county. They shall
prepare, and have available, forms for any person seeking such access or
release to fill out, sign, and present to them for approval.
      (2)   The Auditor shall determine if any of the information has been
exempted from disclosure (unless there is a court order or access to the
records is specifically required by state statute, federal statute, or court
order).
      (3)   Further, should copies be requested upon such form of any such
information which has not been exempted, he or she shall cause same to be made
within a reasonable time and he or she shall collect the fees as provided for
such service.
(I.C. 5-14-3-1)
   (M)   The Auditor shall serve as clerk of such tax sales.
(I.C. 6-1.1-24-5) (Prior Code, § 2-13-4) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 1-11-1984)
§ 31.134 GRIEVANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   The grievance procedure is established to meet the requirements
of the Revenue Sharing Act. It should be used by any individual who wishes to
file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of handicap in employment
practices and policies or the provision of programs, services, and benefits by
the county.
      (2)   The grievance should be in writing and contain as much information
as possible about the alleged discrimination (for example, supply the name,
address, phone number, location, and description of the problem, and the like).
Other arrangements for submission of a grievance, such as a personal interview
or tape recording, will be made available for the visually impaired or those
with motor impairments. It should be submitted by the person making such
grievance, or his or her designee, within 30 calendar days of the alleged
violation to the County Auditor, Lawrence County, Bedford, Indiana 47421, phone
number (812)-275-3111. Office hours are 8:30 a.m. through 4:30 p.m., Monday
through Friday, and closed Saturday and Sunday, and holidays.
      (3)   Within 15 working days after the receipt of the complaint, the
Auditor, as program coordinator, will respond in writing, or by a method
understood to the complainant, to the complainant and/or his or her designee.
The response will offer a resolution or explain the position of the county with
respect to the complaint.
      (4)   If the response by the Auditor does not satisfactorily resolve the
issue, the complainant and/or his or her designee may request a hearing, to be
held within 15 working days of receipt of the response, before the Board of
Commissioners of the county, which is the Handicapped Coordinating Committee,
for resolution (Courthouse, Bedford, Indiana, phone number (812)-275-3111.
Office hours are 8:30 a.m. through 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, and closed
Saturday and Sunday, and holidays).
      (5)   Within 30 calendar days of the hearing, the final resolution in
writing (or by method understood be the complainant) shall be delivered to the
complainant and/or his or her designee by the Board of Commissioners of the
county. Service shall be deemed to have been made if mailed to the address
shown on the written grievance of such person by certified mail, return receipt
requested (unless the county has received written notice of a change of address
of such person). Any and all persons making such complaints to the county must
keep the Board of Commissioners informed or any and all address changes.
      (6)   All complaints received by the Auditor and all responses from the
Auditor or the Board of Commissioners shall be kept in the files of the county
for a minimum of three years, and these documents may be requested by the
office of Revenue Sharing should an investigation into alleged discrimination
on the basis of handicapped status be initiated.
   (B)   The Auditor, and any of his or her duly appointed deputies, shall act
for and on behalf of the county as the officer in charge of dispersing special
grievance forms which shall request in writing the information set forth in
section 5-5-1 above.
   (C)   The Auditor shall then promptly submit the same to the Board of
Commissioners for action at its next regularly scheduled meeting; or if none,
then to said Commissioners within not less than 30 days at a special meeting.
   (D)   The Auditor, or any of his or her duly appointed deputies or
employees, shall further aid any and all persons who might come to his or her
office for assistance because they are handicapped because of an inability to
speak English. The Auditor shall do the following.
      (1)   First, the Auditor shall make every effort to determine the
language of the person being spoken. There are some foreign language teachers
at the high school, as well as other persons living in the community who are
bilingual or multilingual. Every effort shall be made to determine the language
being spoken by the person seeking the help.
      (2)   The use of people in the community who can speak that language and
interpret for that person shall be made as so to translate the person’s wishes.
Then the Auditor, as Compliance Officer hereunder, shall do all that his or her
office can to answer the questions of such person, provided that such questions
pertain to that person’s business with the county and is not just personal
business unrelated to the county.
      (3)   Arrangements have been made with the Indiana University Foreign
Language Department, through the various individual schools, for such
department to furnish an interpreter as the need may arise. Fees and mileage
have already been discussed and agreed upon in advance, so as not to be a time-
consuming problem in getting an interpreter for such person. The University has
promised to send an appropriate person to the county for the purposes of
interpreting if the same cannot be done over the phone. The Auditor is
authorized to enter into such agreements, on behalf of the Board of
Commissioners, as the need arises, so as to give prompt service to such a
handicapped person. The County Commissioners shall pay all fee and mileage for
such interpreters.
(Prior Code, § 2-13-5)
Cross-reference:
   Grievance procedure, §
35.16
§ 31.135 DRAFTS.
   (A)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to issue drafts from
time to time for payment of utility bills incurred by the county without
further authorization.
   (B)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to issue drafts from
time to time for the payment of mailing costs to the U.S. Postmaster and
postage for each department as needed without further authorization.
   (C)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to issue drafts from
time to time for payment of group health, hospitalization, dental, vision,
cancer, and life insurance, worker’s compensation, unemployment, sales and
gross income taxes, retirement, and all payroll deductions including electronic
transfer without further authorization.
   (D)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to issue drafts from
time to time for the payment of employees of the county which said payments
constitute the county payroll without further authorization.
   (E)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to issue drafts from
time to time for the payment of invoices presented to the county for materials,
equipment, goods, and services previously authorized by the Board of
Commissioners by accepting a valid bid, quote, or contract for such material,
equipment, goods and services without further authorization.
   (F)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to issue drafts from
time to time for the registration fees and expenses for schooling and
conferences incurred by the persons who have permission to attend.
   (G)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to issue drafts from
time to time for registration fee for vehicles, titles, and any excise tax that
may be due.
   (H)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to issue a draft
payable, if required, to the Recorder of the county to pay for recordings
without first filing a claim for such payments.
   (I)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to make disbursements
and payments to departments or vendors of departments of the county from grant
funds previously received and approved by the County Board of Commissioners,
this to include all county departments and the Board of Aviation Commissioners
of the county without further authorization.
   (J)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to issue drafts from
time to time for the payments of expenses that must be paid because of
emergency circumstances.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 31.136 INTER-FUND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   The County Auditor be and hereby is granted all necessary authority to
make inter-fund transfers in order to transfer balances from one fund to
another in order to facilitate the claims process.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall keep records on any such transfers that may
occur and report to the County Council all appropriate information regarding
inter-fund transfers.
(Council Res. 2007-02, passed 1-30-2007)
**** BOARDS, COMMISSIONS ****
§ 31.150 HOSPITAL BOARD; ASSOCIATION; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Appointment by the Commissioners. The County Hospital (Dunn Memorial
Hospital Board) shall consist of three Commissioners to serve as members of an
11-member Board, and it shall appoint either two or three other Board members,
depending on whether the hospital was acquired and equipped with the aid of a
hospital association provided under I.C. 16-22-2, or without the aid of such a
hospital association.
(I.C. 16-22-2) (Prior Code, § 2-7-1)
   (B)   Appointment by the Council.
      (1)   The County Hospital Governing Board (Dunn Memorial Hospital Board)
shall consist of either two or five members that are appointed by the County
Council, depending on whether or not the County Hospital was equipped without
the aid of a hospital association provided under I.C. 16-12-20 (in which case,
the County Council shall appoint five members).
      (2)   In the case in which the County Hospital was equipped with the aid
of a hospital association, the number of County Council appointments to the
Board is reduced to two. The members of this 11-person board shall have two-
year staggered terms (see I.C. 16-22-2).
(Prior Code, § 2-7-2)
   (C)   County Hospital Association. Pursuant to I.C. 16-22-6-2, the Board
hereby establishes, reestablishes, and/or re-constitutes, as appropriate, the
County Hospital Association (the Association), a body corporate and politic, to
exercise the powers set forth in the Act (I.C. 16-22-6 et seq.),or otherwise
granted by law. Pursuant to the Act, the Association shall be governed by a
board of directors, consisting of five members, to be appointed by the Board.
   (D)   Hospital Authority. There is hereby created a Hospital Authority of
the county which shall be a body corporate and politic for the purpose of
financing, acquiring, constructing, equipping, and leasing one or more projects
(as defined in I.C. 5-1-4) to participating hospitals located in the county and
to have all the powers now or hereafter granted to an authority under the Act.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-1)
(Res. 2009-02, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 31.151 BOARD OF FINANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners serve as “ex-officio” members.
   (B)   This Board is responsible for the supervision of all public funds of
the county, including safekeeping and deposit.
(I.C. 5-12-1-7) (Prior Code, § 2-7-1)
§ 31.152 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   A five-member Board made up of the County Assessor, ex-officio, County
Auditor, ex-officio, County Treasurer, ex-officio, and two freeholders
appointed by the Board of Commissioners, which appointees must reside in the
county and must have different political parties.
(I.C. 6-1.1-28-1) (Prior Code, § 2-7-1)
§ 31.153 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BOARD.
   (A)   Appointment by the Commissioners. A three-member Board with one
appointee to be made by the Board of Commissioners, another by the County
Council, and another by the mayor of the largest city in the county. Not more
than two members shall have the same political party.
(I.C. 7.1-2-4-6) (Prior Code, § 2-7-1)
   (B)   Appointment by the Council. There shall be four members of the County
Alcoholic Beverage Board. One member shall be appointed by the County Council.
There are specific requirements as to the qualifications and there is a
limitation on the number of appointees who may be of the same political party.
(I.C. 7.1-2-4-6) (Prior Code, § 2-7-2)
§ 31.154 BOARD OF AVIATION COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Appointment by the Commissioners. Four of the seven members shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners; two members shall be appointed by the
mayor of the largest city in the county, and one member shall be appointed by
the County Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-1)
   (B)   Appointment by the Council. One member of the seven-member Board is to
be appointed by the County Council. There are specific restrictions as to the
number of persons belonging to the same political party. The members of this
Board may not hold elective office.
(I.C. 8-22-2-1) (Prior Code, § 2-7-2)
   (C)   Increase of members.
      (1)   The County Board of Aviation Commissioners shall hereafter consist
of five members as provided for by I.C. 8-22-2-1(g). Not more than three
members may be of the same political party.
      (2)   (a)   Following passage of this division (C), the County Board of
Commissioners shall take up the matter and appoint a fifth member of the County
Board of Aviation Commissioners pursuant to I.C. 8-22-2-1(b).
         (b)   The Board of County Commissioners shall undertake this as soon
as practicable during a regular meeting of said Board.
         (c)   The Board of County Commissioners may submit and consider
recommendations from the Board of Aviation Commissioners in making its
appointment of the fifth member to the Board of Aviation Commissioners.
(Council Res. 2018-03, passed 4-24-2018)
§ 31.155 BOARD OF PUBLIC WELFARE.
   (A)   There is established a County Board of Public Welfare by I.C. 12-1-3-
1. However, this Board is under the control the State Department of Public
Welfare (I.C. 12-1-3-3).
   (B)   The county has no control over such Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-1-10)
§ 31.156 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   Reference is made to I.C. 16-1-5-1 and 16-1-7-10 for alternative methods of
appointment to the Board of Health, with the choice as to which being
determined by certain other criteria set forth in the statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-1-11)
§ 31.157 BOARD OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   A seven-member Board made up of the Judge of Circuit Court, President of the
Board of Commissioners, County Auditor, County Recorder, Clerk of Circuit
Court, Superintendent of Schools of the school district that includes the
county seat, and Clerk-Treasurer of the county seat (Bedford).
(I.C. 5-15-6-1) (Prior Code, § 2-7-1-13)
§ 31.158 BOARD OF TAX ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Appointment by the Commissioners. The seven-member Board consists of
four freeholders appointed by the County Commissioners, one person appointed by
the County Council, one member appointed by the mayor of the largest city in
the county (now Bedford), and one appointee selected by the school board of the
school corporation with the largest taxable valuation (North Lawrence, at
present).
(I.C. 6-1.1-29-1) (Prior Code, § 2-7-1)
   (B)   Appointment by the Council. A County Council member shall serve as one
member on this seven-member Board.
(I.C. 6-1.1-29-1) (Prior Code, § 2-7-2)
§ 31.159 LIBRARY BOARD; CONTRACTUAL LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   County Library Board.
      (1)   Appointment by the Commissioners. Currently, the law on this point
is changing and nothing definite can be said other than the possibility of one
or more appointments by the Board of Commissioners. Pub. Law 127-12984 (non-
code), and I.C. 20-12-2.5-4 and I.C. 20-14-2.5-11 currently provides for at
least one appointment by the County Commissioners and one appointment
determined by the County Council. New legislation may limit the number or time
of appointment.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-1-17)
      (2)   Appointment by the Council. This Board shall consist of four
members, two of which are appointed by the county fiscal body (County Council)
and two are appointed by the County Auditor, if there is no County
Superintendent of Schools.
(I.C. 20-12-6-5, as amended by I.C. 20-12-2.5-11) (Prior Code, § 2-7-2-5)
   (C)   County Contractual Library Board. Current state law states that four
members of County Contractual Library Board, required by I.C. 20-14-6-5, shall
be appointed as follows:
      (1)   Two members appointed by the executive of the county (County
Commissioners) in which the County Contractual Library District is located.
      (2)   Two members appointed by the County Superintendent of Schools, or
if there is no county Superintendent, by the County Auditor of the county in
which the Library District is located.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-1)
§ 31.160 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 11-12-2-2, the County Community Corrections Advisory
Board is hereby created (subject to the conditions of division (B)(6) below),
the membership consisting of the following:
      (1)   The County Sheriff;
      (2)   The Prosecuting Attorney;
      (3)   The Director of the County Welfare Department;
      (4)   The mayor of the most populous municipality in the county (at this
point in time, this would be the City of Bedford);
      (5)   One judge having criminal jurisdiction, appointed by the Judge of
the Circuit Court;
      (6)   One judge having juvenile jurisdiction, appointed by the Judge of
the Circuit Court;
      (7)   One attorney with substantial criminal defense practice, appointed
by the Judge of the Circuit Court; and
      (8)   The following members, appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners:
         (a)   One probation officer;
         (b)   One educational administrator;
         (c)   One representative of a private correctional agency if such an
agency exists in the county;
         (d)   One mental health administrator, or if there is none available
in the county, one psychiatrist, psychologist, or physician;
         (e)   One ex-offender, if available; and
         (f)   Four lay persons, at least one of whom must be a member of a
minority race if a racial minority resides in the county and a member of that
minority is willing to serve.
   (B)   (1)   Members of the Advisory Board appointed by the County
Commissioners shall be appointed for a term of four years; the criminal defense
attorney shall likewise be appointed for a term of four years. Other members
serve only while [MISSING TEXT]
         [MISSING TEXT] purposes of transacting business, a majority of the
membership constitutes a quorum. A vacancy in the membership does not impair
the right of a quorum to transact business.
      (4)   The Secretary shall keep a record of the date of the appointment
and expiration of all members, and shall furnish such list to the County
Commissioners in the month of December of each years, commencing December 1991.
      (5)   The Board of Commissioners and County Council shall provide
necessary assistance and appropriations to the Community Corrections Advisory
Board established for the county.
      (6)   The creation of the Community Corrections Advisory Board is
conditioned upon the County Commissioners, at a later time and by majority
vote, being able to also dissolve said Community Corrections Advisory Board.
This section would not be adopted if it were not for this provision being
included. Should this section ever be judicially determined to not permit the
County Commissioners to have such power, then this section shall automatically
come to an end and the County Community Corrections Advisory Board shall
automatically cease to exist at that time.
(Res. passed 12-18-1990)
§ 31.161 TOURISM COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Tourism Commission is hereby confirmed and ratified.
   (B)   The number of members of the Tourism Commission shall be set at seven,
to be appointed and representative of the constituents set forth at I.C. 6-9-
18-5(b) as follows:
 
Innkeepers of the county One member
The City of Bedford      Three members
The County Commissioners Three members
 
   (C)   The terms of officer for each appointee shall comply with the
requirements of I.C. 6-9-18-5(d).
   (D)   The Tourism Commission shall meet, appoint officers, and determine a
quorum for meetings under the requirements of I.C. 6-9-18-5(h).
   (E)   Each Tourism Commission member shall complete and file an oath of
office under the requirements of I.C. 6-9-18-5(g).
   (F)   The Tourism Commission shall have all the powers prescribed to it
pursuant to I.C. 6-9-18-6.
   (G)   The Tourism Commission shall maintain all accounts, books, records,
budgets, and all of its financial matters under the requirements of I.C. 6-9-
18-7, and is subject to audit by the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 31.162 FAIRGROUNDS PRESERVATION COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The County Commissioners hereby establish the County Fairground
Preservation Committee, the same being considered a department established and
operated out of the Commissioners’ budget.
   (B)   Said Committee shall have regular members appointed by the constituent
members as follows:
      (1)   The County Commissioners: one member;
      (2)   The County Council: one member; and
      (3)   The County 4-H Clubs and Fair Association: one member.
   (C)   (1)   The term of each member shall be from January 1 through December
31 for each calendar year of the operation of the Committee.
      (2)   If the appointment is made later, then the appointment shall be
effective on the date of appointment by the constituent body. Each position
must be appointed or reappointed every year.
   (D)   The primary purpose of the Committee shall be to identify and
undertake projects that further the aims of restoration, preservation,
maintenance, or improvement of the physical plant and facilities at the County
Fairgrounds.
   (E)   Funding for this Committee shall come from the County Council. All
budgets and appropriations shall be subject to the regular county funding
processes followed by the county government each year.
   (F)   Funding for any particular project recommended by the Committee shall
be subject to approval by the Commissioners and allocation of funds by the
Council. The Auditor of the county shall establish appropriate budget lines for
the Committee.
   (G)   In that all of the projects contemplated hereby shall be pursued on
the real property of the County 4-H Clubs and Fair Association, the Committee
shall have the full authority to make and execute an interlocal agency
agreement, or any other written instrument needed to implement an approved
project.
   (H)   In that this Committee is being formed by the County Commissioners,
the Committee shall conduct its meetings and business, and make expenditures in
compliance with all applicable state laws as it relates to county governmental
entities.
   (I)   The County Fairgrounds Preservation Committee shall meet at least one
time per quarter in any given calendar year in which it is in existence and is
engaged in its work, or more often if the need so requires.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-23-2021)
§ 31.163 911 ADVISORY BOARD.
   The County Commissioners approves the establishment of the County 911
Advisory Board (hereinafter referred to as the Advisory Board) in order to
develop policy and advice for the effective and efficient operation of the
County 911 system. The Board shall operate under the following guidelines.
   (A)   Service to the public shall be the guiding principle in all of the
Advisory Board’s endeavors, as it seeks to improve 911 operations by
establishing and maintaining practical and measurable operational standards for
dispatch services.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall meet quarterly or at any time there is
pressing issues that must be addressed before the next scheduled quarterly
meeting.
   (C)   The Advisory Board shall consist of seven members as follows:
      (1)   The County Sheriff;
      (2)   A County Commissioner;
      (3)   The County Emergency Management;
      (4)   The City of Mitchell representative appointed by the Mayor of
Mitchell;
      (5)   The Chief of a County Rural Fire Department; and
      (6)   A emergency medical services member serving the county.
(Res. 2019-03, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 31.164 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created a Board to be known as the County
Redevelopment Commission. All members of the County Redevelopment Commission
shall be appointed as provided for by statute. Each Redevelopment Commissioner
shall serve for one year from the first day of January after his or her
appointment and until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified,
except that the original Commissioners shall serve from the date of their
appointment until the first day of January in the second year after their
appointment. If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the same
manner as the original Commissioner, and the successor shall serve for the
remainder of the vacated term.
      (2)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by
law, to be endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall
be promptly filed with the Auditor of the county.
      (3)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to be approved
by the Commissioners. The bond must be in a penal sum of $15,000 and must be
conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and
the accounting for all monies and property that may come into his or her hands
or under his or her control. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the
Redevelopment District.
   (B)   Such Commissioners shall have the qualifications prescribed by the
laws of the state as from time to time amended and shall qualify as therein
provided; and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers and assume the
duties and obligations conferred and imposed by said Act (see I.C. 36-7-14),
including, but not limited to, the following qualifications.
      (1)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age and
must be a resident of the county. If a Commissioner ceases to be qualified
under this division (B), he or she forfeits his or her office.
      (2)   No Redevelopment Commissioner of the county shall receive a salary,
but such Redevelopment Commissioners are entitled to reimbursement for expenses
necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
      (3)   A Redevelopment Commissioner may not have a pecuniary interest in
any contract, employment, purchase, or sale made under the provisions of this
section and the Act.
      (4)   However, any property required for redevelopment purposes in which
a Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be acquired, but only by gift or
condemnation. A transaction made in violation of this division (B)(4) is void.
(Ord. 2021-5, passed 4-13-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Department of Redevelopment, §
31.180
§ 31.165 PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD.
   (A)   The County Public Defender Board is hereby established for the purpose
of providing legal representation to indigent defendants/respondents in
criminal, juvenile, probation violation, extradition, child support, civil
commitments, and other proceedings where the right to counsel has been
established by law.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The County Public Defender Board created by this section.
      INDIGENT DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal representation
and is determined by the Court to be entitled to legal representation at public
expense.
      LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
         (a)   The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/respondent
in a matter originating in a state court in the county involving:
            1.   A person charged with a crime as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-75;
            2.   An act of delinquency as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2;
            3.   A violation of a condition of probation established as a part
of a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
            4.   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
            5.   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C.
31-16-17-12;
            6.   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
            7.   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
      (b)   The term LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection with
all pre-trial, trial, and appellate proceedings in which an indigent defendant/
respondent has a right to counsel.
   (C)   (1)   The Board shall consist of three members: one member appointed
by the County Commissioners, and two members from different political parties
appointed by majority vote of the judges who exercise felony or juvenile
jurisdiction.
      (2)   (a)   The initial term of the member appointed by the County
Commissioners shall expire on ___________ 2011. The initial term of one member
appointed by the judges shall expire on ___________ 2012, and the initial term
of the other member appointed by the judges shall expire on ___________ 2013.
         (b)   After the initial term of each member, appointments shall be for
three-year terms. Members of the Board shall serve until their successor is
appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
      (3)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of
the Board: a city, town, or county attorney, a law enforcement officer, a
judge, or a court employee.
      (4)   Board members shall serve without pay but may receive reimbursement
for expenses incurred in connection with the member’s duties if approved by the
Board.
      (5)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be
approved by a majority of the members present.
      (6)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly or upon call of its
Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
      (7)   The Board shall elect its Chairperson by a majority vote of the
Board.
   (D)   The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
         (1)   (a)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal
representation to indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance
with I.C. 33-40-7-5.
            (b)   The comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
               1.   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at
the earliest possible point in time;
               2.   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by
the same attorney or attorneys through the pending of the matter to the
greatest extent possible; and
               3.   Professional development, continuing legal education, and
malpractice coverage for public defenders.
      (2)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent
legal representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support, and criminal contempt, and
other matters pursuant to the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of
indigency and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation
provided at public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-11;
      (4)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Agency and monitor the
expenditures of funds; and
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public an
annual report on the operation of the Agency.
   (E)   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to abridge the authority of
any judge of a state court of this county from appointing counsel for any
person entitled thereto under the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the state.
   (F)   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create a right of
reimbursement pursuant to I.C. 33-40-6, except to the extent that any claims
for reimbursement comply with I.C. 33-40-6 and the standards of the State
Public Defender Commission.
(Ord. 04, passed 8-3-2010)
**** DEPARTMENTS ****
§ 31.180 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Redevelopment of the county
which shall be entitled to exercise all the rights, powers, privileges, and
immunities accorded such Department by the Act (see I.C. 36-7-14).
   (B)   Such Department of Redevelopment of the county shall be under the
control of a Board of five members to be known as the County Redevelopment
Commission.
   (C)   The Auditor of the county is charged by law for the performance of
duties in respect to the funds and accounts of the county, and shall perform
the same duties with respect to the funds and accounts of the Department of
Redevelopment, except as otherwise provided for in the Act.
(Ord. 2021-5, passed 4-13-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Redevelopment Commission, §
31.164
§ 31.181 FORENSICS SERVICES CENTER.
   (A)   The County Forensics Services Center is hereby established.
   (B)   The County Coroner shall serve as Director of said Department at this
time. The County Commissioners reserve the right to change the Director of said
Department at its discretion without the need of any prescribed amount of prior
notice. Said Director of the Department shall be an “at will” employee as that
term is defined under state law.
   (C)   (1)   The Director of the Department shall develop and implement
regulations, rules, and procedures as may be needed for the operation of said
Department.
      (2)   Any and all regulations, rules, and procedures adopted shall be
subject to review and approval by the County Commissioners.
   (D)   The Department shall establish proper accounts through the County
Coroner’s budget and maintain said accounts through the County Auditor. All
accounts for the Department shall be established and maintained and used
consistently with the laws and rules overseen and regulated by the State Board
of Accounts.
   (E)   (1)   The Department is authorized to charge fees and make payments
associated with the use and maintenance of the Forensics Services Center.
      (2)   Said fees and payments shall be subject to review and modification
by the County Commissioners at its discretion.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 1-12-2016)
Cross-reference:
   Forensics Services Center fee schedule, §
32.26
§ 31.182 COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT; OVERTIME.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all hourly employees of the County Highway
Department. Those not affected by this section shall be the County Highway
Superintendent, all Assistant County Highway Superintendents including, but not
limited to, those serving in the capacity of Assistant County Highway
Superintendent-District Foreman, Assistant County Highway Superintendent-Bridge
Foreman, and Assistant County Highway Superintendent-Bookkeeper, which persons
are excluded from this section by virtue of said persons being an employee of
the Board of Commissioners and all of whom are personal staff members of said
Board of Commissioners involved in policy making positions.
   (B)   Not regulated or covered by this section are the existing county
policies on vacation, holidays, sick pay, severance pay, and fringe benefits.
   (C)   (1)   Effective April 14, 1986, the Board of Commissioners shall pay
each employee, as defined in division (A) above, overtime pay calculated on the
basis of one and one-half times such employee’s regular hourly rate for all
hours worked over 40.
      (2)   To be eligible for such overtime pay, such employee must be on the
job physically, and ready and able for work to be assigned to such employee;
further, such employee must actually work such period claimed.
      (3)   In order that the county be advised of its obligations to pay any
such overtime, the time card for such employee, so signed by such employee and
approved in writing by his or her authorized supervisor, must be physically
delivered to the County Auditor for payment in advance. The employee must
verify that same is accurate.
      (4)   All pay for overtime, while computed on a weekly basis, shall
nevertheless be paid every two weeks in the same manner as the employee’s
regular compensation is paid. The overtime compensation shall be based upon the
regular pay rate at the time such hours were worked. However, if an employee
should work a certain number of hours at one job with one pay rate and
additional hours at another job with a different pay rate, shall be paid by
paying the straight time hourly rate for the job such employee is actually
performing during such overtime hours, plus an additional overtime premium
equal to one-half their weighted average hourly rate for the week. The weighted
average hourly rate will equal the total straight time pay for the week divided
by the total number of hours worked as provided by law.
   (D)   Upon forms provided by the County Auditor’s office, all employees
shall keep a regular, accurate record of their hours worked for each workday,
and the total hours worked by such employee for each and all workweeks. This
record shall include the time which said employee began work for that workday,
the time which employment ended for that workday, and any hours (or parts
thereof) of overtime for that day. Such time sheet shall be signed by the
employee who shall verify the correctness of its contents. Such time sheet
shall further be approved, in writing, by the County Highway Superintendent and
turned over to the Assistant County Highway Superintendent in charge of
bookkeeping who shall tabulate and verify the total hours to the Auditor,
together with any overtime pay to which such employee may be entitled to. Such
overtime pay shall be paid within 30 days of the submission of same to the
County Auditor.
   (E)   In addition thereto, the County Highway Superintendent’s office shall
keep an accurate record of all vacation days, sick days, and personal leave
days of each employee upon forms prescribed by the office of the County
Auditor.
   (F)   All records hereunder shall be maintained for a minimum of three
years.
   (G)   No overtime shall be paid for any hours not shown upon the time sheets
received by the office of the County Auditor, and it shall be the
responsibility of the County Highway Superintendent to see that the same are
turned in a timely manner to the Auditor. It is further the responsibility of
each employee to make an accurate record of the information required herein and
the county shall be entitled to rely upon any time sheet so signed by such
employee as being an accurate representative of such work record.
   (H)   This section shall be in effect on April 15, 1986, beginning at 12:01
a.m. and shall continue until further action by the Board of Commissioners.
   (I)   It is recognized that the law regarding overtime under the Fair Labor
Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., is in a state of flux with the
Board of Commissioners having only rough drafts of the law upon which to base
this section. It may become necessary to change this section from time to time
to comply with provisions of the law not yet know to the Board of
Commissioners.
   (J)   This section shall likewise apply to any employees employed after the
date listed in division (H) above.
   (K)   (1)   Any employee who may have another job and which other job is
subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., must
report the same to the Auditor in writing and must notify the Assistant County
Highway Superintendent in charge of bookkeeping immediately of all hours worked
on said other job in order that the overtime requirements of the Fair Labor
Standards Act may be met.
      (2)   In such case, overtime shall be computed as provided by the Fair
Labor Standards Act.
(Prior Code, § 8-34-2) (Ord. 86-, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 31.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any Auditor who knowingly violates §
31.133, by statute, commits a Class A misdemeanor under state law.
(I.C. 36-2-9-13) (Prior Code, § 2-13-4)
CHAPTER 32: FEES AND FINANCES
Section
Finances
   
32.01   Public purchases; methods of disposing property
   
32.02   County credit card
   
32.03   Payments to membership organizations
Fees
   
32.15   Collection of check service fees by prosecuting attorney
   
32.16   Enhanced access services for copying costs
   
32.17   Oversized copies fees
   
32.18   Background check services
   
32.19   Finger printing services
   
32.20   Real property endorsement
   
32.21   Sheriff’s Sale Program
   
32.22   Gun range fees
   
32.23   Sex and violent offenders fees
   
32.24   Use of courthouse fees
   
32.25   Property tax abatement filing fee
   
32.26   Forensics Services Center fees
   
32.27   Fee schedule
Enhanced Emergency Telephone System Fee
   
32.40   Established
   
32.41   Definitions
   
32.42   Monthly fee
   
32.43   Service supplier fee
   
32.44   Remittal fee
   
32.45   Delinquent fee report
   
32.46   Commencement of fee collection
   
32.47   State code controlling
Internal Control Standards
   
32.60   Purpose
   
32.61   Written notice
   
32.62   Materiality threshold
   
32.63   Items not reported
   
32.64   Materiality
   
32.65   Declaration
 
   
32.99   Penalty
**** FINANCES ****
§ 32.01 PUBLIC PURCHASES; METHODS OF DISPOSING PROPERTY.
   (A)   Public purchases.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (A), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         DISPOSING AGENT. The board or officer of a political subdivision or
agency having the power to award contracts for which public notice is required,
with respect to property of the political subdivision or agency.
(I.C. 36-1-11-2)
         PURCHASING AGENT. The board or officer having the power to award
contracts for the purchase or lease of materials for a political subdivision or
agency.
(I.C. 36-1-9-2)
      (2) Purchase price.
         (a)   If the purchase price exceeds $25,000, the agent who is
authorized to do the purchasing for any board, office, association, or
commission of the county must comply with all of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-9-
1, preparing specifications where necessary, receiving bids, letting contracts
at a fixed price, and notice published in accordance with the provision of I.C.
5-3-1-1 through 5-3-1-9.
         (b)   If the purchase price is less than $25,000, the agent who is
authorized to do the purchasing for any particular board, office, association,
or commission must comply with the provision of I.C. 36-1-9-4, which provides
for an alternative of inviting quotes from at least three different persons.
Further, if no valid quotes are received for an item, the agent may purchase or
lease that item on the open market without further invitation or reception of
quotes, but the amount of purchase from one person is limited to $15,000.
(I.C. 36-1-9-5)
      (3)   Emergencies. In the case of emergency, the purchasing agent, upon a
declaration of emergency, may purchase or lease materials without giving notice
or receiving bids, if quotes are invited from two or more persons known to deal
in the materials required. The purchasing agent must record the declaration of
emergency and the names of those person invited to quote in the minutes of the
political subdivision or agency.
(I.C. 36-1-9-11)
      (4)   Open market. Where no items are purchased upon to open market as
provided for in division (A)(5) below, then all purchases must have a specific
contract specifying quantity, number of items ordered, date of delivery, method
of delivery, and maximum time for performance beyond which such order shall
automatically terminate.
      (5)   Bids. All bids provided for in this section shall be upon forms
provided for by the State Board of Accounts, and shall be accompanied by the
properly executed non-collusion affidavit (I.C. 36-1-9-8) and bond or certified
check, as I.C. 36-1-9-6 requires (certified checks for non-residents and bond
for state residents).
(Prior Code, § 2-5-1)
   (B)   Sale, disposal of real estate, personal property.
      (1)   A disposing agent, as defined in division (A)(1) above, who sells
or transfers personal property must comply with I.C. 36-1-11-6 which requires a
public auction for one item with an estimated value of $500, or more than one
item with an estimated total value of $1,000. Moreover, I.C. 36-1-11-6 also
permits the public or private sale of one item worth less than $500, or more
than one item with an estimated total value of less than $1,000. Worthless
property, however, may be demolished or junked.
(I.C. 36-1-11-6)
      (2)   Whenever a disposing agent purchases new property with a condition
that property of a similar nature is to be traded in or exchanged as a part of
the purchase and in reduction of the purchase price, the exchange or trade-in
may be made without advertising the disposal of such property for sale.
(I.C. 36-1-11-9)
      (3)   A transfer or exchange of property may be made with a governmental
entity upon terms agreed upon by both governmental entities as evidenced by the
adoption of a substantially identical resolution by each entity. Such transfer
may be made for any amount of real property, cash, or other personal property,
as agreed upon by entities.
(I.C. 36-1-11-8)
      (4)   (a)   Approval of sale of real estate of any value is required by
the Board of Commissioners, and if the appraised value is $10,000 or more, then
the County Council must likewise approve such sale.
         (b)   In any event, a public hearing must first be had, regardless of
the sale price.
(I.C. 36-1-11-3)
      (5)   Provided, however, that there is an alternative method of disposal
which may be used only if permission is obtained from the County Commissioners,
which is set forth in I.C. 36-1-11-12.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-2)
§ 32.02 COUNTY CREDIT CARD.
   The county holds a credit card for Wal-Mart. The following policy shall be
followed for its use.
   (A)   The credit card is to be held by the County Auditor’s office.
   (B)   (1)   Any department that uses the card shall sign the card in and out
with date and time noted.
      (2)   The department shall then immediately return the card along with a
receipt and completed claim form to the County Auditor’s office.
   (C)   Any department that fails to comply with this policy will forfeit the
right to use the credit card and will be subject to pay any and all interest
added to credit card account.
(Document, “Credit Card Policy”)
§ 32.03 PAYMENTS TO MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to budget, and the County
Council is authorized to appropriate funds from the General Fund or from other
funds, to provide membership for the county and for the elected and appointed
officials and members of the county’s boards, councils, departments, or
agencies in local, regional, state, and national associations of a civic,
educational, or governmental nature, which has, as their purpose, the
betterment and improvement of county government operations.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners is further authorized to budget and the
County Council is further authorized to appropriate funds to pay the expense of
duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and functions of
organizations to which the county belongs.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-2) (Ord. 1982-3, passed 9-27-1983)
**** FEES ****
§ 32.15 COLLECTION OF CHECK SERVICE FEES BY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Prosecuting Attorney of the county is authorized to collect a
check service fee on behalf of any individual, person, firm, corporation, or
any other legal entity who is or may be the holder or payee of any check or
draft that has been turned over to the office of the Prosecuting Attorney for
prosecution or collection.
   (B)   The Prosecuting Attorney of the county is authorized to collect said
check service fee from the maker, drawer, or any other responsible individual
on any check or draft that has been returned to the payee named thereon or
holder thereof by a financial institution for non-payment.
   (C)   The Prosecuting Attorney is hereby authorized to retain all check
service fees so collected, and to deposit the same into a trust checking
account, established and maintained by the Prosecuting Attorney, or his or her
designate.
   (D)   All funds so collected, less any amounts returned to the payees or
holders who turned over said checks or drafts to the office of the Prosecuting
Attorney for the prosecution or collection, are hereby declared to be General
Fund miscellaneous revenues.
   (E)   The office of the Prosecuting Attorney shall maintain such books,
records, and accounts as may, from time to time, be prescribed by the State
Board of Accounts; in the absence or failure of the State Board of Accounts to
prescribe such books, records, or accounts, in writing, the Prosecuting
Attorney may establish such records or accounts as he or she, in his or her
discretion, deem necessary and appropriate to properly account for said funds;
all of such books, records, and accounts shall be open at all times for
examination by the State Board of Accounts.
   (F)   Monthly, the office of the Prosecuting Attorney shall turn over to the
Auditor of the county all check service fees collected during the preceding
month less the amounts returned to the payees or holders who turned over check
or drafts to the office of the Prosecuting Attorney for prosecution or
collection.
   (G)   The Prosecuting Attorney may, at the time of turning over such funds
to the County Auditor, file with the Auditor a request for an additional
appropriation to the budget of the Prosecuting Attorney of the county in the
amount not to exceed that of the funds turned over to the Auditor and to be
acted upon by the County Council at its next scheduled meeting.
   (H)   The collection of any check service fee or the amount of the fee to be
charged, within the statutory limits of I.C. 35-43-5-5(e), or the percentage of
said fee returned to the payees or holders and the percentage of said fee
retained by the office of the Prosecuting Attorney, shall be discretionary with
the office of the Prosecuting Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 8-33-1) (Ord. 86-1, passed 1-7-1986)
§ 32.16 ENHANCED ACCESS SERVICES FOR COPYING COSTS.
   (A)   There is established an enhanced access user’s fee (hereinafter
“enhanced access fee”) for providing enhanced access to electronic data or
other county services in accordance with I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.
   (B)   The enhanced access fee shall be uniform to all purchasers without
regard for the purpose or use of the data therefrom. The enhanced access fee
imposed shall depend upon the products and/or services requested by the
purchaser. The enhanced access fee shall be paid by any person or entity that
requests enhanced access to the county’s electronic data or other county
services. The prices for the products and services offered by the county shall
be as set out in division (F) below.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the county or
any of its departments, elected officials, or employees to provide enhanced
access to public documents or county services.
   (D)   In the event that the fees for enhanced access established by the
county are contrary to any charge established by state statutes, the state
statute shall apply.
   (E)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person other than
those authorized by the county may reproduce, store, grant access to, deliver,
or sell any information obtained by or through enhanced access services from
any department or office of the county to any other person. In addition, any
person who receives information from the county through enhanced access
services shall not be permitted to use any mailing lists, addresses, or
databases for the purpose of selling, advertising, or soliciting the purchase
of information or services, or to sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver
the information obtained by the request to any other person.
   (F)   The enhanced access fees are as follows.
Online Service Online Service Description County’s Enhanced Service Fee
Online      Online Service Description                                          County’s Enhanced Service Fee
Service
Additional  • Zoning
map         • Hydrology                                                       $250 each delivery, which shall be paid to the county in addition to a
information                                                                     $250 data extraction fee from 39° north for a single layer or $500 for
(per layer  • Metadata (if available included in data exports)                multiple layers.
fee)
            • Parcel number and parcel boundaries information with projection
            files
Basic       • Street centerline files                                         $250 each delivery, which shall be paid to the county in addition to a
cadastrial  • Subdivision names and boundaries                                $250 data extraction fee from 39° north for a single layer or $500 for
information • Lot dimensions                                                  multiple layers.
            • Grid file-map index grid, section-township-range
            • County and/or city boundaries
 
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 32.17 OVERSIZED COPIES FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The County Surveyor is authorized to assess a fee of $10 per
page for oversized color copies of plats and other oversized copies he or she
makes using the Canon IPF 785 copier.
      (2)   The County Surveyor is authorized to assess a fee of $5 per page
for oversized black and white copies of plats and other oversized copies he or
she makes using the OCE Plotwave 340 plotter/scanner.
      (3)   The County Surveyor is authorized to assess a fee of $0.25 per page
for scanning copies of plats and other oversized he or she makes using the OCE
Plotwave 340 plotter/scanner.
   (B)   All fees collected for oversized color and black and white copies and
scans shall be deposited in accordance with the rules and regulations of the
State Board of Accounts and shall be maintained in the County Surveyor’s
Oversized Color Copy Fund.
   (C)   The County Surveyor is further authorized to use funds collected from
the assessment of this fee for purchase of any and all supplies and/or the
maintenance of any and all equipment used in the production of oversized copies
and scans.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 1-24-2017)
§ 32.18 BACKGROUND CHECK SERVICES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby authorized to impose a fee
of up to $5 per eligible request to provide criminal background check services
to the citizens of the county.
   (B)   All monies received by the County Sheriff’s Department shall be
maintained and accounted for in accordance with the rules and regulations of
the State Board of Accounts through the office of the Auditor of the county.
   (C)   Additionally, the County Sheriff’s Department shall have an account
specially designated through the office of Auditor of the county, whereby said
Department can obtain deposited funds through the regular county appropriation
process to pay for expenses associated with the provision of criminal
background check services.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 4-5-2005)
§ 32.19 FINGER PRINTING SERVICES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby authorized to impose a fee
of up to $5 per eligible request to provide fingerprinting services to the
citizens of the county.
   (B)   All monies received by the County Sheriff’s Department shall be
maintained and accounted for in accordance with the rules and regulations of
the State Board of Accounts through the office of the Auditor of the county.
   (C)   Additionally, the County Sheriff’s Department shall have an account
specially designated through the office of Auditor of the county, whereby said
Department can obtain deposited funds through the regular county appropriation
process to pay for expenses associated with the provision of fingerprinting
services.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 4-5-2005)
§ 32.20 REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county authorizes the County Auditor
to collect a fee of $10 for each legal description of each parcel contained in
the deed for which the Auditor makes a real property endorsement.
   (B)   The definition of DEED is stated as follows: A signed and usually
sealed instrument containing some legal transfer, bargain, or contract.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 32.21 SHERIFF’S SALE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Sheriff’s Sale Program is approved and established to provide the
procedure for the Sheriff to contract for those administrative, technical,
clerical, and related services that are reasonable and appropriate for the
Sheriff to effectively prepare for, manage, and implement foreclosure sales.
   (B)   The Sheriff is authorized to negotiate and execute a contract with a
provider to obtain such administrative, technical, clerical, and related
services (the “Sheriff Sale Services”) in order for the Sheriff to conduct the
Sheriff’s Sale Program.
   (C)   The Sheriff Sale Services contract shall provide for the delivery of
such services by a contractor (the “contractor”) in compliance with all
applicable statutory provisions for the conduct of foreclosure sale proceedings
and the Sheriff’s Sale Program. The Sheriff Sale Services contract shall also
provide for the payment of a fee, not to exceed the amount in division (F)
below for each cause number scheduled in the Sheriff’s Sale Program, to the
contractor for such services.
   (D)   The Sheriff is hereby authorized to charge a fee of the amount in
division (F) below per cause number of property in the Sheriff’s Sale Program
(the “foreclosure costs fees”) and to deposit such foreclosure costs fees
collected by or on behalf of the Sheriff in the Sheriff Sale Fund.
   (E)   The foreclosure costs fees shall be payable at the time of filing the
praecipe under I.C. 32-29-7-3(i), which shall be a charge for the Sheriff’s
sale in addition to other statutory costs and fees.
   (F)   The estimated costs herein are estimates of the County Sheriff for the
administration of foreclosure sales as required by I.C. 32-29-7. The fees are
authorized by I.C. 32-29-7-3.
 
Contractual services $180 per cause number
Sheriff’s cost     $120 per cause number
 
(Ord. 2022-19, passed 11-6-2022)
§ 32.22 GUN RANGE FEES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department be and hereby is directed to collect
the sum of $75 per day for use of the county gun range by other law enforcement
agencies and individuals who may request use thereof.
   (B)   All funds received for use of the gun range shall be deposited into
the Firearms Funds of the County Sheriff’s Department and utilized in the
maintenance of the gun range.   
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 32.23 SEX AND VIOLENT OFFENDERS FEES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff is hereby authorized to assess and collect the
annual sex offender registration fee of $50 for all citizens for whom
registration is required by state law.
   (B)   The County Sheriff is hereby authorized to assess and collect the
change of address fee of $5 per change for all citizens for when a change of
address is required by state law.
   (C)   The County Sheriff shall collect, account for, and distribute all
funds taken in by this section to the County Auditor as required by I.C. 36-2-
13-5.6.
   (D)   In the event of non-payment of either of the fees set forth above, the
County Sheriff shall make a report of the same to the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (E)   The Board of County Commissioners may then refer the matter to the
County Attorney to institute collection proceedings through Small Claims Court
or any other manner permitted by state law.
   (F)   All collection actions shall be undertaken in the name of the county.
   (G)   The Board of County Commissioners also reserve the right to assess and
collect reasonable attorneys’ fees and associated costs in pursuit of unpaid
registration fees and change of address fees.
(Council Ord. 2007-04, passed 10-23-2007; Ord. 2024-09, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 32.24 USE OF COURTHOUSE FEES.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners establishes a user fee of $25 per
day or night that the County Courthouse is used beyond or outside of regular
business hours to any individual or group who make proper arrangements for use
of said facility.
   (B)   The Auditor of the county shall establish an account called Courthouse
User Fee Fund in which any and all user fees collected shall be deposited.
   (C)   All user fees collected for use of the Courthouse shall be deposited
into the Courthouse User Fee Fund and shall be used to defray the cost of
janitorial services, maintenance, or security of the building as may be
actually incurred for the after hours use of the Courthouse.
   (D)   The County Board Commissioners reserve the right to amend or change
the amount of the user fee charged and collected as the costs of janitorial and
security services may change from time to time.
   (E)   The County Board of Commissioners also expressly reserve unto itself
the right to waive assessment of the user fee if said Board finds that it is in
the best interests of the public to not assess a user fee for a particular
individual or group using the Courthouse after hours.
(Ord. 98-07, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 32.25 PROPERTY TAX ABATEMENT FILING FEE.
   (A)   The County Council directs the County Treasurer and the County Auditor
to assess and collect the fees called for pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-14 for
all approved tax abatements.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall follow the formula set out at I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-14(c) in determining the fee to be collected from the property owner of an
approved property tax abatement.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receipt of the fee assessed to the property owner by the
County Treasurer and County Auditor, said fee shall be distributed as follows:
 
County Economic Growth Council           50%
County Economic Redevelopment Commission 50%
 
      (2)   Said receiving entities shall hold, manage, and utilize said funds
received as prescribed by state law.
(Council Res. 2019-10, passed 12-23-2019)
§ 32.26 FORENSICS SERVICES CENTER FEES.
   (A)   Out of county.
 
After-hours entry fee                                                 $25
Facility fee, dedicated user                                          $200
Cold storage, each additional day                                     $250
Facility fee, casual user                                             $250
Cold storage initial fee, assessed at end of day three, open day four $450
Notes to Table:
Any ancillary costs will be added to the total amount due regarding cold
storage fees.
 
   (B)   Procurement.
 
Coordinator fee                   $25
Late entry fee                    $25
One team cornea recovery fee      $250
One team tissue/bone recovery fee $350
Two team/company facility fee     $450
Notes to Table:
Any ancillary costs will be added to the total amount due.
 
   (C)   Pay schedule.
 
Clean-up                                          $50
Coordinator                                       $25
Facilitator                                       $50
Late entry                                        $25
Staff member for single team cornea recovery      $100
Staff member for single team tissue/bone recovery $200
Staff member for two team/company procurement     $250
 
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 32.27 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Fee schedule. The following fee schedule is established and approved
for the services and records provided by the Health Department:
Environmental
Annual renewal late fee, per establishment, $5
each additional day
Annual renewal late fee, per establishment, $50
first day
Dye test                                    $50
Food establishment permit, after July 1,
annual, new owner
   1-6 employees                         $60
   7-13 employees                        $80
   14-20 employees                       $100
   21+ employees                         $120
Food establishment permit, annual
   1-6 employees                         $100
   7-13 employees                        $130
   14-20 employees                       $160
   21+ employees                         $190
Food permit, temporary, first day           $25
Food permit, temporary, late fee (paid <    $100
three days before event)
Food permit, temporary, each additional,    $10
consecutive day
Homeowner self install exam                 $100
Individual tattoo/body piercing artist      $50
license fee, annual
Installer license                           $40
Lead case management                        $500
Mobile unit permit, annual                  $100
Penalty for failure to obtain permit (for   $100
example, change of owner)
Plan review                                 $100
Pool permit fee per location, annual        $200
Pool permit fee per location, seasonal      $100
Replace/amend permit or license             $10
Septic permit, additional review or system  $25
required
Septic permit (commercial, mound,           $100
engineered systems)
Septic permit (gravity, flood dose, sand    $75
lined residential permits)
Seasonal permit (permanent establishment    $75
operating less than six months)
Tattoo/body piercing establishment permit,  $500
annual
Health Department Miscellaneous
Certified document fee                      $10
Fax fee                                     $2
Notary fee                                  $2
Vaccine
ActHIB                                      $12.50
Boostrix                                    $39.18
Comirnaty PFS                               $128
Comirnaty SDV                               $115
Engerix, adult                              $48.36
Engerix, pediatric                          $20.49
Fluad Quadrivalent                          $60
Flublok                                     $60
Fluzone High Dose PFS                       $60
Fluzone Quadrivalent Standard PFS           $19.50
Gardasil 9                                  $281.56
Havrix, adult                               $72.64
Havrix, pediatric                           $29.67
Heplisav B                                  $125.67
Infanrix                                    $22.86
IPOL                                        $26.51
Kinrix                                      $48.96
MenQuadfi                                   $114.43
MMR II                                      $88.85
Pediarix                                    $66.76
Pneumovax23                                 $114.63
Prevnar 20                                  $248.24
ProQuad                                     $253.86
RotaTeq                                     $86.30
Shingrix                                    $195.76
Trumenba                                    $155.72
Twinrix                                     $105.73
Varivax                                     $167.21
Vaxelis                                     $104.94
Service: Miscellaneous, Clinic
Admin fee                                   $15
Document completion fee                     $25
Immunization record                         $2
Notarized immunization record               $5
TB test                                     $10
Vital Records Services
Affidavit of legitimation (PAUM)            $25
Birth certificate per copy                  $10
Coroner’s Education Fund fee              Set by state code (I.C. 4-23-6.5-8)
Correction affidavit (CA)                   $20
Death certificate per copy, includes CEF    $15
fee
Genealogy information sheet (events over 75 $5
years)
Genealogy search, per name                  $5
Paternity affidavit (PA)                    $25
 
   (B)   Nursing health services. These fees are stated in terms of “current
fees” and this fee may change without notice due to the cost of the vaccines,
medical supplies, or protective material required to provide the services
stated. When the fees change (increase or decrease) the supporting documents
will be kept on file to justify the change in the fee.
   (C)   Maximum fee schedule. The fees set forth in this section are maximum
fees. Specific fees charged shall be determined by and limited in accordance
with any applicable state and federal laws, rules, and regulations pertaining
thereto.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION (AHA) BASIC LIFE SUPPORT (BLS). AHA BLS
Provider is a course intended to educate health professionals on the
recognition and reaction to medical events necessitating the use of
cardiopulmonary resuscitation, use of an automated external defibrillator, and
choking first aid.
      STOP THE BLEED (STB). A joint national campaign and training initiative
by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, FEMA, and the Uniformed
Services University of Health Sciences. The goal of this training is to reduce
preventable death by bleeding before emergency medical services arrive.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 7-18-2023; Ord. 2024-05, passed 8-13-2024)
**** ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FEE ****
§ 32.40 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Under the authority of and subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-8, an
emergency telephone system fee is established for the funding of the
installation and operation of the enhanced emergency telephone system in the
county.
   (B)   The fee shall be collected from the telephone service users of the
county and administered in accordance with the state code, as outlined at I.C.
36-8, and the following terms set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 8-23-1994)
§ 32.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM. A telephone system that uses the three-
digit “911” number to send automatic number identification and automatic
location identification for reporting police, fire, medical, or other emergency
situations.
   EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY.
      (1)   The access from a particular service users premises to a telephone
system, which shall include:
         (a)   An access line;
         (b)   A private branch exchange (PBX) trunk;
         (c)   A centrex line trunk equivalent, all of which are provided by
the service supplier; and
         (d)   A mobile telephone system access trunk, whether the trunk is
provided by a telephone company or a radio common carrier.
      (2)   The term does not include:
         (a)    A service supplier owned and operated telephone pay station
line;
         (b)   A wide area telecommunication service [MISSING TEXT]
   SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person who provides exchange telephone service to a
service user.
   SERVICE USER. A person to whom exchange telephone service is provided.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 8-23-1994)
§ 32.42 MONTHLY FEE.
   A monthly fee of $1.40 per month per telephone access line or other exchange
access facility shall be collected by the service supplier for each month or
part of a month an exchange access facility is in service as a part of its
normal billing process.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 8-23-1994)
§ 32.43 SERVICE SUPPLIER FEE.
   Each service supplier that collects the enhanced emergency telephone system
fee on behalf of the county shall be entitled to a 3% administrative fee as
compensation for collecting said monthly fee.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 8-23-1994)
§ 32.44 REMITTAL FEE.
   Each service supplier shall remit all monthly fees collected, except for the
3% administrative fee, to the Treasurer of the county within ten days of the
last day of each month. At the same time the fees are remitted, the service
supplier shall provide a fee collection report to the Auditor of the county on
a form approved by the Auditor.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 8-23-1994)
§ 32.45 DELINQUENT FEE REPORT.
   (A)   During January of each year, each service supplier that collects the
enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the county shall provide a
delinquent fee report to the County Treasurer.
   (B)   The report shall list the name, address, and amount due from each
service user who is two or more months delinquent in paying the fee.
   (C)   The service supplier shall also indicate the amount of delinquent fees
for which each person included on the list is liable.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 8-23-1994)
§ 32.46 COMMENCEMENT OF FEE COLLECTION.
   Each service supplier shall commence collection of the enhanced emergency
telephone system fee as soon as it is administratively practicable after the
effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 8-23-1994)
§ 32.47 STATE CODE CONTROLLING.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be applied, construed, and administered in
accordance with I.C. 36-8-16 et seq., and any amendment thereto.
   (B)   In the event that I.C. 36-8-16 et seq. shall be amended by the state
in such a manner as to become inconsistent, or cause a conflict with the
provisions of this subchapter, then, and in that event, this subchapter shall
be amended to include and adopt those provisions of the state code amending
I.C. 36-8-16 et seq., as if the same were fully set forth and incorporated
herein.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 8-23-1994)
**** INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS ****
§ 32.60 PURPOSE.
   The county hereby adopts the Uniform Internal Control Standards for the
State Political Subdivision developed by the State Board of Accounts pursuant
to I.C. 5-11-1-21 and I.C. 5-11-1-27 as the minimum internal control standards
for the county. This subchapter shall also include all amendments or
modifications that may be adopted or implemented in the future.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 32.61 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27(1), any public official, department head, or
employee with actual knowledge or reasonable cause to believe that there has
been a misappropriation of public funds or public property is to immediately
send written notice of the misappropriation to the State Board of Accounts and
the Prosecuting Attorney, regardless of the amount or value.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 32.62 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   The materiality threshold, at which point the county shall report incidents
of material variances, losses, shortages, to the State Board of Accounts is:
   (A)   A one-time cash loss of at least $500;
   (B)   A recurring cash loss of at least $50 average per month;
   (C)   A value of $500 for a one-time loss of assets; or
   (D)   A creation of additional liabilities of at least $1,000 average per
month.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 32.63 ITEMS NOT REPORTED.
   All items not reported to the State Board of Accounts shall be resolved at
the Board of Commissioners’ level with appropriate documentation retained by
the County Auditor.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 32.64 MATERIALITY.
   When an irregular variance, loss, shortage, or theft is determined material
pursuant to the county’s policy on materiality, the Auditor and/or the
Treasurer shall report the incident to the State Board of Accounts. On the
State Board of Accounts’ website there is a notification link, which allows
public officials to report via e-mail material irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts. Telephone and in-person reporting is also acceptable.
Reports will be followed up with a return e-mail or call to gather additional
information as necessary. All reports of irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts are maintained by the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 32.65 DECLARATION.
   Below is the County Ethics Policy/Internal Control/Materiality Declaration,
as adopted and approved by the County Commissioners.
LAWRENCE COUNTY ETHICS POLICY/INTERNAL
CONTROLS/MATERIALITY DECLARATION
It is the policy of Lawrence County (“County”) that its employees uphold the
highest standards of ethical, professional behavior. To that end, these employees
shall dedicate themselves to carrying out the mission of the County and shall:
1.  Hold paramount the safety, health, and welfare of the public in the performance
    of professional duties.
2.  Act in such a manner as to uphold and enhance personal and professional honor,
    integrity, and the dignity of the profession.
    Treat with respect and consideration all persons, regardless of race, religion,
3.  gender, sexual orientation, maternity, marital or family status, disability,
    age, or national origin.
4.  Engage in carrying out the County’s mission in a professional manner.
5.  Collaborate with and support other professionals in carrying out the County’s
    mission.
6.  Build professional reputations on the merit of services and refrain from
    competing unfairly with others.
7.  Recognize that the chief function of the County at all times is to serve the
    best interests of its citizens.
    Accept as a personal duty the responsibility to keep up to date on emerging
8.  issues and to conduct themselves with professional competence, fairness,
    impartiality, efficiency, and effectiveness.
    Respect the structure and responsibilities of all elected officials; provide
9.  them with facts and advice as a basis for their making policy decisions, and
    uphold and implement policies or ordinances adopted by the Commissioners or
    County Council.
    Keep the citizens/taxpayers of the County informed about issues affecting them,
10. without offering editorial comments concerning local government officials while
    serving in the capacity of County employee. Notwithstanding every individual’s
    right of expression as a private citizen.
11. Conduct organizational and operational duties with positive leadership
    exemplified by open communication, creativity, dedication, and compassion.
12. Exercise whatever discretionary authority they have under the law to carry out
    the mission of the County.
13. Serve with respect, concern, courtesy, and responsiveness in carrying out the
    County’s mission.
    Demonstrate the highest standards of personal integrity, truthfulness, honesty,
14. and fortitude in all activities in order to inspire confidence and trust in
    such activities.
15. Avoid any interest or activity that is in conflict with the conduct of their
    official duties.
16. Respect and protect privileged information to which they have access in the
    course of their official duties.
17. Strive for personal and professional excellence and encourage the professional
    developments of others.
 
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates the terms and conditions of §
32.16 by failing to pay or violating §
32.16(E) shall be guilty of an infraction and may be fined up to $2,500.
Additionally, the person who uses information in a manner contrary to §
32.16(E) may be prohibited from obtaining further information or data through
enhanced access services.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 5-5-2014)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION
Section
   
33.01   Adjusted gross income tax
   
33.02   Excise surtax, wheel tax
   
33.03   Innkeeper’s tax
§ 33.01 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The county adjusted gross income tax, as provided in the County
Adjusted Gross Income Tax Law, is hereby adopted for and on behalf of the
county at the county rate of 1% for resident county taxpayers and one-fourth of
1% for all other county taxpayers in that county. (Bill 1144, Passed June 1,
1973)
(Prior Code, § 8-21-1)
   (B)   (1)   The county (“county”) hereby imposes an additional rate of the
county adjusted gross income tax at the rate of 50% in accordance with state
law to raise income tax revenue to provide property tax relief to political
subdivisions in the county.
      (2)   Property tax relief shall take the form of:
         (a)   Fifty percent for local property tax replacement credits at a
uniform rate to all taxpayers in the county. The local property tax replacement
credits shall be treated for all purposes as property tax levies.
[MISSING TEXT]
         (e)   The County Council acknowledges that some taxpayers in the
county that do not pay the property tax relief rate will receive a property tax
replacement credit that is funded with tax revenue from the property tax relief
rate.
   (C)   (1)   The county hereby imposes an additional rate of the county
adjusted gross income tax at rate of 0.25%, in accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-
25, to provide funding for public safety in the county (the “public safety
rate”).
      (2)   (a)   The County Auditor shall distribute income tax revenues
attributable to the public safety rate to the county and to each municipality
in the county.
         (b)   The County Auditor shall distribute the portion of the certified
distribution that is attributable to the public safety rate to the county and
to each municipality in the county in an amount equal to the result of the
portion of the certified distribution that is attributable to the public safety
rate, multiplied by a fraction equal to:
            1.   The attributed allocation amount (as defined in I.C. 6-3.5-
1.1-15) of the county or municipality for the calendar year; and
            2.   Then divided by the sum of the attributed allocation amounts
of the county and each municipality in the county for the calendar year.
[MISSING TEXT]
(Council Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-28-2009; Council Ord. 2009-04, passed 7-28-
2009)
§ 33.02 EXCISE SURTAX, WHEEL TAX.
   (A)   The county hereby adopts and imposes the motor vehicle excise surtax,
which shall apply to the following vehicles:
      (1)   Passenger vehicles;
      (2)   Motorcycles;
      (3)   Trucks with a declared gross weight that does not exceed 11,000
pounds; and
      (4)   Motor driven cycles.
   (B)   The motor vehicle surtax to be imposed shall be at the rate of $25 per
vehicle described in division (A) above.
   (C)   The county further adopts and imposes the county wheel tax, which
shall apply to the following vehicles:
      (1)   Buses;
      (2)   Recreational vehicles;
      (3)   Semi-trailers;
      (4)   Tractors;
      (5)   Trailers; and
      (6)   Trucks.
   (D)   The following vehicles are exempt from the wheel tax established by
this section:
      (1)   Vehicles owned by the state;
      (2)   Vehicles owned by a state agency of the state;
      (3)   Vehicles owned by a political subdivision of the state;
      (4)   Vehicles subject to the motor vehicle excise surtax imposed by this
section; and
      (5)   Buses owned and operated by a religious or non-profit youth
organization and used to haul persons to religious services or for the benefit
of their members.
   (E)   The county wheel tax to be imposed shall be at the following rates:
      (1)   For buses: $25 per bus;
      (2)   For recreational vehicles: $25 per vehicle;
      (3)   For semi-trailers: $25 per semi-trailer;
      (4)   For tractors: $25 per tractor;
      (5)   For trailers: $5 per trailer; and
      (6)   For trucks: $25 per truck.
   (F)   The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall collect the county motor
vehicle excise surtax and the county wheel tax by and through its established
procedures on behalf of the county. The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall be
entitled to assess a service fee for assisting the county in collection of
these taxes.
   (G)   The County Council shall review the rates hereby established for the
County Motor Vehicle Excise Surtax and the County Wheel Tax within five years
from the date of passage.
(Council Ord. 2014-09, passed 11-25-2014)
§ 33.03 INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   The County Council now fixes the County Innkeeper’s Tax at the rate of 5% on
the gross retail income derived from lodging income in the county as allowed
for by I.C. 6-9-18-3(c).
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 11-23-2004)
CHAPTER 34: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   County Sheriff
   
34.02   County Police Reserve
   
34.03   Pre-basic law enforcement course fee
   
34.04   Overtime pay, compensation; Sheriff’s Department
**** POLICE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 34.01 COUNTY SHERIFF.
   (A)   (1)   A SHERIFF is an independently elected public officer and is made
responsible, by common and statutory law, as the keeper of the peace within his
or her jurisdiction. It is an office provided for by the constitution.
      (2)   The Sheriff is elected every four years in the general elections,
as began in 1950, and every four years thereafter, by amendment to the Indiana
State Constitution (Article 6, Section 11, added November 2, 1948). The
Constitution further provides that no person shall be eligible to be Sheriff
for more than eight out of 12 years.
      (3)   I.C. 36-2-13-5 set further certain powers and duties for County
Sheriffs. The statute states:
“(aThe Sheriff shall:
         Arrest, without process, persons who commit an offense within his or
    (1) her view, take them before a court of the county having jurisdiction,
         and detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been
         investigated;
    (2) Suppress breaches of the peace, calling the power of the county to his
         or her aid, if necessary;
    (3) Pursue and jail felons;
    (4) Execute all process directed to him or her by legal authority;
    (5) Serve all process directed to him or her from a court or the County
         Executive;
    (6) Attend and preserve order in all courts of the county;
         Take photographs, fingerprints, and other identification data as he or
    (7) she shall prescribe of persons taken into custody for felonies or
         misdemeanors.
(b)  A person who:
    1.  Refuses to be photographed;
    2.  Refuses to be fingerprinted;
    3.  Withholds information; or
    4.  Gives false information.
As prescribed in subsection (a)(8), commits a Class C misdemeanor. (I.C. 17-3-
5-2, 17-3-5-3, recodified as I.C. 36-2-13-5 by Acts 1980, P.L. 212, Section 1;
P.L. 344-1983, Section 1.)”
 
(Prior Code, § 2-10-1)
   (B)   The Sheriff is required to attend meetings of the County Commissioners
or County Council only if requested to do so by the Commissioners or Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-2)
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners has no power over the action of the
Sheriff, nor does it seek to control same. The Sheriff is not required to come
to the Commissioners’ meetings at this time.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-4)
§ 34.02 COUNTY POLICE RESERVE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a County Police Reserve which shall
consist of not more than 12 Reserve Police officers and which shall be
designated by the name “Lawrence County Sheriff’s Reserve” or the “County
Sheriff’s Reserve.”
   (B)   In accordance with I.C. 36-8-3-20 which provides for the establishment
of a Police Reserve, that such members of the County Sheriff’s Reserve shall be
appointed by the Sheriff of the county subject to approval by the Sheriff’s
Merit Board, up to the maximum number provided herein which the said Sheriff
deems necessary to supplement the effective functioning of the Sheriff’s
regular police force; that such police reserves shall not be members of the
Sheriff’s regular police force but shall have all of the same police powers of
such regular members except as limited by any rule or rules of the County
Sheriff’s Department; and, that said police reserves may not participate in any
pension program provided for regular members of the County Sheriff’s
Department.
   (C)   The members of said County Sheriff’s Reserve shall receive no salary
or wages for their services; nor will the county be responsible for their
services; nor will the county be responsible to furnish uniforms to members of
the said police reserve, although the Board of Commissioners of the county do
reserve the right to provide for furnishing uniforms should it deem it
necessary and appropriate in the future.
   (D)   All members of the County Sheriff’s Reserve shall be protected by life
and also liability insurance at the expense of each member of said Police
Reserves and not at the expense of the county; although the Board of
Commissioners of the county does reserve the right to provide life and
liability coverage for each member of the said Police Reserve at any time the
Board should determine such action to be necessary and appropriate, including,
but not limited to, those occasions when the said Board would find it more
economical and/or expeditious to purchase additional insurance coverage under
an existing county insurance plan for later reimbursement by members of the
said Police Reserve of such expenses to the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-17-2) (Ord. 1978-1, passed 2-21-1978)
§ 34.03 PRE-BASIC LAW ENFORCEMENT COURSE FEE.
   (A)   The County Police Department shall be required to assess and collect a
fee of $40 per officer for each officer enrolling in and participating in the
pre-basic law enforcement course sponsored and presented by said Department.
   (B)   All fees collected by the County Police Department by means of this
section shall be deposited into the County Police Department Training Fund and
shall be used solely to defray the costs and expenses incurred in conducting
the pre-basic law enforcement course.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 34.04 OVERTIME PAY, COMPENSATION; SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Included under this section are all Deputy Sheriffs and the County
Jailer, and all assistant matrons. While the Jailer was not included in the
list of Deputy Sheriffs for which the FOP (Springmill Lodge #172) was
negotiating, nevertheless the Commissioners determine that it would be in the
best interest of continuity if they were bound by the same provisions as any
Deputy Sheriff. Not covered by this section is the Sheriff, his or her first
Deputy, and the matron (head matron) who is excluded as a personal staff
member.
   (B)   Not regulated or covered by this section are the existing county
policies on vacation, holidays, sick pay, severance pay, and fringe benefits.
   (C)   Not regulated or covered by this section are the existing county
policies on vacation, holidays, sick pay, severance pay, and fringe benefits.
   (D)   To be eligible for compensation such employee must be on the job
physically, and ready and able for work to be assigned to such employee;
further, such employee must actually work such period claimed.
   (E)   In order that the county be advised of its obligations to pay any such
overtime or grant compensatory time, the time card for such employee, so signed
by such employee and approved in writing by his or her authorized supervisor,
must be physically delivered to the County Auditor for payment in advance. The
employee must verify that same is accurate.
   (F)   (1)   A 28-day period is hereby established for all persons covered
hereunder as a work cycle and such persons, hereinafter referred to as
“employee,” shall work for a maximum of 171 hours in such 28-day calendar
period. After having worked 160 hours in said 28-day period, then for each hour
between 160 hours and 171 hours, such employee shall be entitled to the same
number of hours off from work on a basis of one-for-one without any additional
pay.
      (2)   As referred to in division (F)(2) above, compensatory time will be
earned at a rate of one and one-half hours for each one hours actually worked
over 171 hours in the 28-day cycle so established. The employee may accumulate
up to 480 hours of compensatory time off, and the employee will further receive
monetary overtime compensation for overtime hours actually worked, which would
cause such employee’s accumulation to exceed 480 hours.
      (3)   Overtime shall be paid for all hours worked over 171 in such 28-day
work cycle so established for the purpose of calculating overtime. The amount
off overtime pay will be one and one-half times the employee’s regular hourly
rate for all hours worked over 171 in any 28-day cycle so established by the
County Commissioners.
      (4)   (a)   All pay for overtime and/or grants of compensatory time
which, computed on a weekly basis, shall nevertheless be paid every two weeks
in the same manner as the employee’s regular compensation is paid. The overtime
compensation shall be based upon the regular pay rate at the time such hours
were worked.
         (b)   However, if an employee should work a certain number of hours at
one job with one pay rate, and additional hours at another job with a different
pay rate so as to justify overtime pay, then such overtime pay rate shall be
paid by paying the straight time hourly rate for the job such employee is
actually performing during such overtime hours, plus an additional overtime
premium equal to one-half of such employee’s weighted average hourly rate for
the week. The weighted average hourly rate will equal the total straight time
pay for the week, divided by the total number of hours worked as provided by
law.
      (5)   The employee may use earned compensatory time off with the approval
of such employee’s supervisor authorized to grant such approval. If it is not
possible to approve the particular compensatory time off requested by such
employee, time off will be granted within a reasonable period, normally within
30 days, unless the requested time off would unduly disrupt operations. The
employee will receive compensation based upon the regular pay rate in effect
when the compensatory time off is actually taken.
   (G)   The employer may elect to substitute monetary overtime for pay earned
compensatory time off, either at the time overtime is actually worked or in any
later period. Monetary overtime compensation will be based upon the employee’s
regular pay rate at the time of payment.
   (H)   The county may also elect to apply earned compensatory time off to
hours the employee may have missed due to personal absence, short workweeks,
layoffs, or leave of absence, including medical leaves if not covered by paid
sick days, or authorized by a physician’s medical report. In periods of slack
work, it may be necessary to schedule time off, to which earned compensatory
time off will be applied.
   (I)   Upon forms provided by the County Auditor’s office, all employees
shall keep a regular, accurate record of their hours worked for each workday,
and the total hours worked by such employee for each and all workweeks. This
record shall include the time which said employee began work for that workday,
the time which employment ended for that workday, and any hours (or parts
thereof) of overtime for that day. Such time sheet shall be signed by the
employee who shall verify the correctness of its contents. Such time sheet
shall further be approved, in writing, by the person designated and authorized
by employee’s department head to make any such approval and processed by such
office which shall tabulate and verify the total hours to the Auditor, together
with any overtime pay and/or compensatory time to which such employee may be
entitled to. Such overtime pay shall be paid within 30 days of the submission
of the same to the County Auditor.
   (J)   In addition thereto, the office employing such employee shall keep an
accurate record of all vacation days, sick days, and personal leave days of
each employee upon forms prescribed by the office of the County Auditor.
    (K)   All records hereunder shall be maintained for a minimum of three
years.
   (L)   No overtime shall be paid and/or compensatory time allowed for any
hours not shown upon the time sheets received by the office of the County
Auditor and it shall be the responsibility of the office employing any
particular employee to see that the same are turned in timely to the Auditor.
It is further the responsibility of each employee to make an accurate record of
the information required herein and the county shall be entitled to rely upon
any time sheet so signed by such employee as being an accurate representation
of such work record.
   (M)   This section shall be in effect on April 15, 1986, beginning at 12:01
a.m. and shall continue until further action by the Board of Commissioners.
   (N)   It is recognized that the law regarding overtime under the Fair Labor
Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., is in a state of flux with the
Board of Commissioners having only rough drafts of the law upon which to base
this section. That it may become necessary to change this section from time to
time to comply with provisions of the law not yet known to the Board of
Commissioners.
   (O)   This section shall likewise apply to any employees employed after this
date.
   (P)   Any employee who may have another job and which other job is subject
to the Fair Labor Standards Act must report the same to the Auditor in writing
and must notify such employee’s immediate supervisor of all hours worked on
said other job in order that the overtime requirements of the Fair Labor
Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., may be met. In such case,
overtime shall be computed as provided by the Fair Labor Standards Act.
(Prior Code, § 8-36-2) (Ord. 1986-, passed 4-15-1986)
CHAPTER 35: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Public records access exemptions
   
35.02   County-owned vehicles
   
35.03   Conflict of interest
Handicap Compliance
   
35.15   Facilities for handicapped must be furnished
   
35.16   Grievance procedure
   
35.17   Self-evaluation
Bulk Form Copies
   
35.30   Definitions
   
35.31   Manner, form of production
   
35.32   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies
   
35.33   Fees charged for bulk form copies
   
35.34   Bulk user contract termination
   
35.35   Resale of bulk form copies
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 35.01 PUBLIC RECORDS ACCESS EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county exempts the following public
records from disclosure, unless access to the records is specifically required
by state or federal statute, or is ordered by a court under the rules of
discovery:
      (1)   Those declared confidential by state statute;
      (2)   Those declared confidential by rules adopted by a public agency
under specific authority to classify public records as confidential granted to
the public agency by statute;
      (3)   Those required to be kept confidential by federal law;
      (4)   Records containing trade secrets, or confidential financial
information;
      (5)   Investigatory records of law enforcement agencies;
      (6)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used in
administering a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the examination is given or if it is to be given again;
      (7)   Scores of tests or license examinations, if the person is
identified by name and has not consented to the release of their scores;
      (8)   Records that contain intra-agency or inter-agency advisory or
deliberative material that are expressions of opinion or are of a speculative
nature, and that are communicated for the purpose of decision making;
      (9)   Diaries, journals, or other personal notes serving as the
functional equivalent of a diary or journal;
      (10)   Personal files of public employees, except for:
         (a)   The name, compensation, application for employment or
appointment, job title, business address, business telephone number, job
description, education and training background, previous work experience, or
dates of first and last employment of present or former officers or employees
of the agency;
         (b)   Information relating to the status of any formal charges against
the employee; and
         (c)   Information concerning disciplinary actions in which final
action has been taken and which resulted in the employee being disciplined or
discharged; provided, however, all personnel file information shall be made
available to the affected employee whose file it is, or to any representative
of such employee as such employee may direct by a written statement that is
executed by such employee and which signature is duly notarized before a notary
public.
      (11)   Administrative or technical information that would jeopardize a
recordkeeping or security system;
      (12)   Computer programs, computer codes, computer filing systems, and
other software that are now owned by the public agency or entrusted to it, or
in the future may be owned by such public agency or entrusted to it;
      (13)   Records specifically prepared for discussion or developed during
discussion in an executive session under I.C. 5-14-3-4;
      (14)   The identity of a donor of a gift made to a public agency, if the
donor requires non-disclosure of their identity as a condition of making the
gift;
      (15)   Any other record which current or future legislation allows a
public agency to exempt. Further action by the county is unnecessary; and
      (16)   The work product of an attorney appointed by the county to
represent the county, or an individual at the request of the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all records of the County Sheriff and the
Prosecuting Attorney of the 81st Judicial Circuit, except if the Sheriff may be
required to provide information pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-5 as amended; and
   (C)   The form for request of access to public records which the Auditor
shall supply any such person so seeking such information shall be as follows:
FORM FOR REQUEST OF ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS
The undersigned requests the right to inspect and copy the records of the
following public agency: (Here list name of public agency and identify the
records to the extent possible so as to aid in the identification of the records
by the Records Access Officer):
(If this space is not sufficient, check this box and continue to the back side of
this form. You must sign both sides of the form if you are using both sides for
your request.)
Except as provided for in I.C. 5-14-3-4.
 1. The undersigned requests to:
   a. O Inspect the above,
   b. O Copy the above, or
   c. O Both
(Please select an option above.)
     This request shall be made to the Records Access Officer in writing and they
     shall have twenty-four (24) hours in which to respond, provided, however,
     that whenever the request is received on a Friday or on a day preceding a
 2. legal holiday, such Records Access Officer shall have until the same hour on
     the next business day in which to release, copy, or refuse disclosure. The
     County Attorney shall serve as Records Access Officer, but if they are not
     available, then the Auditor shall so serve as such officer.
 3. The fees for copying are as follows:
   a. Pages are not larger than 8.5”x11” - ten cents ($0.10) per page;
   b. Pages are larger than 8.5”x11” and up to 9”x14”, the cost will be
        determined by the total number of sheets needed.
   c. Any other record - the actual cost of copying.
           All of the above listed fees shall be paid to such Records Access
     i. Officer upon their approval of such request and prior to any such
           copies being made.
     This request is subject to the provisions of §
 4. 35.01 of the Lawrence County Code. A copy of the County Code is on file with
     and may be inspected at the Lawrence County Auditor’s office during normal
     working hours when the office is otherwise open for business.
Dated: __________, 20__;
           Signature
           Printed Name
           Street Address
           City, State, and Zip Code
           Telephone Number
The above request was brought to me for consideration on (Month/Day):
____________________, 20____, at the hour of _____________M.
      
       Records Access Officer
 
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
Cross-reference:
   Bulk copies, §§
35.30 through
35.35
§ 35.02 COUNTY-OWNED VEHICLES.
   (A)   All county employees who are assigned county-owned motor vehicles for
use in the performance of their job related duties shall maintain a log or
other records evidencing each day that said employee utilizes said vehicle for
purposes of commuting from home to work or from work to home.
   (B)   Only such employees who are required to use a county-owned motor
vehicle in the performance of their duties or are required to be on call after
regular business hours should be given the use of a county-owned motor vehicle.
   (C)   Each employee having use of a county-owned motor vehicle shall be
assessed $1.50 for each one-way commute that said employee makes in said
county-owned motor vehicle. If a county employee utilizes a county-owned motor
vehicle to go to work and to return home from work, then for each such day,
said employee will be assessed a total sum of $3 per day.
   (D)   (1)   On a monthly basis, each employee having access of a county-
owned motor vehicle shall be required to turn a log or record of the use of
said motor vehicle to his or her supervisor.
      (2)   Said supervisor shall deliver the records to the office of County
Auditor for purposes of tracking such use.
   (E)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby directs that for each such
county employee using a county-owned motor vehicle, said employee shall not use
said vehicle for personal purposes other than for commuting or de minimis
personal use.
(Res. 2001-11, passed 7-31-2001)
§ 35.03 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No public official or county employee shall accept a gratuity of any
amount greater than $200 from a vendor conducting business with the county. A
gratuity of any amount $200 or less for a single event is considered not
substantial. Gratuities include invitations to events where business is often
conducted and items customarily conveyed therein, including, but not limited
to, dinners, conferences, and golf outings at which county officials and
employees may be the guests of vendors that do business with the county.
   (B)   This conflict of interest policy establishes a rule in addition to
those imposed by the state and federal governments regarding financial
incentives for public servants and elected officials. Any conflict with state
or federal laws or regulations of this policy are to be interpreted in favor of
the state or federal regulation setting precedent.
(Res. 2017-03, passed 2-21-2017)
**** HANDICAP COMPLIANCE ****
§ 35.15 FACILITIES FOR HANDICAPPED MUST BE FURNISHED.
   (A)   The handicap non-discrimination administrative requirements for
facilities within the county include:
      (1)   Publication of notice stating the Handicapped Non-Discrimination
Policy;
      (2)   Designation of a responsible employee or office;
      (3)   Adoption of a grievance procedure;
      (4)   Completion of a self-evaluation plan; and
      (5)   Preparation of the preparation plan.
   (B)   The public notice of the revenue sharing handicapped regulations is as
follows:
PUBLIC NOTICE - REVENUE SHARING HANDICAPPED
REGULATIONS
   This notice is published pursuant to the provisions of C.F.R. Title 45 of
the Revenue Sharing Regulations as published in the Federal Register on October
17, 1983. Section 51.55 prohibits discrimination against qualified individuals
because of their handicapped status.
   THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE COUNTY OF LAWRENCE, Lawrence County,
Bedford, Indiana, does hereby advise the public, employees, and job applicants
that it does not discriminate on the basis of handicapped status in admission
or access to, or treatment or employment in, its programs and activities.
   Further, the Board of Commissioners of the County of Lawrence has designated
the Office of the Auditor of Lawrence County as the contact to coordinate
efforts to comply with this effort. Inquiries should be directed to:
 Auditor’s Office
 Courthouse
 Bedford, Indiana 47421
 Phone No. (812) 275-3111
 Office Hours: 8:30 A.M. thru 4:30 P.M.
  Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays
 Closed: Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays
 
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 35.16 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   This procedure is established to meet the requirements of the Revenue
Sharing Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq. It should be used by any individual
who wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of handicap
in employment practices and policies or the provision of programs, services,
and benefits by the county.
   (B)   The grievance should be in writing and contain as much information as
possible about the alleged discrimination (such as supply the name, address,
phone number, location, and description of the problem, and the like). Other
arrangements for submission of a grievance, such as a personal interview or
tape recording, will be made available for the visually impaired or those with
motor impairments. It should be submitted by the person making such grievance,
or his or her designee within 30 calendar days of the alleged violation to the
County Auditor, Lawrence County, Bedford, Indiana 47421, telephone number
(812)-275-3111. Office hours are 8:30 a.m. through 4:30 p.m., Monday through
Friday (closed Saturday and Sunday, and holidays).
   (C)   (1)   Within 15 working days after the receipt of the complaint, the
Auditor, as Program Coordinator, will respond in writing, or by a method
understood to the complainant, to the complainant and/or his or her designee.
      (2)   The response will offer a resolution or explain the position of the
county with respect to the complaint.
   (D)   If the response by the Auditor does not satisfactorily resolve the
issue, the complainant and/or his or her designee may request a hearing, to be
held within 15 working days of receipt of the response, before the Board of
Commissioners of the county, which is the Handicapped Coordinating Committee,
for resolution (Courthouse, Bedford, Indiana, telephone number (812)-275-3111.
Office hours are 8:30 a.m. through 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday [closed
Saturday and Sunday, and holidays]).
   (E)   (1)   Within 30 calendar days of the hearing, the final resolution in
writing (or by a method understood to the complainant) shall be delivered to
the complainant and/or his or her designee by the Board of Commissioners of the
county.
      (2)   (a)   Service shall be deemed to have been made if mailed to the
address shown on the written grievance of such person by certified mail, return
receipt requested (unless the county has received written notice of a change of
address of such person).
         (b)   Any and all persons making such complaints to the county must
keep the Board of Commissioners informed or any and all address changes.
   (F)   All complaints received by the Auditor and all responses from the
Auditor or the Board of Commissioners shall be kept in the files of the county
for a minimum of three years, and these documents may be requested by the
office of Revenue Sharing should an investigation into alleged discrimination
on the basis of handicapped status be initiated.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 35.17 SELF-EVALUATION.
   The Board of Commissioners shall cause a self-evaluation to be made and
provided according to law.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
**** BULK FORM COPIES ****
§ 35.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK FORM COPY. An aggregation of:
      (1)   Copies of all recorded documents received by the County Recorder
for recording in a calendar day, week, month, or year;
      (2)   The indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded
documents received by the County Recorder for recording in a calendar day,
week, month, or year; or
      (3)   Both divisions (1) and (2) above.
   BULK USER. An individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited liability
company, or an unincorporated association that receives bulk form copies under
a contract with a County Recorder.
   COPY. A reproduction including an image of a recorded document or indices
created by:
      (1)   Duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape, drum, or
any other medium of electronic data storage; or
      (2)   Reproducing on microfilm.
   INDICES. All of the indexing information used by the County Recorder for
finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
   RECORDED DOCUMENT. A writing, a paper, a document, a plat, a map, a survey,
or anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the public
records maintained by the County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 35.31 MANNER, FORM OF PRODUCTION.
   It is hereby established that the County Recorder shall provide bulk form
copies to a bulk user only by electronically transmitting the copies using an
electronic transfer process.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 35.32 PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTING BULK FORM COPIES.
   (A)   A bulk user must submit a written request to the County Recorder that
identifies the requested bulk form copies with reasonable particularity. Unless
the request is refused under §
35.35, upon receipt of a valid written request the County Recorder or the
County Recorder’s designee shall provide the bulk copies to the bulk user by
the method or methods established by this subchapter. The bulk form copies
shall be provided within a reasonable time after the latter of the following
events:
      (1)   The Recorder’s archival process is completed and bulk form copies
become available in the County Recorder’s office; and
      (2)   The bulk form user executes a contract that meets the requirements
of §
35.35 with:
         (a)   The County Recorder; and
         (b)   If the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder’s designee.
   (B)   The County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee shall work with
reasonable diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produced to the
bulk user.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 35.33 FEES CHARGED FOR BULK FORM COPIES.
   (A)   The following fee schedule is hereby adopted:
      (1)   Thirteen cents per page of a copy of a recorded document, including
the instrument’s book and page, if applicable; and
      (2)   Thirteen cents per recorded document for a copy of the indices used
by the County Recorder for finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded
document.
   (B)   The fees charged by the County Recorder are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   The County Recorder shall pay the fees into the county treasury at
the end of each calendar month;
      (2)   The fees prescribed and collected under this section supersede all
other fees for bulk form copies required by the County Recorder to bulk users;
      (3)   All revenue generated by the County Recorder under this section
shall be deposited into the County Recorder’s Perpetuation Fund and used by the
Recorder in accordance with I.C. 36-2-7-10(f); and
      (4)   The Recorder shall periodically update and verify the cost study
referred to in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 35.34 BULK USER CONTRACT TERMINATION.
   (A)   (1)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the County Recorder
and, if the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy services,
the County Recorder’s designee in order to receive bulk for copies. The
contract must be in writing and must require that the bulk user agrees not to
do any of the following:
         (a)   Except as provided in §
35.35, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded
document obtained by the bulk user under this section to a third party;
         (b)   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents; and
         (c)   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
      (2)   A contract required under this division (A) may not include any
restrictions on a bulk form user’s use of the bulk form copies other than those
contained in this section.
   (B)   If a bulk user does not comply with a contract, the County Recorder
may terminate the contract, immediately stop providing bulk form copies to the
bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk copies required by the bulk user if
all termination provisions and procedures in the contract have been met by the
County Recorder. The County Recorder may refuse subsequent requests from a bulk
user for bulk form copies in the following circumstances:
      (1)   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk copy
contract terminated by the County Recorder because the Recorder determined that
the bulk user failed to comply with the contract; and
      (2)   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest, and:
         (a)   The person requested bulk form copies under a previous contract
with the County Recorder; and
         (b)   The contract was terminated by the County Recorder because the
Recorder determined that the person failed to comply with the contract.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 35.35 RESALE OF BULK FORM COPIES.
   (A)   (1)   A bulk user that is licensed under I.C. 27-1-15.6-6(d) or holds
a certificate of authority under I.C. 27-7-3-6 may provide bulk form copies
related to a specific order a title search (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2) when
operating as:
         (a)   A title plant for the issuance of title insurance (as defined in
I.C. 27-7-3-2); or
         (b)   A title company (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2).
      (2)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of this division (A) may
charge its customers a fee for using the bulk fee for using the bulk for copies
obtained by the bulk user that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk
user obtaining the bulk form copies. A bulk user that meets the requirements of
this division (A) may not resell, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of
any copy of a recorded document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies
or images, to any other bulk user title plant.
   (B)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of division (A) above
is prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising for sale, soliciting
a purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing subscription service to, or
otherwise transferring, provide, or allowing the transfer of bulk form copies
for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies are in bulk form
or as individual copies or images.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-22-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWAGE
      
51.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: SEWAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
On-Site Sewage Disposal Systems
   
50.15   Title
   
50.16   Purpose
   
50.17   Authority
   
50.18   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
50.19   Definitions
   
50.20   System requirements
   
50.21   Minimum building site size
   
50.22   Permit process
   
50.23   Installation
   
50.24   Inspections
   
50.25   Petition for review
   
50.26   Enforcement
   
50.27   Remedies
 
   
50.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLOSELY BUILT UP AREAS. Any areas situated outside the corporate limits of
any city or town upon which areas are located either residential or business
buildings. Provided, however, that it shall not included any tract of land,
situated outside the corporate limits of any city or town, consisting of ten
acres or more and upon which tract of land is located only one building which
is used for residential purposes. Further, that it shall not include any tract
of land situated outside the corporate limits of any city or town which tract
of land is used for farming or agricultural purposes.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface water run off and sewage.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage disposal system not constructed,
installed, and maintained, operated, and owned by a municipality or a taxing
district established for that purpose.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sewer constructed, installed, maintained, operated, and
owned by a municipality or a taxing district established for that purpose. A
county sewer installed for the purpose of carrying surface water run off and
subsoil drainage shall not be considered a PUBLIC SEWER under this definition.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Any combination of human excreta and wastewater from water closets,
laundries, sinks, bathing facilities, and other objectionable wastewaters.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
receiving, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe of conduit for carrying sewage.
(Prior Code, § 8-25-1)
**** ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS ****
§ 50.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “On-site Sewage Disposal Ordinance of Lawrence County,” and may
be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
prevention and suppression of disease and health risks associated with the use
of on-site sewage disposal systems, and to otherwise promote public safety and
welfare, and protection of the environment.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.17 AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer of the county, as hereinafter defined, and the Health
Officer’s agents and representatives are hereby authorized to issue permits,
collect permit and incidental fees, perform inspections, and order or otherwise
compel correction of violations of this subchapter, and are otherwise
authorized to perform all actions necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.18 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The regulations of the State Department of Health, as found in 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq., 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 et seq., and Bulletin S.E. 13, 1998
edition, et seq. are hereby incorporated by reference in this subchapter and
shall include any later amendments to those regulations as the same are
published in the State Register of the Indiana Administrative Code with
effective dates as fixed therein. [H.I.]
   (B)   Copies of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 et seq., 410 I.A.C. 6-10 et seq,, and
Bulletin S.E. 13, 1998 edition, et seq. are available and on file in the office
of the County Board of Health and the County Auditor.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.19 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to or to otherwise supplement those definitions contained in 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq., 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 et seq., and Bulletin S.E. 13 et seq.
which are incorporated herein by reference this subchapter shall include the
following definitions.
   BEDROOM EQUIVALENT. A room with a window and closet, a jetted bathtub,
swimming pool, computer room, game room, business or office in the home, second
kitchen facility, or basement plumbing. Each of the preceding BEDROOM
EQUIVALENTS will be counted as a bedroom when calculating septic tank capacity
and soil absorption field size.
   BOARD. The County Board of Health.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. A building or structure utilized primarily for a
commercial establishment including, but not limited to, office buildings,
apartments, condominiums, motels, mobile home parks, churches, campgrounds,
schools, hospitals, nursing homes, restaurants, and the like, at locations
where such facilities may be approvable.
   DUPLEX. A single dwelling under one roof as defined in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1-
7 with two separate living quarters for two separate families.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the county.
   MULTIPLE FAMILY UNITS. Any building or place used or intended to be used as
a place of seasonal or permanent human habitation or for sleeping for more than
two families.
   ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage disposal facility not owned by a
municipality or sanitary district or administered by the State Department of
Health and shall include septic tanks, aeration tanks, elevated sand mounds,
finger systems, or other subsurface absorption fields.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. Any land development, which requires the specific
zoning classification entitled PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. A system that provides piped water for human
consumption to at least 15 service connections or at least 25 people, at least
60 days out of the year.
   RESIDENCE. A dwelling, as defined in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1-7.
   SANITARY PRIVY. A privy so located, constructed, and maintained, as defined
in the State Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 11.
   SET-ASIDE. An area that has been soil tested and deemed suitable by the
County Health Department for replacement or addition to an on-site sewage
disposal system according to 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 et seq. on the same site should
the original on-site sewage disposal system fail or become inadequate due to
modifications to the dwelling.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.20 SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   Where a sanitary sewer system is not available, all persons owning, leasing,
or otherwise occupying property shall comply with 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 et seq. and
410 I.A.C. 6-10 et seq. and the following provisions for an on-site sewage
disposal system.
   (A)   No person shall throw, run, drain, seep, or otherwise dispose into any
of the surface waters or groundwaters of the county, or cause, permit, or
suffer to be thrown, run, drained, allowed to seep, or otherwise disposed into
such waters any organic or inorganic matter from an on-site sewage disposal
system that would cause or contribute to health hazard or water pollution.
   (B)   Privies shall comply with the State Department of Health Bulletin S.E.
11. Bulletin S.E. 11 is herein incorporated by reference as part of this
section and two copies are filed in the office of the County Auditor, and the
County Board of Health for public inspection. In the case of self-contained
chemical toilets, no pit will be required. If a privy, chemical toilet,
incinerating toilet, composting toilet, or any other toilet that is not
connected to plumbing fixtures is utilized and any additional wastewater is
generated from the residence, duplex, multiple family unit, or business
building, an on-site sewage disposal system in compliance with this subchapter
must be utilized.
   (C)   Should an on-site sewage disposal system fail, the failure shall be
corrected by the owner or occupant of the property served by such system within
the time limit set by the Health Officer.
   (D)   Whenever a sanitary sewerage system becomes available and is within
500 feet of the property line of developed property in the county that contains
a residence, duplex, multiple family unit, or business building served by an
on-site sewage disposal system, chemical toilet, composting toilet,
incinerating toilet, privy, or any other toilet not connected to plumbing
fixtures, a direct connection of the building sewer shall be made to said
sanitary sewer and any septic tanks, seepage pits, outhouses, privy pits, and
similar sewage disposal and treatment facilities shall be abandoned and filled
in a safe and sanitary manner. The direct connection to a sanitary sewerage
system shall be made within 180 days of issuance of orders of connection.
   (E)   Whenever a new residence, duplex, multiple family unit, or business
building is to be constructed in an area where a sanitary sewerage system is
available as provided in division (D) above, a connection shall be made to the
sanitary sewer prior to construction of any such project.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.21 MINIMUM BUILDING SITE SIZE.
   (A)   In order to be considered for an on-site sewage disposal system, a
proposed building site shall have room for the approved septic absorption field
and an additional set-aside area for installation of a second on-site sewage
disposal system in the event of a failure or other need for future repair to
the original system.
   (B)   The set-aside area must be located in an area on the building site
that has been soil tested and deemed suitable by the County Health Department
for sustaining an on-site sewage disposal system.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.22 PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)   Application. Before the commencement of construction, alteration, or
repair of an on-site sewage disposal system, the owner shall apply in writing
to the County Health Department for a permit to construct, alter, or repair an
on-site sewage disposal system. The application shall consist of:
      (1)   An application form;
      (2)   A fee;
      (3)   A soil analysis report conducted by an ARCPACS or IRSS recognized
soil scientist;
      (4)   A house plan;
      (5)   A system drawing which addresses the demands of the site in
accordance with 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq. and this subchapter, and also includes
the location of the set-aside area; and
      (6)   A list of system components, as well as any other information
required by the Health Officer or in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1-48 and 410 I.A.C. 6-10-6,
previously incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   A permit fee as determined by the County Board of Health shall be
payable as provided by the fee ordinance of the County Health Department.
      (2)   The fee for an on-site sewage disposal permit shall be paid at the
time the application is submitted.
   (C)   Permit.
      (1)   A permit for the installation of an on-site sewage disposal system
issued after the adoption of this subchapter shall lapse and be void if work
has not been started within one year after permit issuance. A soil survey more
than one year old may be reviewed by the County Health Department to determine
if additional soil analysis and information is required.
      (2)   (a)   No part of an on-site sewage disposal system for a residence,
duplex, multiple family unit, or business building shall be located closer than
25 feet to a surface water drain tile, streambed, or surface water drain. The
rules and regulations of the Drainage Board will apply for any legal ditch or
drain.
         (b)   All parts of the on-site sewage disposal system must be kept at
least 50 feet from any water well or spring, 50 feet from an open sinkhole, and
25 feet from a closed sinkhole.
      (3)   No on-site sewage disposal system shall serve more than one
residence or mobile home, more than one duplex, multiple family unit, or
business building unless permitted by 410 I.A.C. 6-10 et seq.
      (4)   Any residence, duplex, multiple family unit, or business building
that will be served by an on-site sewage disposal system and that has public
water lines located within 500 feet of its property line shall be required to
connect to such public water utility.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.23 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Installer license.
      (1)   No person shall construct, install, replace, repair, or alter any
part of any on-site sewage disposal system in the county until the person is
licensed by the County Health Department as a licensed installer for the type
of system to be installed.
      (2)   In order to become licensed, an individual must:
         (a)   File an application for license;
         (b)   Demonstrate knowledge of the applicable laws, rules, and
regulations before becoming licensed by passing a proficiency examination
conducted by the County Health Department, or any other exam sanctioned by the
County Health Department (for example, the Indiana On-site Wastewater
Professional Association’s (IOWPA) exam);
         (c)   Present proof of liability insurance issued by a company
registered in the state showing coverage for the entire term of the license.
The liability policy shall be sufficient to indemnify persons for whom faulty
work may be performed or a minimum of $300,000;
         (d)   Present a surety bond issued by a company registered in the
state showing coverage in the amount of $10,000. Said surety bond shall be
filed with the County Health Department, who will control the proceeds of the
same in the event a claim is made against said bond; and
         (e)   Pay an initial fee as set forth in the County Health Department
fee ordinance.
      (3)   Licenses issued hereunder shall be valid for a term of one year
beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year and shall be
renewed annually. The license shall bear the name and address of the licensed
installer and the expiration date and shall not be transferable. Any license
that is not renewed within one year of the expiration date shall be considered
void and the installer must re-apply for license and pass the proficiency test.
      (4)   The installer shall maintain in his or her possession a copy of the
license at all times when installing on-site sewage disposal systems.
      (5)   A licensed installer shall be on the site at all times during
construction, and shall be deemed responsible for the installation. A licensed
installer may supervise other construction workers as necessary to assist in
the installation.
      (6)   A property owner wishing to install, repair, or otherwise work on
the on-site sewage disposal system serving his or her own dwelling shall be
required to demonstrate knowledge of the applicable laws, rules, and
regulations by taking the proficiency exam conducted by the County Health
Department or any other exam sanctioned by the County Health Department (for
example, the Indiana On-site Wastewater Professional Association’s (IOWPA)
exam).
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   A fee for an installer license shall be submitted prior to issuance
of the license. An annual renewal fee shall also be assessed for continuation
of the license and shall also be submitted prior to issuance of the renewed
license. These fees shall be set forth in the County Health Department fee
ordinance.
      (2)   A property owner as described in division (A)(6) above shall be
exempt from the license fee.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.24 INSPECTIONS.
   The County Board of Health, its agent, or the Health Officer or his or her
agent shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing necessary to ensure
compliance with this subchapter and to verify no on-site sewage disposal system
has failed.
   (A)   When deemed necessary, inspections by the Health Officer or his or her
agent may be conducted before permit issuance or construction.
   (B)   No construction of the on-site sewage disposal system may take place
if the on-site sewage disposal system site is disturbed or altered after the
on-site soil analysis by the addition of fill material (other than construction
necessary for the on-site sewage disposal system itself) or by cutting,
scraping, compaction, or the removal of soil, until a new soil analysis has
been conducted and a modified permit has been issued.
   (C)   Each septic site must be protected from construction traffic by being
roped or otherwise cordoned off.
   (D)   The County Health Department is to be given two business days notice
prior to the covering of any part of the on-site sewage disposal system in
order to be able to conduct a final inspection of the system.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.25 PETITION FOR REVIEW.
   The County Board of Health shall hear appeals incidental to the issuance and
revocation of permits and/or licenses if, within 15 days following the date of
receipt of an issued permit and/or license, permit and/or license modification,
notice of permit and/or license denial or notice of permit, and/or license
revocation, and person aggrieved by such action files a petition for review
concerning such action with the Board.
   (A)   A petition for review shall state:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number (if applicable) of the
person making the request;
      (2)   Identify the interests of the petitioner which is affected by the
permit and/or license issuance, denial, modification, or revocation;
      (3)   Identify the persons whom the petitioner represents;
      (4)   State with particularity the issues proposed to be considered; and
      (5)   Include proposed terms or conditions which, in the judgment of the
petitioner, would be appropriate to carry out the requirements of law and 410
I.A.C. 6-10.1 et seq. or 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq. governing such permits and/or
licenses.
   (B)   The procedures established in I.C. 4-21.5, the Administrative
Procedure and Orders Act, shall apply to the conduct of the hearing.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
shall be served by the County Board of Health or the duly appointed Health
Officer with a written order stating the nature of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit, but not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days, for
correction of any violations of this subchapter. The written order shall be
served either by certified mail or personal service by the Health Officer of
the county or his or her designate.
   (B)   (1)   Application of this subchapter or any part of this subchapter is
intended to be consistent with 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq. and 410 I.A.C. 6-10-
1 et seq.
      (2)   Any inconsistency in the direct application of this subchapter with
said regulations shall be resolved in favor of enforceability of those
regulations.
   (C)   (1)   Following the recommendations of the hearing officer, there
shall be a fine of up to $25,000 imposed upon any person or entity that fails
to obtain a septic permit prior to the installation of an on-site sewage
disposal system in the county.
      (2)   This fine shall also apply to installers and developers as well as
the home or business owner who fail to ensure that a septic permit is obtained
prior to installation of the on-site sewage disposal system or construction of
any buildings or structures on the affected property.
   (D)   (1)   There shall be sliding scale fine of up to $25,000 imposed upon
any person or entity that fails to notify the County Health Department for a
final inspection of an on-site sewage disposal system.
      (2)   This fine shall apply to installers as well as the home or business
owners of the affected property.
   (E)   To the extent the provisions of 410 I.A.C. 6-10 et seq. and 410 I.A.C.
6-8.1 et seq. is inconsistent with each other, then that interpretation
provided by 410 I.A.C. 6-10 et seq. shall apply for on-site sewage disposal
system serving business buildings and multiple family units, and that
interpretation provided by 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 shall apply for on-site sewage
disposal system serving residences and duplexes.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.27 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The Health Officer may, in the name of the County Commissioners, bring
actions in the County Circuit Court or Superior Courts of the county for
mandatory and injunctive relief for the enforcement of and to secure compliance
with any order or orders made by the Health Officer or to otherwise provide for
the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined
with an action to recover the penalties, costs, and expenses provided in this
subchapter.
      (2)   In the event any legal action is necessary to enforce this
subchapter, the Health Officer may seek recovery of costs and expenses
reasonably incurred to enforce the provisions of this subchapter including, but
not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation of §§
50.15 through
50.27 beyond the time limit provided for correction of any violations of §§
50.15 through
50.27 or who shall fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined or who shall
fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the Health Officer
shall be punished for the first offense by a fine of $1,000 for the first day,
and $500 for each day the violation continues. Each day a violation of §§
50.15 through
50.27 continues shall constitute a separate offense for which a separate fine
may be levied.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-18-2006)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
Trash Containers
   
51.01   Certain acts, persons prohibited
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Use of trash containers
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Landfill operations, Chapter 114
**** TRASH CONTAINERS ****
§ 51.01 CERTAIN ACTS, PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No individuals, partnerships, firms, businesses, corporations,
or associations not having his, her, or its current residence in the county
shall, by any means, use any trash container located in the county, or the
county landfill, for the purpose of dumping or depositing any items of trash,
garbage, refuge, bricks, building stone, car springs, refrigerators, stoves, or
any other items.
      (2)   Said trash containers and the County Landfill are for the benefit
of county residents and taxpayers only.
      (3)   The prohibition of this section shall likewise apply to any
commercial hauler of trash or refuge.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1)
   (B)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association shall
put, throw, dump, or leave any tin cans, old iron, brush, boxes, tools,
machinery, vehicles, rubbish, brick, wood, logs, glass, glassware, glass
bottles, glass jars, broken glass, broken glassware, dead animals, or fowls, or
debris of any character whatsoever in, upon, or within, or along any county
road or highway in the county.
      (2)   No person shall in any way dispose of, dump, bury, cover, discard,
or throw away any hazardous waste anywhere in the county, as the term hazardous
waste is defined by the State Board of Health and its various divisions.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1)
(Ord. 1973-2, passed 6-18-1973; Ord. 76-1, passed 4-19-1976; Ord. 1984-4,
passed 7-23-1984; Ord. passed 10-31-1989) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LANDFILL. The county landfill during hours when the same is open to the
public.
   PERSON. Includes singular or plural, as well as any firm, partnership,
corporation, or association.
   TRASH CONTAINERS. Any metal container placed by the county at various points
in the county for the collection of trash.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1) (Ord. 1973-2, passed 6-18-1973; Ord. 76-1, passed 4-19-
1976; Ord. passed 10-31-1989)
§ 51.03 USE OF TRASH CONTAINERS.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, corporations, or association shall
put, throw, dump, or leave any refrigerator, stove, electric or gas appliance,
stone, gravel, bricks, or mortar or sand inside or beside or alongside any
trash container in the county.
      (2)   Any such person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association
desiring to dispose of any such items shall take same to the county landfill
and shall deposit same inside the county landfill in the area designated for
such deposits.
   (B)   No dead animals or fowls shall be deposited in any trash container in
the county by any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association. Such
as those as the operator of the landfill will permit shall only be deposited at
the county landfill in the county in the properly-designated area.
   (C)   No person, firm, partnership, corporations, or association shall put,
throw, dump, or leave any trash or rubbish or refuse of any kind beside a trash
container in the county. If the trash containers in any area are full, then any
person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association shall dump the same in a
trash container in another location which has capacity to accept same, or shall
dump the same in the county landfill in the properly designated area.
   (D)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association shall
engaged in either the full-time or part-time business of commercial trash and/
or rubbish hauling and/or disposal for any person, firm, partnership,
corporation, or association other than themselves or itself, nor shall they
put, throw, dump, or leave any trash, rubbish, refuse, appliance, or article of
any kind or nature in any trash container in the county, but instead shall
deposit the same at the county landfill in the properly designated area.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall commit or do any of the following acts:
         (a)   Examine the contents of any said trash containers;
         (b)   Remove all or any part of the contents from said trash
containers (this includes, but is not limited to, bottles, cans, toys, tools,
and any other item);
         (c)   Overturn, upset, damage, or move any of said trash containers;
or
         (d)   1.   Pilfer the contents of any part of any trash container or
from any sacks, boxes, or other containers of trash which may be within the
immediate vicinity of any of the said trash containers, regardless of the fact
that the same would have been unlawfully deposited there.
            2.   For purposes of this division (E), any area within 150 feet of
any such trash container shall be construed to be “immediate vicinity.”
      (2)   The term PILFER, for purposes of this division (E), includes the
following terms: rummage through, tear apart, examine, remove, take from bags
or sacks or other containers, rip, tear, or cut open bags or sacks or other
containers of trash, or to undo or open same in any other way, or attempt to do
any of these acts, and in any way determine or attempt to determine what the
contents of the trash or objects that someone else may have discarded or thrown
away.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2) (Ord. 1973-2, passed 6-18-1973; Ord. 76-1, passed 4-19-
1976; Ord. passed 10-31-1989)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
51.01(A) shall be fined in the sum of $500 together with any court costs
occasioned by the proceedings instituted against them.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1)
   (C)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association who
violates any provision of §§
51.01(B) through
51.03 shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum of not less than $50, nor not more
than $500 for each separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3)
(Ord. 1973-2, passed 6-18-1973; Ord. 76-1, passed 4-19-1976; Ord. 1984-4,
passed 7-23-1984; Ord. passed 10-31-1989)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Maximum speed limits
   
70.03   Impounding vehicles
   
70.04   Stop intersections; yield intersections
   
70.05   Travel restrictions; severe weather
   
70.06   Private roadways
Load Limits
   
70.20   Load limits on bridges
   
70.21   Highway load limits
   
70.22   Truck hauling permit
 
   
70.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the street roadway which lies between the lateral
boundary lines of two or more streets when two or more streets cut across or
overlap each other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is capable of propelling itself
(excluding the engine and other cars of a train). This term shall also include
motorcycles of either two-wheel, three-wheel, or four-wheel varieties, and
other small types of motor assisted transportation, such as city bikes.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person who is walking, standing, or sitting and who is not a
driver of or a passenger in a motor vehicle; the term shall also apply to any
person who is not an operator of or passenger upon a bicycle.
   PERSON. Every natural man, woman, or child, as well as a partnership,
corporation, and unincorporated association or similar type of ownership or, or
use of, property.
   PUBLIC WAY. A portion of real estate, normally improved, upon which persons
operate motor vehicles, and which is open to the public.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right to the use of a public way.
   ROAD, STREET, OR HIGHWAY. All the width of the surface of every public way
that is maintained regularly by the county, and which has been officially
accepted into its highway system.
   SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT. Any Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, or Sheriff Reserve
Member.
   STOP. To quit moving.
   STOP, STOPPING, OR STANDING. Where prohibited, means the stopping of a motor
vehicle, or once stopped, to permit the same to remain in such position and
place for any time, whether the motor vehicle has a person or persons inside
it, or upon it, or not.
   STOP STREET. Every street, road, or highway which, when it intersects
another street, road, or highway, is required by law to come to an absolute
stop before proceeding to enter the intersection.
   THROUGH STREET. Every street, road, or highway over which vehicular traffic
from intersecting streets is required to yield the right-of-way.
(I.C. 9-4-1-14)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any stop sign, yield sign, speed limit sign, road
weight limit sign, bridge weight limit sign, or any other type of sign or
automatic signal which operates to direct the stopping, starting, movement,
right-of-way of one person’s movement, as opposed to another person, or
otherwise restrict motorists in their use of highways, bridges, and
intersections, which signs have been placed upon said county highways by the
county, the state, or any other political subdivision.
   YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY. When one slows, and if necessary stops completely, in
order to permit another to proceed to enter into an intersection before them,
or take a path of travel which would otherwise have caused a toughing of the
persons involved, and/or their motor vehicles, but for such slowing or
stopping.
   YIELD SIGN. A triangular sign with the letters “Yield” imprinted thereon.
When placed alongside and facing a certain direction of travel, it means that
other persons have the right-of-way and no person should not interfere with
their right.
(Prior Code, Chapter 5-1)
§ 70.02 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   Due to the fact that many of the county’s roadways have aged, with
insufficient right-of-way, the same having been laid out for slower means of
transportation, such as horses and wagons, the maximum speed limit throughout
all of the county is 35 mph, except where designated otherwise. No person
should attempt to drive the county roadways any faster than that. The roadways
are not designed for any greater speeds. Further, there are some areas (in and
around curves in the roadway) when even that speed may not be safe, depending
on conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any member of the Sheriff’s Department is authorized to remove any and
all motor vehicles or other things of whatever nature from any public street,
road, or highway in the county, to any other place which shall include any
garage or storage area maintained by the county when such motor vehicle or
other thing of whatever nature is found to be left unattended upon the streets,
roads, or highways of the county where:
      (1)   A motor vehicle or other item is found upon a public highway
unattended, and where the same is, in the Sheriff’s officer’s sole opinion,
obstructing traffic or endangering the users of such street, road, or highway;
      (2)   When there is a disabled motor vehicle upon any street, highway, or
roadway in the county which, in the sole opinion of the Sheriff’s officer,
constitutes an obstruction to the normal and safe flow of traffic, and the
person in charge of the vehicle is, by reason of physical injury, apparent use
of controlled substance or substances, of any other reason, incapable of
providing for such vehicles’ removal; or
      (3)   When any motor vehicle is parked in such a manner that any portion
thereof extends over or touches the paved surface of the roadway so as to be a
hazard or impediment to moving traffic.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
   (B)   If such motor vehicle is not returned to the owner or person clearly
entitled to its use within three days of the date and hour such vehicle was so
impounded, then a written report of such removal shall be made, signed by such
Sheriff’s officer, and mailed to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, Registration
Division. A copy of this notice shall also be given any person who is the
operator of a private garage who has possession of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 70.04 STOP INTERSECTIONS; YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at or approximately at right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every automobile or vehicle, as well as all motorized
bicycles and non-motorized bicycles.
      STREET. Includes the word ROAD, ROADWAY, DRIVE, and HIGHWAY.
      THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the
entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is
required by law to yield the right-of-way to vehicles on such THROUGH HIGHWAY
in obedience to either a “Stop” sign or a “Yield” sign, when such signs are
erected as provided in this title.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
      YIELD INTERSECTIONS. All streets or highways or portion thereof which
bears a “Yield” sign. All motor vehicles on any public highway which bears a
“Yield” sign shall first slow such motor vehicle, even coming to a complete
stop, if necessary, in order to yield the right-of-way to those persons having
the right-of-way and operating on a through highway.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
   (B)   Whenever the Board of Commissioners shall pass any ordinance which
designates any street as a stop street, or any intersection a four-way stop
intersection or three-way stop intersection, then the County Highway
Superintendent, when notified, shall be responsible for the prompt obtaining of
“Stop” signs and the erection of any such sign in accordance therewith.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4)
   (C)   (1)   No person shall remove, damage, or possess any “Stop” sign or
other traffic control device in the county without the specific authorization
of the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The liability of the county is threatened every time some person
steals, knocks down, or takes any such directional sign away from its location,
or turns it in such a manner as not to be able to be observed by the
pedestrians, bicycle or motorcycle riders, and drivers of vehicles which it is
designed to protect. Thus, the enforcement of this law is urged.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5)
   (D)   (1)   Every person operating a motor vehicle upon a county highway who
approaches an intersection marked with a “Stop” sign for traffic upon such
person’s roadway, shall first bring his or her motor vehicle to a complete stop
and shall look all ways before entering or crossing such intersection with any
through highway.
      (2)   All persons operating a motor vehicle on a through highway shall
have the preferred right-of-way over any person operating a motor vehicle upon
a street where said stop street intersects such through highway.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6)
   (E)   Any person who comes upon an intersection which they know to be a stop
intersection is directed to proceed carefully through such intersection, due to
a large number of traffic control sign violations that remain unsolved.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7)
   (F)   (1)   Any person who sees or otherwise has notice that a traffic
control sign has been removed for any reason shall promptly report such fact to
the County Sheriff’s Department.
      (2)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall promptly notify the county
highway garage and the persons receiving such notice shall promptly investigate
the matter and put up new signs to replace any that have been stolen or
damaged.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8)
   (G)   (1)   The county does hereby offer a reward of $500 to any person or
persons who furnish information leading to the arrest and conviction of any
person or persons for the offense of damage, removal, or possession of any
county “Stop” sign or traffic control device.
      (2)   If information of more than one person is used for the successful
arrest and conviction of such person, then the reward money shall be shared
equally between the persons offering such information.
      (3)   Should one person be found to have damaged, removed, or possessed
more than one such traffic control device, nevertheless, only one reward of
$500 shall be paid, and not $500 per traffic control device.
      (4)   Said reward shall be paid from the County General Fund as soon as
same can properly be advertised and Councilmanic action can be taken.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; SEVERE WEATHER.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners do now adopt and ordain the
travel restriction categories recommended by the State Department of Homeland
Security.
      (2)   Attached to and incorporated herein under division (B) below is a
diagram listing the level and restrictive conditions established hereby.
   (B)   Emergency levels.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0c43abc9a67924e42a41dddf41e92279fadfa386/
IMAGES/0-0-0-808.png]
 
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 70.06 PRIVATE ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Not all roads, streets, or highways in the county are included in the
County Highway System for maintenance by the county.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
   (B)   All persons are cautioned by the Board of Commissioners to check very
carefully to make sure that the real estate you might purchase be located upon
a county roadway included in the system. Do not presume that the contractor or
seller can get the roadway accepted without someone first, at his or her own
expense, bringing that roadway up to certain minimum standards as are set
forward in division (C) below.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
   (C)   No exceptions will be made to this section. If a citizen understands
that the roadway in question is going to be taken in, the citizen shall make
sure that he or she has adequate, satisfactorily guarantees from the contractor
or seller. The fact that the county may have, in the past, maintained any
portion of any roadway does not mean that the county will always do so.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
   (D)   (1)   There are roads and highways which are shown on certain old maps
as being “state roads” or “public roads” or “county roads.” However, the
Commissioners have the right to close any roadway where the same is considered
to be either impractical or unsafe. (See Burns Indiana Statutes Annotated, § 8
8-17-14A-1)
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
      (2)   This question will not normally be answered by an abstract of title
or a title insurance policy. Those have to do with the merchantability of the
title to certain real estate, not whether same adjoins a roadway maintained by
the County Highway Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
      (3)   (a)   Citizens shall check with the County Highway Superintendent’s
office in the Courthouse to make sure that the road or street he or she is
dealing with is presently contained in the County Highway Maintenance System.
         (b)   This is no guarantee that the road will always be maintained by
the county, but it will keep any misunderstanding from coming about at a later
time.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)
Cross-reference:
   County highways, streets maintenance, construction, §§
150.01 through
150.04
**** LOAD LIMITS ****
§ 70.20 LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   The county contracts with the state for making, constructing, and
erecting of load limit signs for all bridges with a maximum load of less than
16 tons shown on such report of AECON, Inc. as revised and presented to the
Board of Commissioners on May 14, 1984.
   (B)   (1)   The maximum load limits for all such bridges as shown upon said
report be and the same are hereby adopted by the Commissioners and made the
absolute maximum load limits for each such representative reports.
      (2)   Such report as revised is this so adopted and incorporated by
reference herein and made a part hereof. A copy of such report is on file with
the County Auditor, Courthouse, Bedford, Indiana, and is available for
inspection during regular Courthouse hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-2)
(Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-11-1984) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 HIGHWAY LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners reserve the right to hereafter pass
ordinances fixing load limits on any specific roadway or highway and all
roadways and highways in the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-1)
   (B)   All weight limits shall be posted.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-2)
   (C)   This shall not prevent the County Commissioners from thereafter
lowering weight limits or increasing weight (load) limits on any particular
road as the Commissioners shall from time to time determine to be in the best
interest of the County Highway System.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-3)
§ 70.22 TRUCK HAULING PERMIT.
   (A)   All persons, companies, corporations, partnerships, and other legal
entities shall be required to obtain a truck hauling permit prior to operating
any motor vehicle upon any road within the jurisdiction of the County Highway
System if the total gross vehicle weight is in excess of the posted weight
limit for said road, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all highways in the County Highway System
under the jurisdiction of the Board of Commissioners, except highways in the
State Highway System and the state-maintained routes thereof through cities and
towns.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person so driving any motor vehicle upon, on or over the roads,
streets, or highways of the county, as stated in §
70.02, shall be fined $50 and costs for any speed up to nine mph over the speed
limit, and $100 and costs for any speed that exceeds the figure of ten mph over
the speed limit which is applicable at that point.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violated any section of §
70.04 for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall, upon conviction, be
fined in the sum of $200 together with the costs of the action.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-9)
      (2)   Any person so damaging or destroying any such “Stop” sign shall, as
described in §
70.04(C), upon conviction, be fined in the sum of $1,000, and in addition
thereto they shall be liable for any criminal law violations which would have
occurred by the unauthorized use of such property, or either or both.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall take, remove, knock or pull down, damage,
destroy, in whole or in part, deface, paint over, or obscure the lettering or
numbers upon any such sign, as described in §
70.20, or any person who shall attempt to take, remove, knock or pull down,
damage, destroy, in whole or in part, deface, paint over, or obscure the
lettering or numbers upon any such sign, may be fined not more than $1,000.
      (2)   It is a defense, under division (D)(1) above that the person who
commits a violation of §
70.20 shall:
         (a)   Report said violation of §
70.20(A) to the Sheriff’s Department, within 24 hours of said violation by
giving his or her name, home address, and telephone number to said Sheriff;
         (b)   Report the violation of §
70.20(A) to the Highway Department of the county within 72 hours of such damage
by giving his or her name, home address, and telephone number to said
Department;
         (c)   Pay the costs of repair and/or replacement of such sign as
determined by the County Highway Superintendent within 14 days of being
notified in writing of such cost of replacement. The 14-day time period shall
begin to run on the day after such notification of costs has been served upon
them, either personally or by certified mail; and/or
         (d)   Any person who shall cross any such posted bridge with a total
gross tonnage in excess of the maximum load limit so posted may be fined not
more than one $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-2)
(Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-11-1984)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Intersections
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   Direction of traffic
   
IV.   Weight limits
SCHEDULE I. INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Motor vehicular traffic on the inner part of the Public Square
in Bedford, Indiana, and seeking to exit onto 15th Street, J Street, or 15th
Street, I Street, must first yield to the motor vehicular traffic traveling on
15th Street, J Street, or 15th Street, I Street.
      (2)   When entering the roadway, which is situated around the center part
of the Public Square from 15th Street, J Street, or 15th Street, I Street, in
Bedford, all entering traffic may yield to the traffic already proceeding
around the inside of the Public Square.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3)
   (B)   (1)   Presently, the intersection of county road L6 S2W and Old S.R.
37 has been designated as a two-way stop intersection under Chapter 5-4-2,
Appendix Schedule A of the Code of Ordinances of the County of Lawrence.
      (2)   From the date of passage of this division (B), the intersection of
county road L6 S2W and Old S.R. 37 shall hereinafter be designated a four-way
stop intersection.
   (C)   (1)   The County Board of Commissioners designates the intersection of
Anderson Road and Bennett Road in Marshall Township, Lawrence County, Indiana
as a three-way stop intersection. This intersection shall be added to Schedule
A listing of Three-Way Stop Intersections under Chapter 5-4-2 of the Lawrence
County Code.
      (2)   The County Board of Commissioners does now hereby direct the County
Highway Superintendent to take all necessary steps to place appropriate “Stop”
signs at appropriate locations at said intersection in order that all motorists
traveling through said intersection are required to stop before proceeding
through.
   (D)   (1)   The intersection located at Stone Crest Drive and Bennett Road
shall be designated a three-way stop. The County Highway Superintendent is
hereby directed to install the necessary “Stop” signs at said intersection.
      (2)   The current configuration at the intersection of Pond Lane/
Williams-Silverville Road/Ridge Road has a “Yield” sign at the northeast corner
of said intersection on Ridge Road. The County Highway Superintendent is hereby
directed to move the “Yield” sign to the southwest corner of said intersection
on Williams-Silverville Road.
      (3)   The current configuration at the intersection of Twin Ponds Road/
Stumphole Bridge Road has a “Yield” sign at the northeast corner of said
intersection at Twin Ponds Road. The County Highway Superintendent is hereby
directed to remove the existing “Yield” sign and place a “Stop” sign at the
southwest corner of said intersection on Stumphole Bridge Road.
   (E)   The intersection located at Walner Quarry Road and Bartlettsville Road
shall be designated a three-way stop. The County Highway Superintendent is
hereby directed to install the necessary “Stop” signs at said intersection.
   (F)   (1)   The intersection located at Walner Quarry Road and
Bartlettsville Road is hereby taken off the list of designated three-way stops
in the county. The north-south thoroughfare known as Bartlettsville Road shall
hereafter not have “Stop” signs stopping the flow of traffic at the
intersection with Walner Quany Road.
      (2)   The intersection of Walner Quarry Road with Bartlettsville Road
shall continue to have a “Stop” sign stopping traffic at Walner Quarry Road
before it enters onto Bartlettsville Road.
   (G)   The intersection of B.J. Boulevard, as it merges into B.J. Boulevard
and Corrielane, shall have a “Stop” sign posted.
(Res. passed 6-1-1993; Ord. 2001-15, passed 9-25-2001; Ord. 2014-03, passed 3-
11-2014; Ord. 2017-02, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-2-2021; Ord.
2023-07, passed 8-29-2023)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
Description Speed Limits
Description                               Speed Limits
Bedford St., both directions              25 mph
Brick St., both directions                25 mph
Burton Lane                               35 mph
Church Camp Rd., both directions, from    30 mph
South I St. to Sandpit Rd.
City of Huron, Indiana roads and streets  25 mph
City of Willams, Indiana roads and        25 mph
streets
Diamond Rd.                               35 mph
Diamond Rd., in the vicinity of           25 mph, whenever children are present
Heltonville Elementary School
Dixie Highway                             35 mph
Dixie Highway, east of S.R. 37            40 mph
Dixie Highway, west of S.R. 37            35 mph
Fleenor Rd., between S.R. 60 and Parks    30 mph
Implement Rd.
Fleenor Rd., south of Parks Implement Rd. 35 mph
Judah Logan Rd. from Old S.R. 37 to       35 mph*
McFadden Ridge Rd.
Leatherwood Rd., from Shawswick School    35 mph
Rd. to Standish Steel Rd.
Liberty Church Rd.                        30 mph
Meridian Rd., north of Mill Creek Rd.     35 mph
Middle Rd., Vinegar Hill Addition         20 mph
Mill Creek Rd., east of Ball Rd.          35 mph
Mill Creek Rd., west of Ball Rd.          25 mph
North Meridian Rd., from the north city
limits of the City of Mitchell to         25 mph
Palestine Rd.
Old Farm Rd. at LCIS school zone, both    25 mph
directions
Old Farm Rd., both directions             35 mph
Old Highway 60, west                      35 mph
Old Needmore School Rd.                   25 mph
Palestine Rd.                             25 mph
Parks Addition Rd.                        35 mph
Parks Implement Rd.                       35 mph
Popcorn Rd., south of Spencer Pike Rd.,   25 mph
both directions
Rabbitsville Rd., north of Burton Lane    30 mph
Rolling Meadows Road between Leatherwood  30 mph
Road and South Leatherwood Road
Sandpit Rd., both directions, from Church 35 mph
Camp Rd. to South I St. to Sandpit Rd.
Sandpit Rd., both directions from the     30 mph
Bedford city limits to Church Camp Rd.
South I St.                               35 mph
Springville Dr., both directions          20 mph
Springville-Judah Rd., between Popcorn    35 mph
Rd. and Harrodsburg Rd.
Stars Blvd., bordering east side of       25 mph, whenever children are present
Bedford North Lawrence High School
Trogdon Lane, between Old Needmore School 35 mph
Rd. and North Pike Rd.
Trogdon Lane, between Old Needmore School 25 mph
Rd. and Old Highway 37
Wesley Chapel Rd.                         35 mph
West Washboard Rd., between Gas Line Rd.  35 mph
and S.R. 37
Woodville Rd.                             35 mph
Yockey Rd.                                35 mph
Yockey Rd., east of Rabbitsville Rd.      40 mph
Yockey Rd., west of Rabbitsville Rd.      30 mph
Notes to Table:
*   With reduced speed to 20 mph and warning signs in both directions in the
800 through 900 block.
 
(Res. 95-8, passed 6-13-1995; Ord. 2003-07, passed 7-15-2003; Ord. 2010-01,
passed 3-2-2010; Ord. 2012-7, passed 9-11-2012; Ord. 2018-09, passed 10-16-
2018; Ord. 2021-07, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 2022-04, passed 4-26-2022; Ord. 2022-
13, passed 9-27-2022; Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-29-2023; Ord. 2024-6, passed 8-27-
2024)
SCHEDULE III. DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   There shall be one-way traffic around the roadway contiguous to the
Public Square in Bedford, Indiana, in a counter-clockwise manner, with traffic
proceeding in a westerly direction on the north side of the square, proceeding
in a southerly manner direction on the west side of the square, proceeding
easterly on the south side of the square, and proceeding in a northerly
direction on the east side of the square.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1)
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, drive or pedal any two-
wheel, or three-wheel, four-wheel (or more) motorcycles, motor bikes, city
bikes, or any other means of transportation, nor shall he or she push or pull,
or cause to be pushes or pulled, any wagon or other means of conveyance or
transportation, in any direction other than that set forth in division (A)
above.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2)
   (C)   Any person found to have violated the provisions of division (B) above
shall be fine $100 for each such violation and shall further pay the costs of
such action.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3)
SCHEDULE IV. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No person or persons shall cause or permit any vehicle with a maximum
load, including the weight any articles or items being carried by, on or within
such vehicle, to exceed the weight limit for the following bridge or bridges.
 
Description of Bridge                                      Maximum Weight Limit
Stumphole Bridge on County Road 34 over East Fork of White Three tons
River
 
(Prior Code, § 8-11-1)
   (B)   Any person who violates this schedule shall pay a fine in the sum of
$1,000 together with the cost of any action.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-2)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking at the Courthouse Plaza
SCHEDULE I. PARKING AT THE COURTHOUSE PLAZA.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners designate the county-owned parking
lot at the northeast corner of 17th and J Streets as a “permit parking” parking
lot.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand, or park in the said parking lot without a
permit as authorized in this schedule.
   (C)   A person who stops, stands, or parks in the said parking lot without a
permit shall receive a fine of $50. Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. A person fined under this schedule shall pay the
fine within 30 days of the date of the fine. If a person fined under this
schedule fails to pay within 30 days of the date of the fine, he or she shall
owe court costs in addition to the amount of the fine.
   (D)   Employees of the county and the state shall have 30 days from the date
of passage of this schedule to obtain parking permits.
   (E)   The County Commissioners, by and through the County Auditor, shall set
up the process by and through which permits shall be issued and managed.
   (F)   In the event that a person currently employed by the county or the
state obtains a permit and subsequently leaves said employment, said person
shall surrender his or her permit immediately and without delay upon leaving
said employment.
   (G)   In the event that a person not currently employed by the county or the
state obtains such employment, said person may obtain a parking permit as
provided for under this schedule.
   (H)   Department heads and office managers shall be responsible for
obtaining permits from the Auditor for their employees and for returning
permits to the Auditor when their employees leave employment.
   (I)   The County Sheriff, and his or her duly authorized deputies, are
hereby empowered and authorized to enforce this schedule and to issue county
ordinance violation tickets for violations of this schedule. Furthermore, the
County Sheriff, and his or her duly authorized deputies, are hereby empowered
and authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle that is stopped, standing,
or parked in the said parking lot. The owners of said vehicles shall be
responsible for the costs of removal and impoundment.
   (J)   The Auditor is hereby directed to publish this schedule in its
entirety within 30 days of passage in the Bedford, Indiana Times-Mail, and to
post copies of the schedule publicly at the County Courthouse and the
Courthouse Plaza. The Auditor shall forward a copy of this schedule to each
tenant and county office located in the Courthouse Plaza.
   (K)   The Auditor is hereby directed to procure signage for the said parking
lot indicating that the lot is “Permit Only” and that stopping, standing, or
parking in said lot without a permit may result in a fine of $50 plus court
costs for each violation.
   (L)   The Auditor is hereby directed to procure parking permits to issue to
qualified individuals.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 6-12-2018; Ord. 2018-05, passed 7-24-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
90.01   Mowing weeds
   
90.02   Advertising
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** NUISANCES ****
§ 90.01 MOWING WEEDS.
   (A)   Duty of county.
      (1)   The County Commissioners shall cause the County Highway Department
to cut down and remove, within the limits of the county highway right-of-way,
all briars, thistles, burrs, tree sprouts, docks, willows, sumac, reeds,
cattails, tall grass, marijuana, Indian or wild hemp or loco weed, shrubs, and
all other obnoxious growth within the limits of the county rights-of-way
between June 15 and September 1 each year (I.C. 36-2-18). This is for the
protection of the property owner only.
      (2)   The County Commissioners shall further cause the County Highway
Department to cut and trim down to a height not to exceed five feet once in
each calendar year in all cases where hedges and live fences, or any other
natural growths, are found at a highway intersection or adjacent to any curve
where the view of the highway may be intercepted. Such hedges or live fences
shall be maintained at a height of not to exceed five above the level of the
center of the traveled road bed in the highway adjoining, and such altitude
shall be maintained throughout the year for a distance of 50 feet where the
obstructions consist of natural growths, except trees.
(I.C. 32-26-4-1)
      (3)   (a)   Where boundary lines have never been established by competent
authority or by grant, then the highway is established by use, and the width of
the road so established by use is limited by case law to that portion actually
traveled and excludes any berm or shoulder (Evans v. Bowman, 1915, 183 Ind.
264; 108 NE 956; Anderson v. City of Huntington, 1907, 40 Ind. App. 130, 81 NE
223).
         (b)   Any and all persons who own and/or lease real estate which is
adjacent to a county road right-of-way shall mow and/or cut any and all weeds,
grass, trees, and shrubs as often as is necessary as to not allow any weeds,
grass, and/or shrubs which may be located upon such person’s real estate and
which is within five of such county road right-of-way to extend to a height of
greater than 24 inches at any time.
         (c)   Because of the fact that most rights-of-way for county roads in
the county have came about by “user,” there is no prescribed right-of-way width
for the majority of them. Thus, the property owner’s responsibility may extend
to mowing the edge of such traveled portion of the highway, depending upon
whether there has ever been a grant of right-of-way to the county for the
county road describing a definite width (Board of Commissioners of Monroe
County v. Hatton, 1981, ___ Ind. App. ___; 427 NE2d 696).
         (d)   Any person who has any question as to where the county road
right-of-way is located is required to make the proper inquiries of the County
Highway Department, and the County Highway Department will advise such person
whether or not the county’s right-of-way for the that particular road extends
beyond the traveled surface of the roadway. If it does not, then that person so
owning and/or leasing such real estate is required to keep same trimmed and
mowed as provided for above all the way to the edge of the paved portion of the
highway, which is also the edge of such county road right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
   (B)   Responsibility for accidents. Any person or persons so mowing or
trimming his or her real estate in compliance with the above provisions of the
county code shall do so in a careful, cautious manner, and shall not mow or cut
his or her properties in such a manner as might permit or cause any rocks or
debris to be thrown towards persons legally using such county roadways. Such
persons shall be responsible for any and all injuries and damages their actions
might cause, either directly or indirectly, and either proximately, or as an
intervening cause. Further, he or she shall cause such mowing and trimming to
be done cautiously and carefully, and in such a manner that no part of the
mowing or trimming apparatus or the person doing the mowing or trimming extends
upon the county highway right-of-way, due to the possibility of accidents and
injuries.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 90.02 ADVERTISING.
   It is unlawful for any persons, firms, partnerships, organizations,
corporations, associations, or any other entity of any kind whatsoever, to
place, or cause to be placed upon the rights-of-way of the county roads located
in the county, any sign, billboard, advertisement, directional indicator
towards and area for sale or other activity, junked cars, junked trucks,
fencing, or any other type of personal property of any kind whatsoever, within
the boundaries of the rights-of-way of the county road within the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-1) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who fails to comply with §
90.01(A)(3)(b) shall be fined not less than $500, to which may be added the
costs of said action, or said County Highway Department may, by written notice,
inform such owner or owners of such real estate, to be served by the Sheriff of
the county, or any of his or her duly appointed deputies, or served by
certified mail, to cut the same down or mow or trim the same to a height not
greater than 24 inches from the ground within seven days after such notice is
served upon him or her. If such owner, once served, has failed to do so, or
should service not be able to be obtained upon such owner due to change of
address, or any other reason, then the County Highway Department may cause the
same to be mowed and trimmed, and the actual cost of the same shall become a
lien upon such real estate in the year in which the same is charged against
such real estate, and the same shall be collected, and such lien enforced by
sale, if necessary, in the same manner as real property tax sales are now
valid.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
   (C)   Any persons, firms, partnerships, organizations, corporations, or
associations, violating the provisions of §
90.02 shall be fined $500, for each separate infraction, together with the
costs of any action. Further, that such violator be required to reimburse the
county for all expenses incurred by said county in the removal or any such
personal property as described herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2)
(Ord. 1982-2, passed 7-2-1983)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Adoption of state law
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Running at large
   
91.04   Poisoning prohibited
   
91.05   Restraint
   
91.06   Animal care
   
91.07   Animal waste
Dogs, Other Pets
   
91.20   Enticing dogs away from owners
   
91.21   County animal shelter
   
91.22   Running at large; notice
   
91.23   Impoundment
   
91.24   Confinement
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.35   Animal Control Commission
   
91.36   Animal Control Warden
   
91.37   Variances
   
91.38   Permit required; commercial animal establishment, shelter
   
91.39   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   All laws of the state which pertain to the regulation and control of
animals, including, but not limited to, their ownership, licensing, harboring,
abandonment, running at large, rabies control and quarantine, pursuit, capture,
confinement, the prevention and control of diseases of domestic animals, and
the active rules and regulations of the State Board of Health and unlawful acts
relating thereto which are not inconsistent with this chapter are made a part
of this chapter by reference.
   (B)   The sections of this chapter are not to replace state laws, but are to
be considered supplementary and in addition to the laws of the state and are to
be fully enforced where not inconsistent with those laws. Any violation of the
state statute which is an infraction by state law shall also be deemed a
violation of this chapter and may be enforced as an infraction of the same
class of infraction as the state statute.
   (C)   Any instance in this chapter where state laws can apply, state law
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A special deputy of the County Sheriff’s office
appointed by the Sheriff and to whom the Sheriff shall delegate and assign
duties relating to enforcing animal control state and local violations.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by a humane society, or county or
municipal government, or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding
or caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter, state law, or
order of the court.
   AT LARGE. Any animal that is not under direct control of the owner or other
person by leash, cord, fence, chain, or other device of physical restraint, or
an electronic “invisible” fence. The term AT LARGE does not include animals
engaged in lawful hunting accompanied by the owner or custodian.
   FERAL CAT. Any cat that has no apparent owner or identification and is wild,
unsocialized, and unable to be approached or handled.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an Animal Control Officer or other law enforcement officer empowered to act
by law and transporting it to an animal control facility or humane society.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling dogs or
cats.
   NUISANCE ACT. Any act of an animal discharging feces or other excrement on
personal property which is not the property of the animal owner, or any act
resulting in damage to personal property which is not the property of the
animal owner.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, or corporation owning, keeping, or harboring
one or more animals. An animal shall be deemed harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for 15 consecutive days or more.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passers by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals;
      (3)   Trespasses on school grounds;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Damages private or public property; and/or
      (6)   Barks, whines, or howls in an excessive, continuous, or untimely
fashion.
   RESTRAINT. A leash or lead meant to secure an animal under control of a
responsible party, or secured within the real property of the owner, or with
approval, upon the property of another party.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
   VICIOUS/DANGEROUS DOG. Any animal that attacks, bites, or injures human
beings, pets, companion animals, or livestock, or which, because of
temperament, conditioning, or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite,
or injure human beings, pets, companion animals, or livestock. No dog may be
declared VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS if a threat, injury, or damage was sustained by
a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon
the premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the dog or was provoking,
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been observed
to have provoked, tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime. The definition shall not be construed to include
dogs that are part of a governmental organization or a trained guard dog in
performance of its duties.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -)
§ 91.03 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to allow, suffer, or permit any
animal or fowl to be at large within the county. Except, it shall be
permissible during hunting season prescribed by state law for hunting dogs to
be allowed to hunt with their owners/handlers on private property when
permission has been obtained from the land owner or on state land where
allowed.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 POISONING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall deposit, dispose, or place any poisonous substance on
public property in the county.
   (B)   It is unlawful to intentionally or knowingly poison a domesticated
animal.
   (C)   A person shall not be considered in violation for using common rat or
mouse poisons or insecticides on his or her property if reasonable care is
exercised in restricting a domestic animal’s access to such poisons.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 RESTRAINT.
   (A)   All dogs shall be kept under restraint.
   (B)   All animal owners shall exercise proper care and control of their
animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (C)   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
secure enclosure in such a manner that the female dog or cat cannot come in
contact with another animal except for planned breeding.
   (D)   Every vicious animal, as determined by the Animal Control Commission,
shall be evaluated and given special conditions for the keeping and sheltering
of the animal.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -)
§ 91.06 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide his or her animals with sufficient good
and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection from the weather,
veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, and humane care and
treatment.
   (B)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork,
or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate, or permit any dogfight,
cockfight, bullfight, or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans.
   (C)   No person shall crop a dog’s ears, except when a licensed veterinarian
issues a signed certificate that the operation is necessary for the dog’s
health and comfort, and in no event shall any person, except a licensed
veterinarian, perform the operation.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a
domestic animal shall stop at once and render assistance as may be possible and
shall immediately report the injury or death to the animal’s owner.
      (2)   In the event the owner cannot be ascertained and located, the
operator shall at once report the accident to the appropriate law enforcement
agency.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 ANIMAL WASTE.
   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any
excreta deposited by his or her animal or animals on public walks, recreation
areas, or private property.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
**** DOGS, OTHER PETS ****
§ 91.20 ENTICING DOGS AWAY FROM OWNERS.
   No person shall, with the intention of depriving the owner, keeper, or
person harboring any licensed dog of the possession thereof, entice any
licensed dog away from the premises of the person owning, keeping, or harboring
the dog, nor entice any licensed dog from any street or alley, or public place
of the county.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 COUNTY ANIMAL SHELTER.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county is authorized and empowered
to establish and maintain a county animal shelter for the county to be operated
and governed according to the rules and regulations prescribed by the County
Commissioners.
   (B)   In lieu of operating a county animal shelter, the County Commissioners
may also contract with an independent shelter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -)
§ 91.22 RUNNING AT LARGE; NOTICE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and a nuisance for any owner of
any dog to suffer, allow, or permit the dog to go stray, or run at large.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and a nuisance for any owner of
any dog, under any circumstances and regardless of whether the dog is under the
control of the owner or another person to suffer, allow, or permit the dog to
commit any nuisance act upon property not the property of the owner.
   (C)   This section shall also apply to any feral cat.
   (D)   Any owner found violating or alleged to have violated any provision of
this section may be served with an animal control violation notice. The animal
control violation notice shall cite the owner to be and appear in the
appropriate court at the hour and date specified in the notice and to answer
the complaint of the violation. The animal control violation notice shall be in
a form that may be prescribed by the Commissioners and may be served on the
owner by the animal control officer, any police officer, or some other
deputized official of the county in any of the following ways:
      (1)   Delivering the notice to the owner personally;
      (2)   Delivering and leaving the notice to and at the owner’s dwelling
house or usual place of abode; or
      (3)   Sending the notice by U.S. certified mail addressed to the owner at
his or her dwelling house, usual place of abode, or place of business or
employment with return receipt requested and returned showing receipt of
notice.
   (E)   Any owner failing to so appear in the appropriate court at the time
specified in the notice shall be apprehended and arrested on warrant and
brought before the court to answer the complaint.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Unrestrained dogs and nuisance animals shall be taken by the police or
animal control officers and impounded in an animal shelter and there confined
in a humane manner.
   (B)   If, by a license tag or other means, the owner of an impounded animal
can be identified, the animal control officer shall immediately upon
impoundment notify the owner by telephone or mail.
   (C)   Any owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay to the sheltering
agency a reasonable fee for the care and keeping of the animal.
   (D)   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within seven working days shall
become the property of the animal shelter for disposition at their discretion.
   (E)   In addition to or in lieu of impoundment an animal found at large, the
animal control officer or police officer may issue to the known owner of the
animal a notice of ordinance violation.
   (F)   The owner of an impounded animal may also be proceeded against for
violation of this chapter.
   (G)   Temporary impoundment of livestock by order of the court having
jurisdiction shall be subject to the county impoundment bond schedule and
procedure (see division (I) below).
   (H)   Temporary impoundment of vicious animals by animal control or
Sheriff’s Deputies with probable cause shall be subject to the county
impoundment bond schedule and procedure (see division (I) below) and reviewed
by the County Animal Control Commission.
   (I)   (1)   Animal(s) may be seized and impounded by the County Sheriff’s
office for the following reasons, in conjunction with the following state laws
and code sections:
         (a)   Abandonment, I.C. 35-46-3-7;
         (b)   Neglect, I.C. 35-46-3-7;
         (c)   Failure to restrain dog, I.C. 15-20-1-4;
         (d)   Failure to provide care, §
91.06;
         (e)   Repeatedly running at large, §
91.22; and/or
         (f)   Public nuisance, §
91.05.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-46-3-6, the owner or owners have certain
obligations. The owner of an animal that has been impounded under this section
may prevent disposition of the animal by an animal shelter that is caring for
the animal by posting, not later than ten days after the animal has been
impounded, a bond with the court in an amount sufficient to provide for the
animal’s care and keeping for at least 30 days, beginning from the date the
animal was impounded. The owner may renew a bond by posting a new bond, in an
amount sufficient to provide for the animal’s care and keeping for at least an
additional 30 days, not later than ten days after the expiration of the period
for which a previous bond was posted. If a bond expires and is not renewed, the
animal shelter may determine disposition of the animal, subject to court order.
If the owner of an animal impounded under this section is convicted of an
offense under this chapter or I.C. 15-20-1-4, the owner shall reimburse the
animal shelter for the expense of the animal’s care and keeping. If the owner
has paid a bond under divisions (I)(2)(a) through (I)(2)(d) below, the animal
shelter may euthanize an animal if a veterinarian determines that an animal is
suffering extreme pain.
         (a)   Horses, cattle, livestock: $300 per animal per 30-day period.
         (b)   Dogs: $300 per animal per 30-day period.
         (c)   Cats: $150 per animal per 30-day period.
         (d)   Other animals not listed: $100 per animal per 30-day period.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 CONFINEMENT.
   No owner, keeper, custodian, or person harboring any dog shall allow the dog
to run at large during the prevalence of hydrophobia when the County Health
Officer has issued a proclamation requiring the confining or muzzling of dogs.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 91.35 ANIMAL CONTROL COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Animal Control Commission shall consist of the County Animal
Control Officer, the County Sheriff, the County Prosecutor or responsible
Deputy Prosecutor, a County Commissioner or his or her appointee, and the
County Attorney.
   (B)   The Animal Control Commission shall meet on an “as needed” basis.
   (C)   In the case of vicious animals, the Animal Control Commission shall
hold a hearing and determine the status of a vicious animal. The Animal Control
Commission may consider all relevant evidence, including reports, witnesses,
and whether the incident indicates if the animal is potentially dangerous in
ordinary situations where the average person could not reasonably be expected
to foresee and take measures to prevent injuries.
   (D)   The Animal Control Commission, in rendering a decision, has the
authority to attach any and all reasonable conditions on the owners regarding
the types of enclosures to be used, the types of restraints systems to be used,
and other such things to ensure the safety of both the public and domestic
animals.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -)
§ 91.36 ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners does now hereby transfer the
position of the Animal Control Warden from the supervision and oversight by the
County Commissioners to the supervision and oversight of the County Sheriff.
   (B)   The position of Animal Control Warden shall be removed from the
incorporation into the County Commissioners budget and inserted and
incorporated into the County Sheriff’s budget.
   (C)   The County Sheriff shall be fully responsible for the hiring,
retention, payment, discipline, discharge, and/or all other related employment
functions of the Animal Control Warden.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 3-18-2005)
§ 91.37 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Animal Control Commission may grant a variance in a particular
case to any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Persons requesting a variance shall make a request for a hearing to
the Animal Control Commission; a hearing will be granted within 30 days of the
date the request was made.
   (C)   The variance shall be granted upon a recommendation of a majority of
the Commission, if, in the opinion of a majority of the Animal Control
Commission, there is no threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of the county.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -)
§ 91.38 PERMIT REQUIRED; COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT, SHELTER.
   No person, partnership, or corporation shall operate a commercial animal
establishment or animal shelter without first obtaining a permit in compliance
with the provisions of applicable laws of the state (I.C.15-5) and ordinances
of the county.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by those persons or
agencies designated by county authority. It shall be a violation of this
chapter to interfere with an animal control officer in the performance of his
or her duties.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found violating any provision of this chapter, except
as noted below, shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance violation and shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500. If any violation
continues, each day’s violation shall be deemed a separate violation.
      (2)   (a)   Any person violating §
91.22 shall be deemed guilty of a chapter violation and shall be punished by a
fine based upon the following considerations and schedule:
            1.   For an unaltered animal, the fine for a first time violation
shall be $45; the amount of the fine shall increase $45 for each subsequent
violation up to a maximum of $270 for a sixth or subsequent infraction; and
            2.   For an altered animal, the fine for a first time violation
shall be $15; the amount of the fine shall increase $15 for each subsequent
infraction.
         (b)   The above stated fine schedule shall be imposed in addition to
the assessment of court costs as may be established from time to time by the
State General Assembly or by court rules.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination
   
92.05   Interference, coercion, intimidation
   
92.06   Exemptions
   
92.07   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04 and
92.05, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. A single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of such
family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS. Also, pursuant to 24 C.F.R.
part 5, the definition of FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of
the actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status
of its members.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; and/
or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C.22-9-1-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (see I.C.
22-9-1-3); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (see I.C. 22-9-1-3).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
92.06, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04(A) shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
92.04(A) shall apply to:
         (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(A)(3), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and
92.06, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with the person.
      (8)   For purposes of this division (A), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   a.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
                  i.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
                  ii.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and
other environmental controls in accessible locations; and
                  iii.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in
a wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
               b.   Compliance with the appropriate requirement of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and
of the American National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing
accessibility an usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as
ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (H)(8)(c)3.a.iii
above.
               c.   Nothing in this division (A)(8) requires that a dwelling be
made available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat
to the health of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose
business includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
      (2)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
         (a)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
            1.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
            2.   Secured by residential real estate.
         (b)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real
property.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business
of furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors
other than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial
status.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-18-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere
with any person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her
having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or
encouraged any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any, right granted
or protected by §§
92.03 or
92.04(A),
92.04(B), or
92.04(C).
   (B)   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat
of force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
      (1)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
      (2)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (B)(1)
above; or
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in
division (B)(1), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state, and federal law.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-18-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any non-profit institution or organization
operated, supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious
organization, association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or
occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such
persons, unless membership in such religion is restricted on account of race,
color, or national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a
private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its
primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodging to its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this division (C), HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 92.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the county, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the county shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above for purposes of investigation, resolution, and
appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the county, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If bodily injury results due to any citizen engaging in the acts of §
92.05(B)(3) shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than
ten years, or both; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for
any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-18-2013)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Public, Semi-Public Swimming Pools
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Permits
   
93.03   Fees
   
93.04   State law adopted
   
93.05   Water quality, disinfection, filtration
   
93.06   Recordkeeping
   
93.07   Swimming pool safety
   
93.08   Supervision
   
93.09   Right of entry
   
93.10   Inspection report
   
93.11   Closure; conditions for closure; failure to close
   
93.12   Enforcement
   
93.13   Notice
   
93.14   Violations
   
93.15   Private swimming pools
 
   
93.99   Penalty
**** PUBLIC, SEMI-PUBLIC SWIMMING POOLS ****
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. An unobstructed vertical distance through atmosphere between the
water supply inlet and the flood level rim of the receiving unit. An AIR GAP
must be equal to two times the diameter of the water supply outlet or pipe or
six inches, whichever is the shortest distance.
   BEACH. Any natural or artificial waterway or impoundment, which is used for
swimming or wading purposes and is made available to persons other than the
household and guests. BEACH shall also include but not restricted to structures
used as dressing rooms, locker rooms, toilets, showers, and other areas and
enclosures.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed Health Officer of the county or his or
her authorized agent.
   OWNER. The owner of record as found in the County Treasurer’s office or the
owner’s agent.
   OPERATOR. The person responsible for the management of the public bathing
facility.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, corporation,
company, association, trust, estate, or municipality.
   PUBLIC BATHING FACILITY. All public and semi-public swimming pools including
beaches, competition pools, diving pools, spas, swimming pools, wading pools,
water attractions, wave pools, and zero depth pools.
   PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL. Any swimming pool which is intended to be used for
swimming, diving, or recreational bathing and is operated by a concessionaire,
owner, lessee, operator, person, or licensee irrespective of whether a fee is
charged for use. PUBLIC SWIMMING POOLS also include any pool which by some
method restricts access to the pool, such as pools located at apartment
complexes, motels, hotels, tourist homes, condominiums, subdivisions, mobile
home parks, or other such living units as well as clubs, schools, and similar
units.
   SAFETY HAZARD. A condition which may result in injuries, including, but not
limited to, tripping hazards, electrical hazards, and entrapment.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any structure, basin, chamber, or tank containing a body of
water for swimming, diving, or recreational bathing and auxiliary structures
including, but not limited to, disinfection and filtration equipment, dressing
and locker rooms, toilets, showers, furniture and fixtures, playgrounds, and
spectator areas, adjacent to and associated with the POOL, and other areas and
enclosures that are intended for use of persons using the POOL.
   TOURIST HOME. Any structure constructed as a single-family dwelling that is
rented or otherwise contracted for overnight lodging.
   WATER ATTRACTION. A public facility with design and operational features
that provide patron water recreational activity other than or in addition to
wading, swimming, and diving. Types of WATER ATTRACTIONS include:
      (1)   ACTIVITY POOL. A water attraction with a depth of greater than 24
inches designed primarily for play activity that uses constructed features and
devices including, but not limited to, pad walks, flotation devices, and
similar attractions.
      (2)   LEISURE RIVER. A stream of near-constant depth in which the water
is moved by pumps or other means of propulsion to provide a river-like flow
that transports users over a defined path.
      (3)   PLUNGE POOL. A pool with a depth of greater than 24 inches, located
at the exit end of a waterslide flume and intended and designed to receive
slide users emerging from the flume.
      (4)   SPRAY PAD. A specific area consisting of a play surface, spray
features, and drains.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a public bathing facility in the county
without a valid permit from the Health Department. Only persons complying with
the applicable provisions of this subchapter will be entitled to receive and
retain such a permit.
   (B)   The permits shall be issued for one calendar year beginning April 1
and ending March 31 of the next year. Such permit shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at the bathing facility. Such permits are non-negotiable and
non-transferable.
   (C)   The permit application may be denied or revoked when, in the judgment
of the Health Officer, the public bathing facility is not in full compliance
with all requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 FEES.
   (A)   The permit fee for public bathing facilities operating exclusively in
any of the months between May and September shall be set by the County Health
Department fee ordinance.
   (B)   There shall be a permit fee for public bathing facilities operating
beyond the months of May through September per year as determined by the County
Board of Health and provided by the fee ordinance of the Health Department.
   (C)   All permit fees shall be payable on or before April 1 of the
operational year. A $50 late fee for the first day will be imposed for fees
submitted after April 1 of the operational year.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.04 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   All public swimming pools operated in the county shall comply with the
requirements of:
   (A)   410 I.A.C. 6-2.1;
   (B)   675 I.A.C. 20-1.1;
   (C)   675 I.A.C. 20-2;
   (D)   The Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act and the amendments
thereto; and
   (E)   I.C. 16-20-1-26.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.05 WATER QUALITY, DISINFECTION, FILTRATION.
   (A)   Public bathing facilities, other than beaches, when open for use,
shall be continuously disinfected and filtered. When chlorine is used for
disinfection a free residual equal to the requirements of 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1-30
(b) shall be maintained throughout the public bathing facility. If other
disinfecting agents are used, residuals of equivalent strength shall be
maintained. Whenever the residual disinfection concentration falls below the
minimum requirement the swimming pool shall be cleared and kept free of bathers
until that minimum concentration has been restored.
   (B)   Operators of public bathing facilities, other than beaches, shall
arrange for the collection and bacteriological examination by a state-approved
laboratory of at least one sample of the water in the public bathing facility
per week. The results of the weekly samples must be made known to the Health
Department by the last business day of the applicable week. Such sampling shall
begin at least one week prior to the opening of the pool. No public bathing
facility shall open until a water sample meeting the criteria set forth in 410
I.A.C. 6-2.1-31(g) has been submitted. Failure to collect and analyze weekly
water samples or failure to report the result of the analysis during the period
the bathing facility is open for use will be considered an unsatisfactory
report for the applicable week.
   (C)   If two consecutive samples or three samples within a six-week period
fail to meet the water quality standards found in 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1-31(g), this
shall constitute grounds for closure.
   (D)   When the pool is closed due to unsatisfactory water quality, the pool
shall not reopen until laboratory testing shows an additional sample from the
pool is satisfactory.
   (E)   The water in a public swimming pool shall have sufficient clarity at
all times so that a black disc, six inches in diameter, is readily visible when
placed on a white background in the deepest area of the swimming pool.
   (F)   Visible debris on the swimming pool bottom and walls shall be removed
every 24 hours or more frequently as required.
   (G)   All components of the filtration/disinfection system shall be properly
maintained.
   (H)   All make up water supply lines shall be protected against backflow/
back siphonage. All wastewater shall be discharged through a suitable air gap.
   (I)   To ensure adequate filtration and disinfection a suitable means to
measure the flow of water through the filtration/disinfection system shall be
provided.
   (J)   The recirculation system within a public or semi-public swimming pool
facility shall be maintained in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The turnover rate for spas shall be once every half hour;
      (2)   For public and semi-public swimming pools, except spas, built
before September 13, 1989, the following turnover rate shall be the lesser of
the following times:
         (a)   Eight hours; and
         (b)   The maximum pool capacity in gallons, divided by the maximum
bather load, divided again by 108 gallons per hour per user.
   (K)   In all other public or semi-public swimming pools built on or after
September 13, 1989, the turnover rate shall be as follows:
 
All other pools         6 hours
Diving pools            12 hours
Competition pools       6 hours
Pools with wading areas 2 hours
Wading pools            1 hour
Wave pools              2 hours
Zero depth pools        2 hours
 
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.06 RECORDKEEPING.
   (A)   Suitable operating records shall be kept to comply with 410 I.A.C. 6-
2.1-38.
   (B)   Operating records shall be kept for a minimum period of two years.
   (C)   Serious injuries and drownings shall be reported to the Health
Department within ten days.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.07 SWIMMING POOL SAFETY.
   (A)   Any swimming pool operated primarily for unorganized use and having an
area of more than 2,000 square feet of water surface area shall be provided
with an elevated lifeguard platform(s) or chair(s). Such lifeguard platforms or
chairs shall be placed in locations which eliminate sun glare and will allow
complete visual coverage of the pool bottom within a field of view no greater
than 45 degrees on either side of a line of site extending straight out from
the chair. In pools with 4,000 square feet or more of water surface area
additional lifeguard platforms or chairs shall be provided to ensure complete
visual coverage of the swimming pool bottom.
   (B)   Not less than one unit of life saving equipment shall be provided at
every public swimming pool. For each additional 2,000 square feet of water
surface area or major fraction thereof, one additional unit of lifesaving
equipment shall be provided. Each unit of lifesaving equipment shall consist of
all of the following:
      (1)   A ring or throwing buoy not more than 20 inches in diameter with
enough weight for accurate throwing fitted with a one-fourth inch diameter line
equal in length to the width of the pool and not to exceed 45 feet in length;
and
      (2)   A life pole, or Shepard’s crook type of pole, having blunt ends
with a minimum length of 12 feet.
   (C)   A spine board with straps and head immobilizer shall be readily
available for each pool enclosure while the pool is open for use, except for
spas and wading pools.
   (D)   Lifesaving equipment shall be mounted in conspicuous places
distributed around the deck and at the lifeguard chairs. It shall be readily
accessible, within 20 feet of the pool, its function plainly marked, and kept
in good repair and ready condition. Bathers or others shall not tamper with or
remove such equipment for any purpose other than the intended emergency use.
   (E)   Every public bathing facility shall be equipped with two blankets and
a readily accessible standard first aid kit complying with 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1-34
(d). The first aid kit shall be kept filled and ready for use.
   (F)   (1)   A properly connected, readily accessible, working telephone must
be located within 200 feet of the public bathing facility.
      (2)   Emergency telephone numbers, or instructions to call 911, must be
posted within the view of any person using said telephone. If the telephone is
not located within the facility enclosure, a suitable sign shall be posted
within the enclosure stating the location.
      (3)   Cellular or portable telephones shall not be used for this purpose.
   (G)   Depth markings shall conform to 675 I.A.C. 20-2.
   (H)   A removable buoyed transition line, anchored at both ends, shall
separate the shallow area defined at five feet or less from the deeper pool
area, except when the pool is being used for organized activities with which
the line would interfere.
   (I)   Public bathing facilities, all disinfection and filtration equipment
and other areas associated with the facility must be maintained free of
defects, safety hazards, and in proper working order.
   (J)   (1)   For facilities operating after dusk and indoor facilities,
lighting should be provided at the facilities to completely illuminate the
pool’s surface area and deck area.
      (2)   In addition, pools with depths exceeding five feet of more should
have under water lighting provide for those areas. Lights must be operable
whenever the swimming pool is open for bathing.
   (K)   Swimming pools shall maintain proper signage as required by 410 I.A.C.
6-2.1.
   (L)   Food and drink may be permitted only in properly segregated designated
snack areas or visitor areas. Food and drink are not allowed on the pool deck
area. Glass containers are prohibited.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.08 SUPERVISION.
   (A)   (1)   The public bathing facility shall be under the supervision of a
capable individual who shall assume responsibility for compliance with this
subchapter and those codes incorporated by reference herein.
      (2)   At least one capable individual shall be on duty whenever the
swimming pool is open. This individual shall be responsible for all facility
operations and must be available to respond within a reasonable amount of time.
   (B)   One or more qualified lifeguards, meeting the qualifications outlined
in 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1-35(a), shall be on duty at pool side at swimming pools
operated primarily for unorganized use and having an area of more than 2,000
square feet of water surface area when the swimming pool is open to bathers. A
sufficient number of lifeguards must be on duty to maintain a patron load of
not more than 75 persons per lifeguard. This shall not apply to swimming pools
with less than 2,000 square feet of water surface area exclusively serving a
motel, apartment complex, condominium, hotel, or similar occupancy which is in
compliance with 410 I.A.C. 6-2-6(h).
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.09 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Health Officer is authorized to conduct such inspections as deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with all provisions of this subchapter and shall
have the right of entry at any reasonable hour to the public bathing facility
for this purpose.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.10 INSPECTION REPORT.
   A written inspection report will be issued at the time of the inspection,
noting any violation found and setting a reasonable amount of time for
correction to be made. A reinspection will be made to ensure compliance and
corrections.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.11 CLOSURE; CONDITIONS FOR CLOSURE; FAILURE TO CLOSE.
   (A)   Public bathing facilities must be closed when any of the following
hazardous conditions occur:
      (1)   The amount of residual disinfectant is less than the minimum amount
specified in 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1-30(b);
      (2)   The microbiological quality of the public bathing facility water is
not in compliance with 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1-31(g) or Sec 1.3.5(J);
      (3)   The bacteriological examination shows positive for one or more
Escherichia Coli organisms per 100 milliliter sample;
      (4)   The clarity of the public bathing facility water does not comply
with the provisions of 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1-30(a);
      (5)   Lifeguards are not on duty as required in Sec 1.3.5(b);
      (6)   The recirculation/disinfection system of the swimming pool is not
functioning properly;
      (7)   The swimming pool is not in compliance with the safety or life
saving/life guarding equipment requirements specified in 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1(34)
and (35);
      (8)   Any condition exists which, in the view of the Health Officer, may
endanger the health, safety, or welfare of persons using the swimming pool;
      (9)   The pool’s main drain grate is missing or broken;
      (10)   A non-solid fecal accident occurs at the swimming pool; and
      (11)   Spa water temperature exceeds 104°F.
   (B)   The operator must close any public bathing facility whenever any of
the hazardous conditions outlined in Sec 1.5.1 occur. Such public bathing
facility shall not be reopened for use until the hazardous condition(s) have
been corrected.
   (C)   If a public bathing facility operator fails to close a public bathing
facility as required by Sec 1.5, the Health Officer may take appropriate action
to ensure the public bathing facility is closed until the hazardous condition
(s) are corrected.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be by the County Health Department.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.13 NOTICE.
   (A)   If the Health Officer determines that there are reasonable grounds for
the belief that there has been a violation of this chapter, or of those
incorporated within, notice of such alleged violation may be given to the
owner, or the owner’s authorized agent, of the public bathing facility.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the violation(s);
      (3)   Set forth a time table for correction of the violation(s); and
      (4)   Include a statement of penalties for non-compliance.
   (C)   Such notice shall be served by one of the following methods:
      (1)   Personal delivery to the owner or agent;
      (2)   Posting such notice in a conspicuous place in or about the public
bathing facility;
      (3)   Registered mail to the owner’s last known address. Registered mail
shall be considered served when a signed receipt is returned to the Health
Department or if the letter is returned refused or unclaimed by the addressee;
and
      (4)   Publication of the notice two times at least one week apart. If
service of the notice is to be made by publication such notice must include all
information required by Sec 1.6.2(b).
   (D)   Notice may also be served by issuing a citation to the responsible
party using the uniform traffic ticket or similar citation form which shall be
issued to him or her.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.14 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall by a violation of this subchapter for any person to operate a
public bathing facility in the county that is not in compliance with this
chapter or those incorporated herein.
   (B)   Such person shall be subject to the procedure and penalties provided
in Section 1.6.4.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.15 PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as applying to a swimming pool
constructed at a single-family dwelling and maintained by an individual for the
sole use of the household and house guests
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §§
93.01 through
93.15 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $50 for the first violation in any
12-month period, with the second violation in any 12-month carrying a civil
penalty of $75 and the third and subsequent violations in any 12-month period
carrying a civil penalty of $100.
      (2)   Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate
violation and a court may assess a monetary civil penalty for each day a
violation exists.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in divisions (A)(1) and (A)
(2) above, §§
93.01 through
93.15 may be enforced pursuant to and any other remedy or action provided by
state law or local ordinance.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-31-2012)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   FOOD MARKETS
      
111.   AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
      
112.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS, BED AND BREAKFAST
      
113.   TATTOO ARTISTS; BODY PIERCING
      
114.   LANDFILL OPERATIONS
CHAPTER 110: FOOD MARKETS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Permits
   
110.03   License; fee; exemption
   
110.04   Minimum sanitation requirements
   
110.05   Sale, examination, condemnation of unwholesome, adulterated,
misbranded food
   
110.06   Disease control
   
110.07   Inspection of food markets
   
110.08   Grading of food markets
   
110.09   Approval of plans
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. Those rural and urban areas which are under the jurisdiction of the
County Health Officer and shall apply to incorporated cities or towns as
provided for under the authority of Chapter 80, Indiana Acts of 1954, and
Chapter 118, Indiana Acts of 1957.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who comes in contact with any utensil or equipment in
which food is prepared or stored, or who is employed in a room or place in
which food is prepared, processed, displayed, or sold.
   FOOD. Includes all articles used for food, drink, confectionery, or
condiment, whether simple, mixed, or compound, and all substances or
ingredients used in the preparation thereof.
   FOOD MARKET. Retail grocery, meat market, poultry market, fish market, fresh
fruit and vegetable market, delicatessen, confectionery, candy kitchen, nut
store, retail bakery store, or any other establishment where food, intended for
human consumption, is produced, manufactured, procured, stored, prepared,
processed, handled, transported, sold, or offered for sale at retail.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer, or his or her authorized
representative.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, or municipality,
or his, hers, or its legal representative or agent.
   UTENSIL. Includes all containers, or any equipment of any kind or nature
with which food comes in contact after delivery to a food market, during
storage, preparation, processing, display, or sale.
(Prior Code, § 8-27-1)
§ 110.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food
market in the county who does not possess a valid permit from the Health
Officer. Such permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place in such food
market.
         (b)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of this
chapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such a permit. The permit for a
food market shall be for a term of one year beginning July 1 and expiring June
30 of the following year and shall be renewed annually.
      (2)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name and
address of the person to whom the permit is granted, the address of the
premises for which the same is issued, and such pertinent data as may be
required by the Health Officer.
   (B)   A separate permit shall be required for each food market operated or
to be operated by any person. A permit issued under this chapter is not
transferable.
   (C)   A permit shall be issued to any person on application after inspection
and approval by the Health Officer; provided, that the food market complies
with all the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No permit or renewal thereof shall be denied or revoke on arbitrary or
capricious grounds.
(Prior Code, § 8-27-2) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 LICENSE; FEE; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   License, license fee.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food market in the
county who does not possess a valid license for the operation of such
establishment. The license shall be for a term of one year beginning July 1 and
expiring June 30 of the following year and shall be renewed annually.
      (2)   Such license shall be provided by the County Health Officer if
there is presented, at his or her office, a valid permit from the Health
Officer, together with a fee of $3 or a fee of $2 if the application for
license is made on or after January 1.
      (3)   A separate license shall be required for each food market operated
or to be operated by any person. A license issued under this chapter is non-
transferable.
Prior Code, § 8-27-3)
   (B)   Exemption. Mobile food markets owned by a person operating a food
market which is licensed under the provisions of this chapter, and possessing a
valid permit from the Health Officer to operate such a food market, shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-27-4) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 MINIMUM SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All food markets shall comply with the minimum sanitation requirements
specified by the State Board of Health as now provided in its regulation HFD 19
or as the same may be hereafter changed or amended. Such regulation and any
changes and amendments thereto which may be hereafter adopted or promulgated
are referenced as if incorporated herein and a part hereof, two copies of which
are on file in the office of the Clerk of the county for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 8-27-5)
§ 110.05 SALE, EXAMINATION, CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED,
MISBRANDED FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell through a food market any
food which is unwholesome, adulterated, or misbranded.
   (B)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Officer as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from contamination,
adulteration, or misbranding. The Health Officer may, on written notice to the
owner or operator, impound and forbid the sale of any food which is
unwholesome, adulterated, or misbranded; or which he or she has probable cause
to believe is unfit for human consumption, unwholesome, adulterated, or
misbranded. Provided, that in the case of misbranding which can be corrected by
proper labeling, such food may be released to the operator for correct labeling
under the supervision of the Health Officer. The Health Officer may also cause
to be removed or destroyed any dairy product, meat, meat product, seafood,
poultry, poultry product, confectionery, bakery product, vegetable, fruit, or
other perishable articles which, in his or her opinion, are unsound, or contain
any filthy, decomposed, or putrid substance, or that may be poisonous or
deleterious or otherwise unsafe.
(Prior Code, § 8-27-6) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 DISEASE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person who is affected with any disease in a communicable form or
is a carrier of such disease shall work in any food market; and no food market
shall employ any such person any person believed to be affected with any
disease in a communicable form or of being a carrier of such disease. If the
food market manager has reason to believe that any employee has contracted any
disease in a communicable form or has become a carrier of such disease, he or
she shall notify the Health Officer immediately.
   (B)   When the Health Officer has reason to believe there exists a
possibility of transmission of infection from any food market employee, the
Health Officer is authorized to require any of the following measures:
      (1)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all food markets;
      (2)   The immediate closing of the food market concerned until no further
danger of disease outbreak exists in the opinion of the Health Officer; and
      (3)   Adequate medical examination of the employee and of his or her
associates with such laboratory examinations as may be indicated.
(Prior Code, § 8-27-7)
§ 110.07 INSPECTION OF FOOD MARKETS.
   (A)   Frequency of inspection. At least once each three months, the Health
Officer shall inspect each food market for which a permit is required under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Procedure when violations noted. If, during the inspection of any food
market, the Health Officer discovers the violation of any of the requirements
set forth in §
110.06, he or she shall issue a written order listing such violations to the
proprietor or, in his or her absence, to the person in charge, and fixing a
time within which the said proprietor of said food market shall abate and
remedy such violations. A copy of the written order shall be filed with the
records of the Health Department.
   (C)   Authority to inspect and to copy records. The person operating the
food market shall, upon the request of the Health Officer, permit such Health
Officer or his or her authorized representative access to all parts of such
food market and shall permit the Health Officer or his or her authorized
representative to collect evidence and/or exhibits and to copy any or all
records relative to the enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   Final inspection, prosecution, or hearing for violators. If upon a
second and final inspection the Health Officer finds that such food market,
person, or employee is violating any of the provisions of this chapter which
were in violation on the previous inspection, and concerning which a written
order was issued, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of the violation to
the Prosecuting Attorney having jurisdiction in the area in which the violation
occurs. The said Prosecuting Attorney shall prosecute all persons violating
said provisions of this chapter; or the Health Officer may promptly issue a
written order to the permittee of such food market to appear at a certain time,
not later than ten days from the date of final inspection, at a place in said
county fixed in said order, to show cause why the permit issued under the
provisions of this chapter should not be revoked.
   (E)   Revocation of permit. The Health Officer, upon such hearing, if the
permittee should fail to show cause, shall revoke said permit and promptly give
written notice of such action to the permittee. The Health Officer shall
maintain a permanent record of his or her proceedings filed in the office of
the Health Department.
   (F)   Suspension of permit.
      (1)   Any permit issued under this chapter may be temporarily suspended
by the Health Officer without notice or hearing for a period of not to exceed
30 days for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Unsanitary or other conditions which in the Health Officer’s
opinion endangers the public’s health; and
         (b)   Interference with the Health Officer or any of his or her
authorized representatives in the performance of his or her duties.
      (2)   Provided, however, that upon written application from the
permittee, served upon the Health Officer with 15 days after such suspension,
the Health Officer shall conduct a hearing upon the matter after giving at
least five days written notice of the time, place, and purpose thereof to the
suspended permittee. Provided, further, that any such suspension order shall be
issued by the Health Officer in writing and served upon the permittee by
leaving a copy at their usual place of business or by delivery of registered or
certified mail to such address.
   (G)   Reinstatement of permit. Any person whose permit has been suspended
may at any time make application to the Health Officer for reinstatement of his
or her permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-27-8)
§ 110.08 GRADING OF FOOD MARKETS.
   The classification “food market” is established for those food markets which
effectively discharge their responsibilities to protect the public health in
preparing, processing, displaying, handling, and selling food as follows.
   (A)   A food market shall consistently meet the sanitary requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of this chapter, every food market with all of
the requirements for a food market on two consecutive inspections by the Health
Officer, which inspections are separated by at least 30 days, shall be provided
with a placard which may be displayed in said food market.
   (C)   The placard shall remain the property of the Health Officer and shall
be removed by the Health Officer from any food market, the permit of which has
been suspended or revoked. Provided, further, that the Health Officer shall
remove the placard from any food market when said food market fails to meet the
requirements for a food market on two consecutive inspections separated by at
least 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 8-27-9)
§ 110.09 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   All food markets which are hereafter constructed or altered shall conform
with the applicable requirements set forth in this chapter. Properly prepared
plans and specifications shall be submitted to and approved by the Health
Officer as may be required before stating any construction work.
(Prior Code, § 8-27-10)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished for the first offense by a fine of not more than $500, and for the
second offense, and each subsequent offense, by a fine of not more than $1,000.
Each day of operation of a food market in violation of this chapter or after
the expiration of the time limit for abating unsanitary conditions and
completing improvements to abate such conditions and completing improvements to
abate such conditions as ordered by the Health Officer shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-27-11)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
Section
Carnivals
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   License fee
   
111.03   Further provisions
**** CARNIVALS ****
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARNIVAL. Any itinerant or traveling amusement enterprise consisting of two
or more separate shows, attractions, rides, or concessions.
(Prior Code, § 8-29-1) (Ord. 1944-, passed 3-27-1944)
§ 111.02 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The statutes of the state do not fix a license fee for carnivals.
   (B)   (1)   Before a carnival may show in the county, that said carnival
shall report the name and address of the owner or owners and the name and
address of the operator or operators to the Treasurer of said county. It is
further resolved that the owner or owners or the operators or operators shall
pay to the Treasurer of said county the following fees:
         (a)   For the carnival as a whole, $200 per week or fraction thereof;
and
         (b)   For each and every show, ride, exhibition, or concession
connected with said carnival or being a part thereof, $5 per day.
      (2)   Said license fees shall be paid in advance for the full number of
days said carnival will exhibit.
(Prior Code, § 8-29-2) (Ord. 1944-, passed 3-27-1944)
§ 111.03 FURTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff and the County Health
Officer, or such persons as they may appoint, to inspect any and all shows,
exhibitions, or concessions with said carnival at such times as they may deem
advisable; and any objection to any such inspection by any owner or operator
shall be regarded as cause for revoking the permission to exhibit.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to exact a license fee upon any local
fair or exhibition which is wholly conducted by any organization located in the
county, and no assignment of a permit, lease, or title by any traveling
organization shall exempt said show from paying the license fee in §
111.02.
   (C)   The Sheriff of the county be and he or she is hereby ordered and
directed when any carnival attempts to show in the county to make a daily
enumeration of the exact number of separate shows, concessions, attractions,
and rides and reports the result of such enumeration to the Treasurer of the
county, who is hereby ordered and directed to make a computation of the sums
that shall be paid as license fee by such carnival.
   (D)   This chapter shall not be construed as authorizing or attempting to
authorize any violation of the law; and it is further resolved that the Sheriff
of the county, or his or her deputy or deputies, may abate any violation of the
law by any carnival or any unit, or part of any carnival showing or attempting
to show in the county, by any means or methods prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-29-3) (Ord. 1944-, passed 3-27-1944)
CHAPTER 112: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS, BED AND BREAKFAST
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Permits
   
112.03   Permit fees
   
112.04   Inspections
   
112.05   Compliance, enforcement
   
112.06   Appeals
   
112.07   Conflict of interest
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, means an
operator occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to his or her guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. As derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-5-1, means a situation in
which the private financial interest of a county official, a county official’s
spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children, and/or unemancipated child, may
influence the county official’s judgment in the performance of a public duty.
The county official should follow the code of ethics if a code of ethics was
established for the county officials.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local Health Department in the county or
authorized representative having jurisdiction over a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment.
   COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any official of the county.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in I.C. 16-18-2-137, means any building,
room, basement, vehicle of transportation, cellar, or open or enclosed area
occupied or used for handling food. This definition also includes a RETAIL FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24; however, it does not include a BED
AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. As defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24, means a written document that delineates the formal procedures for
following the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point principles developed by
the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The person, appointed as specified in I.C. 16-20-2-16, or
his or her duly authorized representative, as specified in I.C. 16-20, who may
conduct inspections and make a final decision on an enforcement action.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a HEARING OFFICER in proceedings. The HEARING OFFICER is not the
HEALTH OFFICER or any other employee of the County Health Department. (Examples
of HEARING OFFICER could be the County Health Board, a subcommittee of the
County Health Board, a subcommittee of health professionals from the community,
or other non-bias third party appointed by the Health Board.)
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury or illness based on the
number of potential injuries and illnesses and the nature, severity, and
duration of the anticipated injury or illness (for example, sewage backing up
in a food preparation area or contamination of food products with toxic
materials).
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation, or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. As derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9, means a County Health Department
action of particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties,
privileges, immunities, or other legal interests of one or more specific
persons. The term includes a PERMIT.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment.
   PERSON. An association, a corporation, an individual, or partnership, or
other legal entity, government, or governmental subdivision or agency.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 112.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment in the county without first obtaining a
valid permit from the Health Officer. The valid permit must be posted in a
conspicuous location in the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410
I.A.C 7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a
permit.
      (3)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment operated or to be operated by any
person.
      (4)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
      (5)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment
permitted by the County Health Department shall be considered registered as
required in I.C.16-42-l-6.
   (B)   Permit period.
      (1)   A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation, and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
      (2)   A permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for the term
of one continuous operation.
   (C)   Permit content. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit
is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the County Health
Officer.
   (D)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment shall submit to the County Health
Department a written application for a permit on a form provided by the County
Health Department.
   (E)   Content of the application. The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number, and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address, and location of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment is owned by an association, corporation, individual,
partnership, or other legal entity;
      (3)   A statement specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment:
         (a)   If not permanent, is mobile and/or temporary; and
         (b)   The operation includes one or more of the following:
            1.   Prepares, offers for sale, or serves potentially hazardous
food:
               a.   Only to order upon a consumer’s request;
               b.   In advance in quantities based on projected consumer demand
and discards food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency;
               c.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control as specified under 410 I.A.C. 7-24; and
               d.   Prepares acidified foods as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-21-3.
            2.   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps which may include combining
potentially hazardous ingredients, cooking, cooling, reheating, hot or cold
holding, freezing, or thawing;
            3.   Prepares food as specified under division (E)(3)(b)2. above
for delivery to and consumption at a location off the premises of the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment where it is prepared;
            4.   Prepares food as specified under division (E)(3)(b)2. above
for service to a highly susceptible population, as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24;
            5.   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; or
            6.   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food
that is not potentially hazardous.
      (4)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment;;
      (5)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified under this
division (E)(4), such as the zone, district, or regional supervisor;
      (6)   The names, titles, and addresses of:
         (a)   The persons comprising the legal ownership as specified under
division (E)(2) above including the owners and operators; and
         (b)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership.
      (7)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will:
            1.   Comply with this chapter; and
            2.   Allow the County Health Department access to the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment and records as specified in
410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
      (8)   Other information required by the County Health Department. To
qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
         (a)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment;
         (b)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
         (c)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment
and provide required information; and
         (d)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
   (F)   Plan requirements.
      (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed
and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment shall submit to the
County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for review
and approval before:
         (a)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment; or
         (c)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment or food operation if the County Health Department determines
that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance with this
section.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment shall include, the type of operation, type of food
preparation (as specified in Appendix A of the published version of 410 I.A.C.
7-24), and the menu.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
approved by the County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
      (4)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment is built or remodeled in accordance
with the approved plans and specifications and that the establishment is in
compliance with this ordinance, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5.
   (G)   Plan requirements for temporary food establishments. The owner or
other authorized agent of a temporary food establishment shall submit a
temporary food application and appropriate fees to the County Health Department
for each specific festival or event in which the establishment intends to
participate at least seven business days prior to the beginning of the event.
If the temporary food application and appropriate fees are not received by the
County Health Department at least three business days prior to the beginning of
the event, a late fee will be assessed as set by the County Health Department
fee ordinance. Applications not received prior to the beginning of an event
will be denied a permit to operate for that event.
   (H)   Change of ownership. The County Health Department may renew a permit
for an existing bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment, or
may issue a permit to a new owner of an existing bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment after a properly completed application
is submitted, reviewed, and approved, the fees are paid, and an inspection
shows that the establishment is in compliance with this chapter.
   (I)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the County Health Department, the operator in order to retain the permit
shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment at all reasonable
times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the County Health Department including
time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices,
orders, warnings, and other directives issued by the County Health Department
in regard to the operator’s bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment or in response to community emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the County Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment that is conspicuous to consumers.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 5-29-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment in the county who has not paid the
permit fee required to be paid for the operation of such establishment.
      (2)   The fee shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
      (3)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a
bed and breakfast establishment and/or a food establishment shall be set by the
County Board of Health, as provided by the statutes of the state.
(I.C. 16-20-1-27)
      (4)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the
County Health Department.
      (5)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and
breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment operated or to be operated by any person.
   (B)   Exemption from permit fees. An organization that is exempt from the
state gross income tax under I.C. 6-2.1-3-20 through 6-2.1-3-22 and offers food
for sale to the final consumer at an event held for the benefit of the
organization is exempt from the payment of fees. This exemption only applies to
organization(s) that meet the criteria addressed in I.C. 16-42-5-30. The Health
Officer shall be provided, upon request, proof of an organization’s tax
exemption.
   (C)   Late fees.
      (1)   (a)   A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the
operation of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment or
the late fee for failure to renew a permit after the expiration of the permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment shall be
assessed according to the County Health Department fee ordinance as set by the
County Board of Health.
         (b)   A late fee shall be assessed as set by the County Health
Department fee ordinance for failure to apply for a temporary food permit at
least three business days prior to the event.
      (2)   The payment of fees under the County Health Department fee
ordinance is not transferable or refundable.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 5-29-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The County Health Department shall inspect a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment at least once every six months, unless
a system of risk-based inspections is utilized as stated below.
      (2)   The County Health Department may modify the interval between
inspections beyond six months if:
         (a)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is
fully operating under an approved and validated Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point (HACCP) plan(s);
         (b)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is
assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a written risk-based
inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied throughout the
jurisdiction; or
         (c)   The County Health Department contacts the operator to determine
that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The County Health Department shall
periodically inspect throughout its permit period a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells, or serves potentially hazardous food and
may inspect a temporary food establishment that prepares sells or serves
unpackaged, non-potentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as hand washing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, warewashing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal, and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (C)   Performance and risk based inspections. Within the parameters
specified in divisions (A) and (B) above, the County Health Department shall
prioritize and conduct more frequent inspections based upon its assessment of a
bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment’s history of
compliance with this chapter and the bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment’s potential as a vector of foodborne illness by evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-
24, and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or
non-critical;
      (2)   Past performance for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-
15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are non-
critical;
      (3)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be
valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored, or served;
      (5)   The type of operation, including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation, and service;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
   (D)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice.
      (1)   (a)   After the County Health Department presents official
credentials and provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an
inspection, the operator shall allow the County Health Department to determine
if the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is in
compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the establishment, allowing
inspection, and providing information and records specified in this chapter.
         (b)   The County Health Department is entitled to the information and
records according to I.C. 16-42-1-13 and I.C. 16-42-5-23, during the bed and
breakfast establishment’s and/or food establishment’s hours of operation and
other reasonable times.
      (2)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
      (3)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law.
(I.C. 16-20-1-26)
   (E)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the County
Health Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and
the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person in charge, as
required under I.C. 16-20-8.
   (F)   Timely correction of critical violations.
      (1)   Except as specified in division (F)(2) below, an operator shall at
the time of inspection correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410
I.A.C. 7-24, and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and implement corrective actions for a
HACCP plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit.
      (2)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Health Department may
agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator
to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (3)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the County Health Department shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the County Health Department’s records.
   (G)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment.
      (1)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator’s obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
      (2)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment.
      (3)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of
the County Health Department inspection by acknowledgement of receipt.
   (H)   Public information. Except as specified in § 194 (Trade Secrets) of
410 I.A.C. 7-24, the County Health Department shall treat the inspection report
as a public document and shall make it available for disclosure to a person who
requests it as provided in law.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 5-29-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 16-20-8
§ 112.05 COMPLIANCE, ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is
denied, the County Health Department shall provide the applicant with a notice
that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit revocation. The County Health Department may revoke a permit to
operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment for a time
period not to exceed 90 calendar days. If the permit has been revoked in the
past and a clear demonstration of non-compliance is demonstrated by the permit
holder then the permit may be revoked for a longer period of time as determined
by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Permit suspension.
      (1)   The County Health Department may suspend a permit to operate a bed
and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment if it determines through
inspection, or examination of employee, food, records, or other means as
specified in this chapter, that an imminent health hazard exists.
      (2)   A suspension shall not exceed 30 calendar days.
      (3)   The permit may be suspended for a longer period of time as
determined by the Health Officer.
   (D)   Ceasing operation and contacting the County Health Department.
      (1)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment shall immediately discontinue operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist because of an
emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or water
service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, onset of an
apparent foodborne illness outbreak, gross insanitary occurrence or condition,
or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
      (2)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (E)   Resuming operation. If a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment has discontinued operations for the reasons stated above or
otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the County
Health Department before resuming operations.
   (F)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a
permit may not be issued.
   (G)   Enforcement options. The following are options available to County
Health Department for consideration:
      (1)   Establish a process for the issuing of tickets based on violation
of the food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment requirements
(see I.C. 16-42-5-28(g) and I.C. 33-6-3-1 for guidance; see also §
112.06 to ensure that due process is followed);
      (2)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension and/or revocation
of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment permit in
front of the Health Officer (see §
112.06 to ensure that due process is followed);
      (3)   The County Health Officer may issue an “order to abate” based on a
condition that may transmit, generate, or promote disease. Failure on the part
of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement of the
order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the County
Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney (see I.C. 16-20-1-25; see also §
112.06 to ensure that due process is followed);
      (4)   If the action concerning public health is a chapter violation,
request the County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for the enforcement of the chapter violation (see I.C.
34-28-5-1); and
      (5)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense,
request the County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for enforcements (see I.C. 16-20-1-25(c)).
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 5-29-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 16-42-5-28(g)
§ 112.06 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under §§
112.05(G)(1) through
112.05(G)(3) shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a Hearing
Officer by filing an administrative written request therefor with the Health
Officer (Secretary of the County Board of Health, see I.C. 16-20-1-10). The
written request must be mailed or hand delivered to the Health Officer,
Lawrence County Health Department, 2419 Mitchell Road, Bedford, IN 47421 and
must be received within 15 days after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the Hearing Officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days written
notice of the time, place, and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. (A shorter period of time
may be granted if requested by either party and agreed upon.)
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person’s mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the Health Officer.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer establishes the rules of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter his or her final administrative order or determination of this matter in
writing.
   (F)   The administrative order completes the administrative appeals
procedure.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 112.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No county official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner that is or
could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 5-29-2007)
CHAPTER 113: TATTOO ARTISTS; BODY PIERCING
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Prohibitions
   
113.03   Age limitation
   
113.04   Identification
   
113.05   Tattoo, body-piercing operator; establishment training
responsibilities
   
113.06   Operating policies
   
113.07   Dyes, pigments
   
113.08   Work environment
   
113.09   Regulations governing sanitation of mobile tattoo, body piercing
businesses
   
113.10   Temporary tattoo, body piercing establishments
   
113.11   Operator requirements; professional standards
   
113.12   Exemptions
Sanitation
   
113.25   Sanitary operations
   
113.26   General safety, sanitary standards
   
113.27   Illness
   
113.28   Hand washing
   
113.29   Personal protective equipment; operating equipment
   
113.30   Needles
   
113.31   Reusable equipment
   
113.32   Infectious waste containment; treatment, transportation
   
113.33   Post tattoo, body piercing infection prevention
Licensing, Permits
   
113.45   General
   
113.46   License period
   
113.47   License content
   
113.48   Requirements for license
   
113.49   Renewal of license
   
113.50   Late fees
   
113.51   Revocation
   
113.52   Permit requirements
Administration, Records
   
113.65   IOSHA training
   
113.66   Patron records
   
113.67   Access to records and inspections
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTIST. Any person who performs body piercing or tattooing.
   BLOOD. Human blood.
   BLOOD-BORNE PATHOGENS. Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   HBV;
      (2)   HCV; and
      (3)   HIV.
   BODY PIERCING. The perforation of any human body part other than an earlobe
for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration or for some other non-
medical purpose.
   BODY-PIERCING FACILITY. Any place used for the purpose of body piercing.
   BRANDING. The burning of skin.
   CLEANED. Removal of all visible dust, soil, or any other foreign material.
   CONTAMINATED. The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
OPIM (other potentially infectious materials) on an item or surface.
   DECONTAMINATED. The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate,
or destroy blood-borne pathogens on a surface or item which does not require
sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting
infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling,
use, or disposal.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Department of Health. The County Board of Health
shall be considered part of the DEPARTMENT, except for the purpose of
conducting any type of administrative hearing for the appeal of any decision of
the DEPARTMENT or Health Officer.
   HBV. Hepatitis B virus.
   HCV. Hepatitis C virus.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed Health Officer as set forth in I.C. 16-
20-2.
   HIV. The human immunodeficiency virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Waste that epidemiological evidence indicates is capable
of transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes,
but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps;
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biological,
and infectious agent stock;
      (3)   Pathological waste;
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form; and
      (5)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   OPERATOR. Any person who owns, possesses, controls, or has a financial
interest in a body piercing or tattoo parlor.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS OR OPIM. The following:
      (1)   Semen;
      (2)   Vaginal secretions;
      (3)   Cerebrospinal fluid;
      (4)   Synovial fluid;
      (5)   Pleurial fluid;
      (6)   Pericardial fluid;
      (7)   Peritoneal fluid;
      (8)   Amniotic fluid;
      (9)   Saliva in dental procedures;
      (10)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood; and
      (11)   All body fluids where it is difficult or impossible to
differentiate between body fluids.
   PARENTERAL. Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needlesticks, human bites, cuts, or abrasions.
   PERSON. Any person who is a customer of a body-piercing facility or tattoo
parlor.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   SCARIFICATION (SCARRING). Includes, but is not limited to, laying the skin
wide open, via a needle; saturating the area; and the placing of autoclave sand
or other substance into the area to build up a scar.
   SECURE AREA. An area designated and maintained to prevent the entry of
unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS. Blood, blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE. The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endospores.
   STORE. The containment of infectious waste in a secure area, in such a
manner as not to constitute collection, treatment, transport, or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol, or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other instruments;
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure, or symbol done by scarring upon
or under the skin; or
      (3)   Scarring or branding.
   TATTOO PARLOR. Any room or space where tattooing is provided or where
business of tattooing is conducted.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious for HIV,
HBV, HCV, and other blood-borne pathogens.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Operate a business that offers tattooing or body-piercing services,
unless the County Health Department has approved the business, under 410 I.A.C.
1-5;
   (B)   Perform a tattooing or body-piercing procedure, in a manner that does
not meet the safety and sanitation standards established under Rule 5, 410
I.A.C. 1-5; or
   (C)   Perform tattooing or body-piercing procedure in a manner that does not
meet the standards for appropriate disinfection and sterilization of invasive
equipment or parts of equipment used in performing the procedures established
by this chapter, under Rule 5, I.A.C. 1-5.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 AGE LIMITATION.
   No person shall perform a tattooing/body-piercing procedure on an individual
who is under 18 years of age.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No individual who is under age 18 years of age shall knowingly show or
give false information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification
for the purpose of obtaining a tattooing or body-piercing service for himself
or herself.
   (B)   Tattoo/body-piercing parlors should require a birth certificate and
picture ID of an individual receiving tattooing services for their own records
and protection.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 TATTOO, BODY-PIERCING OPERATOR; ESTABLISHMENT TRAINING
RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Training responsibilities. An individual or entity that is a tattoo/
body-piercing operator shall comply with the following training
responsibilities:
      (1)   Ensure that the training described in the State Occupational Safety
and Health Administration’s Blood-borne Pathogens Standard (as found in 20
C.F.R. § 1910.1030) is provided to all tattoo and body-piercing artists, anyone
employed by the tattoo/body-piercing facility, or anyone acting on behalf of
the tattoo/body-piercing facility who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM;
      (2)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is
provided to all tattoo and body-piercing artists, anyone employed by the
tattoo/body-piercing business, or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo/body-
piercing business who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous
membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM; and
      (3)   Ensure that a record of training described in divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(2) above is maintained. The records shall be made available to the
Department for inspection upon request.
   (B)   Operator responsibilities.
      (1)   The tattoo/body-piercing business operator shall ensure that tattoo
and body-piercing artists, anyone employed by the tattoo/body-piercing
business, or anyone employed by the tattoo/body-piercing business, or anyone
acting on behalf of the business who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood are provided
personal protective equipment and expendables needed to implement the
precautions required by this rule and the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s Blood-borne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030).
      (2)   (a)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall display written
materials prepared or approved by the Department explaining universal
precautions and patron’s rights under this division (B).
         (b)   The materials shall include information on how to report
information regarding the Department’s duties to investigate.
      (3)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall ensure that no illicit
drugs or alcohol are consumed in the tattoo/body-piercing parlor.
      (4)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall ensure that no tattoo or
body piercing shall be affixed to or performed on any person who is
intoxicated.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.06 OPERATING POLICIES.
   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall develop a written policy in
compliance with this chapter and the requirements of the State Occupational
Safety and Health Administration’s Blood-Borne Pathogen Standard (as found in
29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030) that:
   (A)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing tattooing,
body piercing, and/or any activity or duty that includes any reasonably
anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or
OPIM;
   (B)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste; and
   (C)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if warranted,
for failure to use universal precautions and/or handle infectious waste safely.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.07 DYES, PIGMENTS.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments in tattooing shall be from professional suppliers
specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used in tattooing procedures, only
non-toxic sterile materials shall be used. Single use or individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean, sterilized containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single use or
individual containers shall be discarded along with the container.
   (D)   (1)   Written instructions shall be given to each patron or customer
on the care of the skin on the tattooed site to prevent infection after each
tattooing.
      (2)   A copy of these instructions shall also be posted in a conspicuous
place in the tattoo establishment, and be clearly visible to the person being
tattooed.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.08 WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   No tattooing or body piercing shall be conducted in any room used as
living quarters or in any room that opens directly into living or sleeping
quarters.
   (B)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where tattooing or body
piercing is being conducted. This exclusion does not apply to:
      (1)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police officers; and
      (2)   Guide dogs accompanying:
         (a)   Blind persons;
         (b)   Partially blind persons;
         (c)   Physically disabled persons;
         (d)   Guide dog trainers; or
         (e)   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (C)   Eating, drinking, smoking, or applying cosmetics shall not be allowed
in work areas where there is a likelihood of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (D)   Food and drink shall not be kept in area where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
decontaminated after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (F)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization that
have been contaminated by blood shall be cleaned and decontaminated.
   (G)   All work surfaces shall be:
      (1)   Non-absorbent;
      (2)   Easily cleanable;
      (3)   Smooth; and
      (4)   Free of:
         (a)   Breaks;
         (b)   Open seams;
         (c)   Cracks;
         (d)   Chips;
         (e)   Pits; and
         (f)   Similar imperfections.
   (H)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   A hospital grade, tuberculocidal Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; or
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite, 0.5% concentration by volume (common household
bleach is 10% concentration in water); the solution shall be dated and shall
not be used if it is more than 24 hours old.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.09 REGULATIONS GOVERNING SANITATION OF MOBILE TATTOO, BODY PIERCING
BUSINESSES.
   In addition to complying with all of the requirements of this chapter,
mobile tattoo/body-piercing vehicles and operators working from the mobile
tattoo and body-piercing establishment shall also comply with all of the
following requirements.
   (A)   (1)   Mobile tattoo and body-piercing businesses are permitted for use
only at special events, lasting calendar days or less. Permits must be obtained
at least 14 days prior to the event, and no tattoo or body-piercing procedures
are to be performed prior to a permit being issued.
      (2)   Permit holders are responsible for ensuring that all other local
agency regulations are complied with, such as, but not limited to, zoning and
business license requirements.
   (B)   Tattoos and/or body piercings performed pursuant to this section shall
be done only from an enclosed vehicle such as a trailer or mobile home, having
an interior floor space of at least 100 square feet. No tattoos or body-
piercing procedures shall be performed outside of the enclosed vehicle.
   (C)   The mobile tattoo/body-piercing business shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition at all times. Doors shall be self-closing and
tight fitting. Operable windows shall have tight-fitting screens.
   (D)   Mobile tattoo/body-piercing business, must have approved sterilization
equipment available, in accordance with all requirements of §
113.31.
   (E)   The mobile tattoo and body-piercing business shall be used only for
the purpose of performing tattoos or body-piercing procedures. No habitation or
cooking is permitted inside the vehicle.
   (F)   (1)   The mobile tattoo and body-piercing business shall be equipped
with an equipment washing sink and a separate hand sink for the exclusive use
of the operator for hand washing and preparing the client for the tattoo or
body-piercing procedures.
      (2)   An adequate supply of potable water shall be maintained for the
mobile tattoo and body-piercing business at all times during operation.
   (G)   (1)   All liquid wastes shall be stored in an adequate storage tank
with a capacity of at least 50% greater than the capacity of the on board
potable water supply.
      (2)   Liquid wastes shall be disposed of at a site approved by the
Department.
   (H)   A hand sink shall be supplied with potable hot and cold running water
under pressure to a mixing type faucet with antimicrobial liquid soap and paper
towels in dispensers.
   (I)   All tattoo/body-piercing operators working in a mobile tattoo/body-
piercing business must comply with the operator requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   No animals, except service animals of clients, shall be allowed in the
mobile tattoo/body-piercing business at any time.
   (K)   (1)   Mobile tattoo/body-piercing businesses must receive an initial
inspection at a location specified by the Department prior to use to ensure
compliance with structural requirements.
      (2)   Additional inspections will be performed at every event where the
mobile tattoo/body-piercing establishment is scheduled to operate.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.10 TEMPORARY TATTOO, BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Temporary tattoo/body-piercing operations are to comply with all aspects of
the provisions relating to temporary permits, health, cleanliness, and personal
hygiene of operators, practices, and procedures for tattoo/body-piercing
establishments and notifications as specified in §§
113.01 through
113.08,
113.32,
113.33, and
113.52.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.11 OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS; PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following information shall be kept on file on the premises of a
tattoo/body-piercing establishment and available for inspection by the
Department;
      (1)   The names of all operators/technicians in the establishment and
their exact duties, including full names, date of birth, gender, home address,
home/work phone numbers, identification photos of all operators/technicians;
      (2)   Establishment name, hours of operation, and the owner’s name and
address;
      (3)   A complete description of all tattoo/body-piercing procedures
performed;
      (4)   An inventory of all instruments and body jewelry, all sharps, and
all inks used for and all tattoo/body-piercing procedures, including names of
manufacturers and serial or lot numbers, if available or applicable; and
      (5)   A copy of this chapter.
   (B)   Permits shall be prominently displayed in the tattoo/body-piercing
establishment and shall not be defaced or altered in any manner.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform tattoo or body-piercing
procedures unless such procedures are performed in a tattoo/body-piercing
establishment with a current permit.
   (D)   The operator must be a minimum of 18 years of age.
   (E)   The operator shall maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness,
conform to hygienic practices and wear clean clothes when performing tattoo or
body-piercing procedures. Before performing tattoos or body piercings, the
operator must thoroughly wash his or her hands in hot running water with liquid
anti-microbial soap, then rinse hands and dry with disposable paper towels.
This shall be done as often as necessary to remove contaminants.
   (F)   In performing tattoos and body-piercing procedures, the operator shall
wear disposable medical gloves. The gloves shall be discarded, at a minimum,
after the completion of each procedure on an individual client.
   (G)   (1)   If, while performing a tattoo or body-piercing procedure, the
operator’s glove is pierced, torn, or otherwise contaminated, the procedures
(in divisions (E) and (F) above) shall be repeated immediately. The
contaminated gloves shall be immediately discarded and the hands washed
thoroughly (see division (E) above) before a fresh pair of gloves are applied.
      (2)   Any item or other instrument used for a tattoo or body piercing,
which is contaminated during the procedure, shall be discarded and replaced
immediately with new ones before the procedure resumes.
   (H)   (1)   Contaminated waste, as defined in this chapter, which may
release liquid blood or body fluids when compressed or may release dried blood
or body fluids when handled must be placed in an approved “red” bag which is
marked with the international biohazard symbol. It must then be disposed of by
a waste hauler approved by the Department.
      (2)   Sharps ready for disposal shall be disposed of in approved sharps
containers.
      (3)   Contaminated waste which does not release liquid blood or body
fluids when compressed or does not release dried blood or body fluids when
handled may be placed in a covered receptacle and disposed of through normal,
approved disposal methods.
      (4)   Storage of contaminated waste on-site shall not exceed the period
specified by the Department or more than a maximum of 30 days.
   (I)   Each tattoo artist and operator should be able to provide the
following information, upon request of the Department, that each tattoo artist
and operator has either completed or been offered and declined, in writing, the
hepatitis B vaccination series; that antibody testing has revealed that the
employee is immune to hepatitis B; or that the vaccine is contraindicated for
medical reasons.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Physicians licensed by the state who utilize tattooing or body-
piercing procedures as part of patient treatment are exempt from these
regulations.
   (B)   Earlobe piercings are exempt.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
**** SANITATION ****
§ 113.25 SANITARY OPERATIONS.
   All places, individuals, and businesses that offer body piercing or affix
any type of permanent tattoo to a person shall be regulated by this chapter and
shall maintain the premises in which tattoos and body piercings are performed,
and maintain equipment used in the tattoo and body-piercing process in a
sanitary manner.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.26 GENERAL SAFETY, SANITARY STANDARDS.
   A business offering tattoo and/or body-piercing services shall comply with
the following provisions.
   (A)   The premises in which tattooing or body piercing is conducted shall
meet state and local building codes and shall consist of an area of at least
100 square feet. The floor space for each individual performing tattoo or body-
piercing services shall be an area of at least 45 square feet. These areas
shall be separated from each other and from waiting patrons or observers by a
panel or by a door. Complete privacy should be available upon a patron’s
request.
   (B)   The entire procedure room and equipment shall be maintained in a
clean, sanitary condition and in good repair.
   (C)   The tattoo/body-piercing business shall be equipped with artificial
light sources equivalent to at least 20 foot-candles at a distance of 30 inches
above the floor throughout the establishment. A minimum of 40 foot-candles of
light shall be provided at a level where the tattooing/body piercing is being
performed. Spotlighting may be used to achieve this required degree of
illumination.
   (D)   All floors directly under equipment used for tattooing and body-
piercing activities shall be of an impervious, smooth, washable surface, have a
minimum dimension of six feet by six feet, and shall be maintained in a
sanitary manner at all times. All walls shall be maintained in a sanitary
manner.
   (E)   All tables and other equipment shall be constructed of easily
cleanable material, with a smooth, washable finish.
   (F)   (1)   Restroom facilities shall be made available to the employees and
customers of the business and must be located within the establishment.
      (2)   The restroom shall be accessible at all times the business is open
for operation.
      (3)   The restroom shall be equipped with a toilet, toilet paper, and
lavatory supplied with potable hot and cold running water, soap, and disposable
towels. Equipment and supplies used in the course of tattoo and body-piercing
services or disinfection and sterilization procedures shall not be stored or
utilized in the restroom.
   (G)   A lavatory or hand washing sink, with potable hot and cold running
water, soap, and disposable towels shall be located in close proximity of each
individual performing a tattoo or body piercing procedure.
   (H)   There shall be no overhead or otherwise exposed sewage lines so as to
create a potential hazard to the sanitary environment of the business.
   (I)   Gloves must be worn during all tattooing and body-piercing procedures.
   (J)   Clean dressing must be applied after completion of each tattoo.
   (K)   Prior to tattooing and body piercing, the operator who will be
performing the procedure shall inquire of a patron for conditions that could
affect the healing process. The operator shall not perform a tattoo or body
piercing on patrons indicating the presence of such a condition without
documentation from a licensed physician, indicating acceptance of the patient
for appropriate care following the procedure.
   (L)   With respect to tattooing services, written records must be
maintained, which include the professional tattooing ink for each tattoo
performed.
   (M)   Comply with the safety and sanitation requirements for preventing
transmission of infectious diseases, as established in Rule 5, 410 I.A.C. 1-5.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.27 ILLNESS.
   Anyone employed by a tattoo/body-piercing parlor or acting in behalf of the
establishment who is experiencing symptoms of acute disease that include, but
are not limited to, what is listed below shall refrain from providing tattoos
or body piercing:
   (A)   Diarrhea;
   (B)   Vomiting;
   (C)   Fever;
   (D)   Potentially infectious rash;
   (E)   Productive cough;
   (F)   Jaundice; or
   (G)   Draining (or open) skin infections, boils, impetigo, or scabies.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.28 HAND WASHING.
   (A)   Hand washing facilities shall be readily accessible in the same room
where tattooing and body piercing are provided.
   (B)   Hands shall be washed with soap and potable hot and cold running water
immediately before putting on sterile gloves and after removal of gloves or
other personal protective equipment.
   (C)   Only single-use towels shall be used.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.29 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT; OPERATING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Personal protective equipment. Appropriate personal protective
equipment shall be worn as follows.
      (1)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM.
      (2)   Masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles
or glasses with solid side shield, or chin length face shield, shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter, or droplets of blood can be reasonably
anticipated.
      (3)   Disposable gloves shall be worn during the tattooing and body-
piercing process. Gloves shall be changed and properly disposed of each time
there is an interruption in the application of a tattoo or body piercing, when
the gloves become torn or punctured, or whenever the ability to function as a
barrier is compromised. Disposable gloves shall not be reused.
      (4)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces
and equipment.
   (B)   Tattooing, body-piercing equipment.
      (1)   Only single-use razors shall be used to shave the are to be
tattooed, or body part to be pierced. Single-use razors shall be discarded in
sharps containers immediately after use.
      (2)   The stencil for transferring a design to the skin is to be single-
use only, and shall be properly disposed of after a single use.
      (3)   After shaving the area to be tattooed or pierced, or if the area
does not need to be shaved, the site of the tattoo or piercing shall be cleaned
with soap and warm water, rinsed with clean water and a germicidal solution
applied in a sanitary manner before piercing, or before a design is placed on
the skin for use during tattooing. Other sterile, individual towels or gauze
shall be used in preparing the site to be tattooed or pierced, and properly
disposed of after use on each patron.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.30 NEEDLES.
   (A)   Needles shall be packaged and sterilized prior to use, for each tattoo
or body piercing.
   (B)   Needles shall be single use only.
   (C)   Needles shall be discarded in sharps containers immediately after use.
   (D)   Contaminated needles shall not be bent or broken or otherwise
manipulated by hand.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.31 REUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Autoclave sterilization must be used when heat stable, non-disposable
equipment is sterilized.
   (B)   Records must be maintained to document:
      (1)   Duration of sterilization technique;
      (2)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a biological
indicator, including spores, is performed monthly; and
      (3)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner’s manual and
proof is available that the owner’s manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
   (C)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in a
manner that requires any person to reach by hand into the containers where the
sharp items have been placed.
   (D)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be:
      (1)   Placed in puncture-resistant containers;
      (2)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol;
      (3)   Leak-proof on both sides and bottom; and
      (4)   Stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into the
container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to sterilization.
   (E)   Contaminated reusable equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior to
sterilization.
   (F)   Reusable tubes shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized before
reuse.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.32 INFECTIOUS WASTE CONTAINMENT; TREATMENT, TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Infectious waste containment.
      (1)   Contaminated disposable needles or sharp instruments shall be
stored in leak-resistant, puncture-resistant containers, tightly sealed to
prevent expulsion, labeled with the biohazard symbol, and effectively treated
in accordance with this rule prior to being stored in an unsecured area and
sent for final disposal.
      (2)   Infectious wastes other than contaminated sharps or objects that
could potentially become contaminated sharps shall be placed in bags that meet
the following requirements:
         (a)   Impervious to moisture;
         (b)   Sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
         (c)   Secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
         (d)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
         (e)   Effectively treated in accordance with this rule prior to being
placed in an unsecured area and sent for final disposal.
      (3)   If infectious waste is stored prior to final disposal, all persons
subject to this rule shall store infectious waste in a secure area that:
         (a)   Is locked or otherwise secured to eliminate access by or
exposure to the general public;
         (b)   Afforded protection from adverse environmental conditions and
vermin; and
         (c)   Has a prominently displayed biohazard symbol.
      (4)   Infectious waste shall be stored in a manner that preserves the
integrity of the container, and is not conducive to rapid microbial growth and
putrefaction.
      (5)   Reusable containers must be disinfected against infectious waste
each time that they are emptied, unless the surfaces of the reusable containers
have been protected from contamination by disposable liners, bags, or other
devices that are removed with the infectious waste.
   (B)   Treatment, transportation of infectious waste.
      (1)   All tattoo/body-piercing operators shall ensure that infectious
waste is either treated on-site in accordance with this rule, or transported
off-site for treatment in accordance with this rule.
      (2)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities of
infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste
involved, and is carried out in a manner consistent with this rule. Effective
treatment may include:
         (a)   Incineration in an incinerator designed to accommodate
infectious waste;
         (b)   Steam sterilization;
         (c)   Chemical disinfecting under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
         (d)   Thermal inactive;
         (e)   Irradiation; or
         (f)   Discharge in a sanitary sewer or septic system that is properly
installed and operating in accordance with state and local laws.
      (3)   All persons subject to this rule shall:
         (a)   Transport infectious waste in a manner that reasonably protects
waste haulers and the public from contracting a dangerous communicable disease;
and
         (b)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this rule
before it is compacted.
      (4)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall ensure that infectious,
effectively treated or not, is transported off-site in compliance with 410
I.A.C. 1-3.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.33 POST TATTOO, BODY PIERCING INFECTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Each tattoo/body-piercing business is to provide instruction to its
clients in methods to prevent infection, such as the use of bactericidal creams
and ointments and soap, and appropriate barrier dressings where indicated.
   (B)   Each client should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention
should there be any evidence of infection.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
**** LICENSING, PERMITS ****
§ 113.45 GENERAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to perform tattooing and/or
body piercing upon any person within the county without possessing a current
and valid artist license issued by the County Health Department.
   (B)   The artist license shall be prominently displayed in the tattoo/body-
piercing establishment and/or mobile tattoo/body-piercing establishment and
shall not be defaced or altered in any manner.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 7-31-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.46 LICENSE PERIOD.
   An artist license shall be issued for a term beginning January 1 and/or
before commencement of operation, and expiring December 31 of the same year and
shall be applied for by the artist annually.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 113.47 LICENSE CONTENT.
   An artist license issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
   (A)   Name of the artist;
   (B)   Whether the artist has a “regular” or “temporary” status; and
   (C)   The issuance and expiration date(s).
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 113.48 REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Regular artist license. An applicant applying for a regular artist
license shall submit to the Department proof that the artist:
      (1)   Is at a minimum of 18 years of age;
      (2)   Has successfully completed training described in the Indiana
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Blood-Borne Pathogens Standard
(20 C.F.R. § 1910.1030); and
      (3)   Has passed a written exam administered by the County Health
Department with a passing grade of 70% or better, and:
         (a)   Has successfully worked at a permitted tattoo/body-piercing
establishment in the county with a temporary license for a period of not less
than six months under the supervision of an artist that holds a valid regular
artist license; or
         (b)   Has worked in a licensed tattoo and/or body piercing
establishment for a minimum of two years. Proof must be submitted to the
Department and may include a copy of establishment license, tax records, or
other similar documents. The Health Officer shall have final approval on other
forms of documentation submitted as evidence or proof.
   (B)   Temporary license. An applicant applying for a temporary license shall
submit to the Department proof that the artist:
      (1)   Is at a minimum of 18 years of age;
      (2)   Has successfully completed training described in the Indiana
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Blood-Borne Pathogens Standard
(20 C.F.R. § 1910.1030); and
      (3)   Will work under the direct supervision of an artist with a valid
regular artist license.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 113.49 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year. Applications for
renewal of a license shall be submitted on the form provided by the Department
before December 31 of each year. Failure to renew an artist license can cause
the tattoo/body-piercing establishment to have its permit suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 113.50 LATE FEES.
   (A)   A late fee shall be assessed as set by the County Health Department
for failure to acquire a permit or artist license prior to the operation of a
tattoo/body-piercing establishment and/or mobile tattoo/body-piercing
establishment.
   (B)   A late fee shall be assessed as set by the County Health Department
for failure to renew a permit or artist license within 30 days after its
expiration date.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 113.51 REVOCATION.
   The Health Officer may suspend or revoke the permit of any tattoo/body-
piercing business for any period of time for any violation of this chapter/
state or federal regulations concerning blood-borne pathogens, tattoo, body-
piercing, or work place regulations (IOSHA). The suspension and/or revocation
shall be effective upon issuance of the Health Officer. The establishment may
have the permit reinstated upon compliance and to the satisfaction of the
Health Officer. Appeals of orders of revocation shall be conducted pursuant to
I.C. 4-21.5-3-1 et seq. The Board of Health shall conduct administrative
hearings concerning the suspension or revocation of any permit issued herein as
set forth in I.C. 4-21.5-3 et seq.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002; Ord. 2012-5, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 113.52 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permanent establishment permit.
      (1)   No person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, business
trust, corporation, or any organized group of persons may operate a tattoo/
body-piercing establishment unless it has received a tattoo/body-piercing
establishment permit from the Department.
      (2)   Any person operating a tattoo/body-piercing establishment shall
obtain a permit from the Department, annually, with beginning/ending permit
time frames and fees to be set by the Department.
      (3)   The applicant shall pay a fee as set by the Department’s fee
ordinance, for each tattoo/body-piercing establishment permit.
      (4)   A tattoo/body-piercing establishment permit shall not be
transferable from one place or person to another.
      (5)   A current tattoo/body-piercing establishment permit shall be posted
in a prominent and conspicuous area where clients may readily observe it.
   (B)   Temporary establishment permit. Temporary establishment permits may be
issued for tattoo/body-piercing services provided outside of the physical site
of a certified facility for the purposes of product demonstrations, industry
trade shows, or for educational reasons.
      (1)   Temporary establishment permits will not be issued unless:
         (a)   The applicant is currently affiliated with a fixed location of
permanent facility which, where applicable, is permitted by the appropriate
state and/or local jurisdiction; and
         (b)   The temporary site complies with temporary establishment
requirements of this regulation.
      (2)   Temporary establishment permits expire after 14 days, or the
conclusion of the special event, whichever is less.
      (3)   Temporary establishment permit will not be issued unless the
applicant has paid the annual permit fee as set by the Department’s fee
ordinance.
      (4)   (a)   Temporary establishment permits must be obtained prior to
each temporary event held in this county.
         (b)   Fees are not assessed for temporary establishment permits once
an annual permit fee is paid for the calendar year.
      (5)   The temporary establishment permit shall not be transferable from
one place or person to another.
      (6)   The temporary establishment permit shall be posted in a prominent
and conspicuous area where patrons may readily observe them.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
**** ADMINISTRATION, RECORDS ****
§ 113.65 IOSHA TRAINING.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the tattoo/body-piercing parlor to assure
that anyone employed by the establishment, and anyone acting on behalf of the
tattoo/body-piercing parlor, who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin,
eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM shall complete
the training program that is required under the requirements of the State
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Blood-Borne Pathogen Standard
(as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030). The programs under this section shall be
as follows:
      (1)   A blood-borne pathogen training session provided by the tattoo/
body-piercing operator meeting the requirements under the Indiana Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (IOSHA) (as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030).
      (2)   Any blood-borne pathogen continuing education program accredited by
a health care licensing entity.
   (B)   Anyone employed by the tattoo/body-piercing parlor or acting on behalf
of the tattoo/body-piercing parlor who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM must be
trained in the tattoo/body-piercing parlor’s policies on the handling of
infectious waste.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.66 PATRON RECORDS.
   Records of each patron shall be maintained for two years. The record shall
include:
   (A)   Patron’s name;
   (B)   Address;
   (C)   Age: must be verified by one photo identification item or two non-
photo identification items;
   (D)   Date tattooing or body-piercing was performed;
   (E)   Design of the tattoo;
   (F)   Location of the tattoo or piercing on the patron’s body;
   (G)   Name and description of decorative implement or other implement placed
into the pierced body area; and
   (H)   The name of the tattoo/body-piercing artist who performed on any minor
as permitted by law.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
§ 113.67 ACCESS TO RECORDS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The County Health Department, or a designated representative thereof,
may inspect the premises of any tattoo parlor or body-piercing facility a
minimum of two times per year at any time the facility is open for business
and, upon notice, at other times as may be arranged by agreement to determine
compliance with this chapter and any other applicable health codes or
standards.
   (B)   All records, manuals, certifications, and other documents required to
be kept in accordance to this chapter shall be subject to inspection by the
County Health Department or a designated representative thereof at any time the
tattoo parlor or body-piercing facility is open for business and, upon notice,
at such other times as may be arranged by agreement.
   (C)   The results of each inspection shall be provided to each operator.
Violations noted by the Health Department shall be corrected immediately. The
Department shall conduct follow-up inspections to determine compliance with
this chapter.
   (D)   The County Health Officer may bring an action in the Circuit or
Superior Court to enforce this chapter. The Health Officer shall be entitled to
recover all costs and expenses associated with any action for enforcement of
this chapter including reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed - -2002)
CHAPTER 114: LANDFILL OPERATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Fees
   
114.02   Usage
   
114.03   Landfill operator
   
114.04   Collection of fees
   
114.05   Commercial trash haulers
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Residents of the county may dump refuse in the landfill free of
charge as long as said refuse and trash (except wrecked buildings) was their
personal property and not that of another.
      (2)   Commercial trash haulers and other businesses must pay for the
dumping of refuse in the county landfill in accordance with the following
schedule:
         (a)   Pick-up trucks and two-wheel trailers: $3;
         (b)   One-ton trucks: $5;
         (c)   One- to two-ton trucks and pick-up trucks: $10;
         (d)   Tandem open trucks and larger: $15;
         (e)   Roll off dumpsters: $25;
         (f)   Semi-trailer trucks: $30; and
         (g)   Compactors (private, public, or school): $1.75 per cubic yard.
   (B)   All individuals must pay in accordance with the above rates for the
dumping of wrecked buildings, regardless if they are a private, individual, or
commercial trash hauler or business. Use of the term TIPPING FEES is used to
mean “use charge” as that same term is used in other state counties. This does
not mean a “tip” as the common term signifying a gratuity charge denotes.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 1985-, passed 1-22-1985)
§ 114.02 USAGE.
   No persons, businesses, or corporations may use the county landfill for the
dumping of solid waste, including, but not limited to, industrial or
manufactured bi-products, except as permissions might be granted therefor by
the Board of Commissioners of the county with prior permission therefor having
been obtained by the State Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 1985-, passed 1-22-1985) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 LANDFILL OPERATOR.
   The individual designated by the Board of Commissioners of the county as the
landfill operator can refuse to allow any load be dumped in the county landfill
which he or she feels would constitute a hazard by incompatibility with the
landfill techniques being used, or constitute an excessive burden upon the
landfill.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 1985-, passed 1-22-1985)
§ 114.04 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   The Auditor of the county is hereby empowered to make the necessary
arrangements to collect all fees for dumping at the county landfill and all
fees are to be paid to him or her directly at the Auditor’s office in the
Courthouse, in Bedford, Indiana, and not at the landfill site itself.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 1985-, passed 1-22-1985)
§ 114.05 COMMERCIAL TRASH HAULERS.
   Any commercial trash hauler or business who would have to pay a fee for
dumping at the county landfill under the terms of this chapter shall not dump
any trash at any of the portable dumpster sites maintained by the Board of
Commissioners of the county in and around the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 1985-, passed 1-22-1985) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity found to have violated
any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a civil fine and penalty in
the amount of $50.
(Res. passed 6-1-1993)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
General provisions
   
130.01   Use of alcohol at County Courthouse
   
130.02   Loitering
   
130.03   Curfew at County Courthouse
Firearms
   
130.15   Use of firearms at County Courthouse
Sale, Use, Possession of Synthetic Cannabinoid
   
130.30   Definition
   
130.31   Sale
   
130.32   Enforcement
   
130.33   Defenses
 
   
130.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 130.01 USE OF ALCOHOL AT COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   No person shall use, consume, or dispose of alcoholic beverages and/or the
containers or bottles in which the same are or were kept upon the premises of
the Courthouse, the Courthouse square, the Courthouse annex, the County
Detention center, or the environs thereof.
(Res. passed 6-1-1993) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 LOITERING.
   No personal shall loiter about the roads, streets, alleys, railroad
stations, or any other public places or places of public resort of the county,
nor shall congregate in such places in such a manner as to interfere with or
disturb other persons in their lawful activities upon said premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-24-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW AT COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   There shall be a curfew placed upon any persons being on the County
Courthouse grounds between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. each day.
   (B)   The Courthouse grounds shall include all of the property in and about
the Courthouse extending to but not including the sidewalk bordering the
Courthouse square.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners of the county may waive the restrictions of
this chapter upon request for special circumstances and it shall not apply to
any county officials or employees, or visitors to their offices, while
conducting county business.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-2) (Ord. 1982-2, passed 7-19-1982)
**** FIREARMS ****
§ 130.15 USE OF FIREARMS AT COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      WEAPON.
         (a)   Includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:
            1.   Club;
            2.   Deadly weapon, as defined by I.C. 35-41-1-9;
            3.   Firearm, as defined by I.C. 35-47-1-5;
            4.   Electric stun weapon, as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-1;
            5.   EXPLOSIVE refers to any agent or substance tending or serving
to explode. EXPLOSIVE shall include, but not be limited to, gunpowder and
dynamite;
            6.   Knife;
            7.   Stun gun, as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-2; and
            8.   Taser, as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-3.
         (b)   WEAPON shall also include any other object that in the manner in
which it is used, or could ordinarily be used, or is intended to be used, is
readily capable of causing SERIOUS BODILY INJURY (as defined by I.C. 35-41-1-
25) as determined by the County Sheriff’s officers.
   (B)   Restrictions. Except as provided in division (C) below, a person shall
not possess on or about his or her person a weapon within the County Courthouse
and Courthouse Plaza.
   (C)   Exceptions. The following persons are exempt from this section: law
enforcement officers under I.C. 35-41-1-17, the State Department of Correction
officers, community correction officers, judicial officers, and probation
officers who are in the Courthouse for official business and duly authorized to
carry deadly weapons. Employees of the Courthouse who carry chemical spray
devices for personal protection are also exempt. The persons described as
exempt from this division (C) shall not be exempt if they or any member of
their family is a party to any proceeding taking place in court.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 3-26-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
**** SALE, USE, POSSESSION OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID ****
§ 130.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. Any of the following:
      (1)   All or parts of the plant presently classified botanically as
salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, any extract from any part of such
plant, and every compound, manufacture, salts derivative, mixture, or
preparation of such plant, its seeds, or its extracts;
      (2)   HU-210, a substance also known as (6aR, 10aR)-9-(Hydroxymethyl-6,
6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-6a, 7, 10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-
ol;
      (3)   JWH-018, a substance also known as Naphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-
3-yl) methanone;
      (4)   JWH-073, a substance also known as Naphthalen-1-yl-(butylindol-3-
yl) methanone;
      (5)   TFMPP, a substance also known as 1-[3-(triflouromethyl)phenyl]
piperazine;
      (6)   Cannabicyclohexanol, a substance also known as 2-[(1R,
3S)3hydroxycyclohexyl] 5-(2-methylnonan-2-yl)phenol;
      (7)   CP47, 497, a substance also known as 2-[(1R, 3S)3hydroxycyclohexyl]
5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol;
      (8)   JWH-250, a substance also known as 2-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-(1-
pentylindol-3-yl)ethanone;
      (9)   Structural analogs of any of these substances; and
      (10)   Any herbal-based substance sold under the name of K2, Spice,
Acapulco Spices, Serenity Now, Spice Gold, Shokotsu, Afghan Incense, Baked,
Black Magic, Buzz, Cherry Charm, Fire Bird, Fire “N” Ice, Pulse, Solitude, or
Voodoo, or any other herbal-based substance containing any of the foregoing
described substances.
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 11-23-2010)
§ 130.31 SALE.
   A person my not sell, barter, give, publicly display for sale, or attempt to
sell, give, or barter, or possess any synthetic cannabinoid.
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 11-23-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department is responsible for the interpretation
and civil enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Law enforcement personnel may seize and destroy synthetic cannabinoids
that are in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 11-23-2010)
§ 130.33 DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense under this subchapter that a person otherwise in
violation is acting at the direction of an authorized agent of the County
Sheriff’s Department to enforce or ensure compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   It is a defense under this subchapter that a person otherwise in
violation is acting, with respect to the violation, under the direction or
prescription of a person who holds an unlimited license to practice medicine
under I.C. 22-22.5 or a license to practice dentistry under I.C. 25-14.
   (C)   It is a defense under this subchapter that a person otherwise in
violation is acting, with respect to the violation, in connection with a bona
fide research or scientific endeavor funded by public entities or non-profit
organizations.
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 11-23-2010)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
130.01 shall pay a fine of up to $500, together with the costs of any actions.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
130.02 shall pay a fine of $500, together with costs of any actions.
(Prior Code, § 8-24-2)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.03 shall pay a fine of $500, together with the costs of any actions.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-2)
   (E)   Any person violating §
130.15(B) shall be subject to punishment for indirect contempt of court
pursuant to I.C. 34-47-3 and a fine not to exceed $2,500 pursuant to I.C. 34-
28-5-4 and 36-1-3-8. Any person violating §
130.15(B) shall also be subject to having the firearm or weapon confiscated by
the proper law enforcement officials.
   (F)   A person in violation of §§
130.30 through
130.33 shall be fined $250. Each day a violation occurs or continues
constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 1982-2, passed 7-19-1982; Res. passed 6-1-1993; Ord. 2010-07, passed 11-
23-2010; Ord. 2013-01, passed 3-26-2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION; PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
151.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION; PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
County Highways, Streets
   
150.01   Minimum requirements
   
150.02   Owner compliance
   
150.03   Legal description of easements
   
150.04   Petitioner requirements
Construction Under, Along, Over Highways
   
150.15   Requirements for construction
 
   
150.99   Penalty
**** COUNTY HIGHWAYS, STREETS ****
§ 150.01 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No roadway shall be accepted into the county highway system to be
maintained by the Board of Commissioners without the same first meeting the
following minimum specifications and requirements.
      (1)   All streets, roads, and highways in subdivisions (plats which have
been recorded and approved by and bonded to the Board of Commissioners, or unto
the county prior to the effective date of this subchapter), shall conform to
all specifications, standards, and requirements of such ordinances and bonds as
were in effect at such time.
      (2)   All streets, roads, and highways, the right-of-way of which is
dedicated by plat, survey, or other legal instrument recorded prior to the
effective date of this subchapter, but not bonded to the Board of Commissioners
or to the county as required by ordinances in effect at the time of such
recording, shall be required to be constructed in accordance with the
standards, specifications, and requirements of Section I and II of this
Ordinance.
      (3)   All streets, roads, and highways, the right-of-way of which is
designated on unrecorded plats, unrecorded surveys, or other unrecorded legal
instruments of dedications, shall be required to be constructed in accordance
with the specifications, requirements, and standards of Section I and II of
this Ordinance, and shall further be approved by the Board of Commissioners of
the county prior to recording. Provided, however, that all streets, roads, and
highways in subdivisions, the plats of which have not been recorded, but which
have been approved previously by the Board of Commissioners, or which have been
officially filed for plat approval with the Board of Commissioners of the
county prior to the effective date of this subchapter, shall conform to and be
bound in accordance with the specifications, standards, and requirements of the
ordinances which were in effect as of the date of such filing for approval
prior to recording.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
   (B)   The minimum requirements for acceptance into the county highway system
are as follows:
      (1)   Right-of-way. Fifty feet minimum, 25 feet on either side of the
centerline;
      (2)   Pavement width. The width of the surface shall be a minimum of 24
feet;
      (3)   Shoulders.
         (a)   The width of the shoulders shall be four feet on each side of
the pavement. Provided, however, that a minimum width of three feet on each
side of the pavement may be permitted under the exceptional circumstances and
this deviation must be only upon the Board of Commissioners giving its written,
signed approval.
         (b)   The slope of the shoulders shall be a minimum of one-half inch
per foot and a maximum of one inch per foot.
         (c)   The materials for shoulders shall be #53 compacted aggregate
base conforming to State Highway Commission specifications.
      (4)   Subgrade.
         (a)   Unless otherwise provided, the first five inches below the
surface shall be compacted to at least 100% of the maximum dry density as
determined by the provisions of AASHOOT 99, as modified in 203.24.
         (b)   During the subgrade preparation and after its completion,
adequate drainage shall be provided at all times to prevent water from standing
on the subgrade.
         (c)   Unless otherwise provided, the roadbed below the subgrade shall
be so constructed that it will have, as nearly as possible, uniform density
throughout. In both cuts and fills, it shall be rolled with a three-wheeled
roller weighing at least ten tons or with other approved compacting equipment
capable of providing a smooth, even subgrade surface. In areas not accessible
to the roller or other equipment, the required compaction shall be obtained
with mechanical tamps or vibrators. In any case, the upper six inches shall
comply with embankment density requirements of the contract immediately prior
to placing the materials thereon.
         (d)   All soft, yielding, or other unsuitable material which will not
compact readily when approximately dry shall be removed. All rock encountered
shall either be removed or broken off to conform with the required cross-
section.
         (e)   Any holes or depressions resulting from the removal of
unsuitable material shall be filled with satisfactory material and compacted to
conform with the surrounding subgrade surface.
         (f)   Paving material shall not be placed before the subgrade is
checked and approved and at no time when the subgrade is frozen or muddy.
         (g)   No hauling shall be done nor equipment moved over the subgrade
when its condition is such that undue distortion results. If these conditions
are present, the subgrade shall be protected with adequate plank runways, mats,
or other satisfactory means if hauling is done thereon.
         (h)   If limits of the work make mechanical preparation of the
subgrade impractical, hand methods may be used.
         (i)   The condition of the subgrade as finally accepted and meeting
all of the above criteria must continue to exist and prevail from the time that
any paving material is placed thereon and continuing thereafter until all
paving material has been completed in order that the paving operation shall not
be delayed.
      (5)   Drainage.
         (a)   All backslopes shall be a minimum of one to four grade. They
shall be seeded or sodded.
         (b)   All side ditches with over a 3% grade shall be of concrete
construction for such side ditch. Where there is sodding or seed, it also must
be limed and fertilized before seeding. The same shall be maintained by the
petitioner so seeking the acceptance of the road into the highway system.
         (c)   The minimum shall be 15 inches square aluminum or corrugated
metal pipe. Squash is an arch type pipe. Length shall be the minimum under
property entrance shall be 24 feet or longer if necessary to maintain proper
fill slope. Drainage areas for all structures under the main roadway must be
calculated in order for correct size of structures to be placed and this must
be done by a qualified engineer or “professional engineer” (for example, some
land surveyors are also “professional engineers.” A land surveyor who is not
also a professional engineer shall not be so qualified under this division (B)
(5).) Furthermore, the plans so drawn up by such engineer shall include
calculations of drainage area and structure size, and such plans shall be
furnished to the Board of Commissioners of the county prior to any work being
commenced.
         (d)   The length of structures under the main roadway shall be as
required by fill base dimensions. The structure shall be aligned and provided
with end structures or rip rap as required to prevent erosion.
      (6)   Aggregate base. After the preparation of the subgrade has been
completed to the following requirements.
         (a)   Four inches of #53 stone conforming to the ISHC specifications
shall be placed. This shall be rolled with a ten-ton roller and compacted to
100% dry density. After this, four inches of stone shall be applied and rolled
to specification, then another four-inch layer shall be applied and rolled to
100% density. The above material will total an eight-inch depth. The same shall
be placed a total width of 30 feet.
         (b)   The crown shall conform to the finished surface, one-half inch
per foot. The total shall equal three inches in 12 feet.
      (7)   Bituminous surface.
         (a)   The aggregate base will be primed with back asphalt MC-70, AEP,
tar, RT-1, or RT-2 for prime coat. The same shall be applied from 0.50 to 0.8
gallons per square yard, depending on the condition of the surface. No course
shall be placed on a primed surface until bituminous material has penetrated
and the surface is dry and until the aggregate base has been check and
approved. Provided, however, that other types of surfacing and priming
materials may be used if they are approved in writing and signed by the Board
of Commissioners or its delegated representative prior to any obligation being
incurred for the payment of the same.
         (b)   Material for surface shall be hot asphalt concrete pavement type
B (using #11 stone).
         (c)   Thickness shall be bituminous pavement and shall be a minimum of
five inches total depth, three and one-half inch of #5 base, and one and one-
half inch of #11 surface, all after compaction has been completed.
         (d)   Compaction shall be by a ten-ton roller.
         (e)   Placement shall be by machine in one lay.
         (f)   Unless otherwise approved by the Board of Commissioners of the
county or its delegated representative, all materials and workmanship shall
conform to the current issue of “Standard Specifications of Indiana,” State
Highway Department.
      (8)   Ditches. Minimum of one foot below the outer edge of the shoulder
on a four to one slope, and of sufficient size to carry the surface water. A
paved side ditch will be required on slopes over 3%. Such a paved side ditch
must conform to ISHC specifications and shall be approved in writing by the
County Highway Engineer, the County Commissioners, or any personnel whom they
may hire to make such determination. Minimum side slope shall be 0.5%. (The
County Commissioners may not have a full-time County Engineer. In which case,
the County Commissioners may seek the advice of any other qualified engineer in
order to make such determination, whether or not he or she is actually being
paid by the county for that particular purpose.)
      (9)   Design for turn arounds for dead-end streets. Where any street or
road or highway so petitioned to be accepted by the Board of Commissioners of
the county shall have a part of the street, road, or highway that ends in a
dead-end, then the following shall be the minimum standards for right-of-way
and blacktopping according to the detail set forth as follows, and such roadway
shall be constructed according to such minimum standards: [DIAGRAM FOUND TITLE
THREE, CHAPTER 3, SECTION 2, SUBSECTION 3-2-2(9a), P. 79.];
      (10)   Interference with sight lines at intersections. No fences, wall
hedge, or shrub planting which obstructs sight lines at elevations between two
and six feet above the street shall be placed or permitted to retain any corner
lot within the triangular area formed by the street property lines (which
comprise two sides of the triangle) and a line drawn between two points which
are 25 feet from the intersection of said street line (which line comprises of
the remaining third side of the triangle), or in the case of a rounded property
corner, from the intersection of the street lines extended. The same sight line
limitation shall apply to any lot within ten feet from the intersection of a
street line with the edge of a driveway pavement or alley line. No tree, bush,
or other object, either animate or inanimate, shall be permitted to remain
within such distances of such intersection unless the foliage line is
maintained by the owner of such property (or one of the owners) at sufficient
height to prevent obstruction of such lines;
      (11)   Sight line distances at intersections. Further, no road or street
hereunder shall intersect an existing county road with a stopping sight
distance on the county road or proposed road of less than indicated in AASHOT
197a, as amended, geometric design guide for local roads and streets maximum
grade of highways, roadways, or streets;
      (12)   Maximum grade of roadway. No road, street, or highway shall be
accepted into the County Highway System that has more than 6% grade;
      (13)   Street signs. All street signs for roadways shall be as follows.
         (a)   Size of materials. The post which supports such street signs
must be a minimum of two-inch galvanized pipe, ten feet minimum in length to
the point where the street signs themselves attach to the pole.
         (b)   Street signs. Street signs must be six inches wide and 24 inches
long; be of aluminum material normally used for such purposes; and must bear
four-inch letting of “Scotchlite” or other equivalent letters. There shall be
two signs, one affixed immediately above the other, in a crossways fashion so
that the person driving on one of the two roads at such intersection shall be
able to see only the name of the road upon which they are driving.
         (c)   Method of installing. A hole must be dug at least 30 inches deep
and the post placed in the center of such hole in such a manner so that 30
inches of said post are underground. Concrete shall be placed in the hole and
allowed to dry. When the concrete has dried, that part of the post which
remains above ground shall be seven feet six inches long, and the signs be
placed and secured firmly atop that post. The bottom of the lowest sign shall
thus be six inches above ground level immediately under the street sign.
         (d)   Diagram of street sign. [DIAGRAM FOUND TITLE THREE, CHAPTER 3,
SECTION 2, SUBSECTION 3-2-2(9a), P. 81.]
      (14)   Fill areas, cuts, and fills.
         (a)   A fill area of five feet or less shall have a side slope of four
to one (four feet horizontal to one foot vertical). Cut slopes shall be no
steeper than two to one (two feet horizontal to one foot vertical).
         (b)   Cuts and fills which are greater than five feet vertical shall
be reviewed by the County Highway Superintendent or County Engineer. To ensure
that adequate easement is available for future maintenance by the county,
slopes should not be steeper than two to one (two feet horizontal to one foot
vertical) in any case except where rock is excavated.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
(Ord. 73-1, passed 6-3-1973; Ord. passed 6-17-1974; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-30-
2021)
§ 150.02 OWNER COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   On and after taking effect of this subchapter, the Board of
Commissioners of the county shall not approve or accept into the County Highway
System for maintenance any streets, roads, or highways covered by the
specification, standards, and requirements herein set out, until and unless the
applicant (petitioner) has certified that he or she have met these standards:
      (1)   Posted prior to field construction, a construction bond in the
amount of 100% of the total cost from construction plans filed with and
approved by the County Highway Department. Further, said applicant has posted a
one-year maintenance bond, in the amount of 20% of the improvement bond which
warrants the workmanship and all materials used in the construction,
installation, and completion, to be of good quality and in accordance with the
standards, specifications, and requirements of this subchapter; said
maintenance bond shall be in full force and effect for a period of one year
from the date said streets, roads, and highways are approved or accepted in the
County Highway System. Moreover, said maintenance bond shall warrant and
guarantee that the applicant will, at his or her own expense, make all repairs
to said improvements and installations which may become necessary by reason of
improper workmanship or materials;
      (2)   Has furnished an irrevocable letter of credit in form as follows
(see Appendix E for a copy of sample “Irrevocable Letter of Credit” which is
incorporated by reference herein);
      (3)   Same to be furnished with a bank located in the county.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
   (B)   No plat submitted to the Board of Commissioners of the county shall be
approved for recording until such time as the construction bond or irrevocable
letter of credit referred to in division (A)(2) above is actually on file and
in force in the office of the Auditor of the county.
   (C)   No plat submitted to the Board of Commissioners of the county shall be
approved for recording until the owner or developer of the real estate subject
of the plat has fixed a completion date or a review date for completion or
progress towards completion of said project. No plat shall hereafter be
approved where the owner or developer has an open-ended timetable for
completion and approval by the county of the roads laid out in said plat.
   (D)   No plat submitted to the Board of Commissioners of the county for
approval for recording shall make any reference whatsoever to the county’s
acceptance of the roads contained therein until the roadways are completed and
the one year maintenance bond described in division (A)(1) above is actually on
file and in force in the office of Auditor of the county. Any plat submitted
for approval to the County Board of Commissioners which refers to approval or
acceptance of the roads contained therein shall be rejected unless the roads
are actually completed or a 100% construction bond and 20% maintenance bond as
called for in division (A)(1) above are on file.
   (E)   All letters of credit submitted by owners or developers to guarantee
the timely construction and completion of roadways contained in said plat shall
be irrevocable, in the form recommended by the County Board of Commissioners,
and shall have no expiration date fixed upon them.
   (F)   The County Board of Commissioners expressly reserve the right to elect
to take against any bond or irrevocable letter of credit posted by an owner or
developer for the construction, completion, or maintenance of any road set out
in any approved plat whether or not the owner or developer has reached a
completion date or review date for any approved project if, in the opinion of
the Board of Commissioners, such an election to take against said bond or
irrevocable letter of credit is necessary to assure timely completion of
roadways at the owner or developer’s expense and not at taxpayer’s expense.
   (G)   The County Board of Commissioners by and through the County Highway
Department will review each project submitted to it for approval no later than
60 days prior to a completion date or a project review date to determine
whether or not the County Board of Commissioners shall elect to take against
any bond or irrevocable letter of credit pending for said project.
(Ord. 73-1, passed 6-3-1973; Ord. passed 6-17-1974; Ord. 2006-07, passed 12-22-
2006)
§ 150.03 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF EASEMENTS.
   The legal description for any and all easements for the right-of-way for any
and all roads, streets, and highways shall include all fill and/or cut slope. A
fill area of the five feet or less shall have a side slope of four to one (four
feet horizontal to one foot vertical). Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two
to one (two feet horizontal to one foot vertical).
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 150.04 PETITIONER REQUIREMENTS.
   The person or persons so petitioning the county to accept such roadway into
the county highway system shall be solely responsible for ensuring that the
side slope and cut slope minimum requirements are met and shall so state under
oath in writing at the same time that the petition for acceptance of the
roadway is so presented to such Commissioners for consideration. The verified
statement shall further state that one right-of-way width shall be so that any
fill or cut slope shall be on the road easement.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
**** CONSTRUCTION UNDER, ALONG, OVER HIGHWAYS ****
§ 150.15 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any corporation, utility, governmental agency, or any person or
persons planning to construct any pipeline, sewer line, cable, or any other
item of construction that will pass over, under, or along any county road or
highway, or right-of-way thereof, in the county must first obtain written
permission from said Board of Commissioners before said construction is
commenced. The said Board of Commissioners shall have the right to establish
conditions of said construction.
   (B)   Any corporation, utility, governmental agency, or any person or
persons planning to construct any pipeline, sewer line, cable, or any other
item of construction that will pass over, under, or along any county road or
highway, or right-of-way thereof, in the county must construct any of the above
items that are to pass under the surface of the road at least 24 inches below
the surface of said road.
   (C)   Any corporation, utility, governmental agency, or any person or
persons planning to construct any pipeline, sewer line, cable, or any other
item of construction that will pass over, under, or along any county road or
highway, or right-of-way thereof, must first file with the Board of
Commissioners a performance bond in an amount not less than 10% of the total
cost of the project or $500, which ever is the greater.
(Prior Code, § 8-22-1) (Ord. 1970 - ____, passed 3-20-1970)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Penalty for failure to so comply with §
150.04 shall be $1,000 upon conviction.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Methods for reducing flood loss
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
151.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation, greater restrictions
   
151.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
151.12   Interpretation
   
151.13   Warning, disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.25   Designation of Administrator
   
151.26   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements
   
151.27   Duties, responsibilities of Administrator
   
151.28   Administrative procedures
   
151.29   Map maintenance activities
   
151.30   Variance procedure
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.45   Floodplain status standards
   
151.46   General standards
   
151.47   Specific standards
   
151.48   Standards for subdivision and other new developments
   
151.49   Critical facility
 
   
151.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has in I.C. 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Board of County Commissioners does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health, and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
area;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood-prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.04 METHODS FOR REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure with a floor area of 400 square feet or
less that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure and the
use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure; an accessory
structure specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      (1)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are considered walled and roofed where the
structure includes at least two outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof.
      (2)   Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not necessarily
limited to, two-car detached garages (or smaller), carports, storage and tool
sheds, and small boathouses.
      (3)   The following may have uses that are incidental or accessory to the
principal structure on a parcel, but are generally not considered to be
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES by the NFIP:
         (a)   Structures in which any portion is used for human habitation,
whether as a permanent residence or as temporary or seasonal living quarters,
such as a detached garage or carriage house that includes an apartment or guest
quarters, or a detached guest house on the same parcel as a principal
residence;
         (b)   Structures used by the public, such as a place of employment or
entertainment; and
         (c)   Development that does not meet the NFIP definition of a
structure for floodplain management purposes. Examples include, but are not
necessarily limited to, a gazebo, pavilion, picnic shelter, carport that is
open on all sides (roofed but not walled), or the like.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other modification which may alter,
impede, retard, or change the direction and/or velocity of the flow of water
during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter, a request for a variance, or a
challenge of a Board decision.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% annual chance
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to a specified datum, usually the North American Vertical Datum of
1988.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD LAYER (BAFL). Floodplain studies and any corresponding
floodplain maps prepared and/or approved by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources which provide base flood elevation information, floodplain limits,
and/or floodway delineations for flood hazards identified by approximate
studies on the currently effective FIRM (Zone A) and/or for waterways where the
flood hazard is not identified on available floodplain mapping.
   BUILDING. See the definition of “structure.”
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas within its jurisdiction.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   For floodplain management purposes, any human-made change to
improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of boat lifts, docks, piers,
and seawalls;
         (g)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (h)   Storage of materials; or
         (i)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or, gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A FEMA form that is routinely reviewed and approved
by the White House Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork
Reduction Act, that is encouraged to be used to collect certified elevation
information.
   ENCLOSED AREA (ENCLOSURE). An area of a structure enclosed by walls on all
sides.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See the definitions of “lowest floor” and
“enclosed area.”
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL FOR FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT PURPOSES. Any material deposited or placed
which has the effect of raising the level of the ground surface above the
natural grade elevation. Fill material includes, but is not limited to,
consolidated material such as concrete and brick and unconsolidated material
such as soil, sand, gravel, and stone.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; and
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of
normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and
deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   FLOOD or FLOODING also includes the collapse or subsidence of land
along the shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result of erosion or
undermining caused by waves or current of water exceeding anticipated cyclical
levels that result in a flood as defined above.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Areas subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See the
definition of “special flood hazard area.”)
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See the definition
“floodplain.”)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The BFE plus two feet at any given location in
the SFHA. (See the definition of “freeboard.”)
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See the definition of “flood.”)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. The term describes such state or local regulations in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFLNG (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulative increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE or FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The county
requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by:
         (a)   An approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved
programs.
   HYDROLOGIC and HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. Analyses performed by a
professional engineer licensed by the State of Indiana, in accordance with
standard engineering practices that are accepted by the State Department of
Natural Resources and FEMA, used to determine the base flood, other frequency
floods, flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries, and flood
profiles.
   INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL-EVALUATION SERVICE (ICC-ES). Report means a
document that presents the findings, conclusions, and recommendations from a
particular evaluation. ICC-ES reports provide information about what code
requirements or acceptance criteria were used to evaluate a product, and how
the product should be identified, installed.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD).
      (1)   A letter issued by FEMA during the mapping update process which
establishes final elevations and provides the new flood map and flood study to
the community. The LFD initiates the six-month adoption period.
      (2)   The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They are broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA’s comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, result in modification of the
SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory flood way.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). A
letter from FEMA stating that a proposed structure that will be elevated by
fill would not be inundated by the base flood.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a building or area of land
is not located in a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation
data. A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT OUT AS SHOWN (LOMA-OAS). An official
determination by FEMA that states the property or building is correctly shown
outside the SFHA as shown on an effective NFIP map. Therefore, the mandatory
flood insurance requirement does not apply. An out-as-shown determination does
not require elevations.
      (5)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (6)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA’s modification
of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the
existing regulatory floodway.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. For floodplain management purposes, the lowest elevation
described among the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor of a building;
      (2)   The basement floor;
      (3)   The garage floor if the garage is connected to the building;
      (4)   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or pillars;
      (5)   The floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement, below an
elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to
the flow of floodwaters. Designs for meeting the flood opening requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters;
and
         (b)   At least two openings are designed and maintained for the entry
and exit of floodwater; and these openings provide a total net area of at least
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all
such openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher. Doorways
and windows do not qualify as openings.
      (6)   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or columns in a
coastal high hazard area (as that term is defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1), as long
as it meets the requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
“manufactured home” does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: To protect people and structures; and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATURAL GRADE. For floodplain management purposes, the elevation of the
undisturbed natural surface of the ground. Fill placed prior to the date of the
initial identification of the flood hazard on a FEMA map is also considered
NATURAL GRADE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, any structure for
which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. See the definition of “regulatory flood.”
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1%annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PREFABRICATED BUILDING. A building that is manufactured and constructed
using prefabrication. It consists of factory-made components or units that are
transported and assembled on-site to form the complete building.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   Recreational vehicle means a vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four-hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is
as defined in §
151.07(B). The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term “base flood,” “1%
annual chance flood,” and “100-year flood.”
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, or the like.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the storage or
disposal of non-liquid, non-soluble materials, ranging from municipal garbage
to industrial wastes that contain complex and sometimes hazardous substances.
Solid waste also includes sewage sludge, agricultural refuse, demolition
wastes, mining wastes, and liquids and gases stored in containers.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Synonymous with “areas of special flood
hazard” and floodplain. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the county
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on Flood
Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Insurance Studies, Flood Boundary, and Floodway Maps
and Flood Hazard Boundary Maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30, A99, or VE. The
SFHA includes areas that are flood-prone and designated from other federal,
state, or local sources of data, including, but not limited to, best available
flood layer maps provided by or approved by the State Department of Natural
Resources, historical flood information reflecting high water marks, previous
flood inundation areas, and flood-prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The “actual start” means either the first placement of permanent construction
of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
“Permanent construction” does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the “actual start of construction” means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground. The term includes a manufactured home,
as well as a prefabricated building. It also includes recreational vehicles
installed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition
would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements which have been
identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter consistent
with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WALLED AND ROOFED. A building that has two or more exterior rigid walls and
a fully secured roof and is affixed to a permanent site.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard (SFHAs) within
the jurisdiction of the county as identified in §
151.07, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
county.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county, delineated as an “AE Zone”
on the county and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated December 3,
2010, shall be determined from the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the
“Flood Insurance Study of Lawrence County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas” and
the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) dated December 3, 2010, as
well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. Should the
floodway limits not be delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for a studied
SFHA designated as an “AE Zone,” the limits of the floodway will be according
to the best available flood layer as provided by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Lawrence County delineated as an “A
Zone” on the “Lawrence County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map,” dated December 3, 2010, as well as any subsequent updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date, shall be according to the best available flood layer
provided by the State Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream
drainage area from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a
party disagrees with the best available flood layer data, the party needs to
replace existing data with better data that meets current engineering
standards. To be considered, this data must be submitted to the State
Department of Natural Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas shall be according
to the best available flood layer as provided by the State Department of
Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the most conservative
(highest) base flood elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed
structure; or for other developments, affecting any part of the area of the
development.
   (C)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.10 ABROGATION, GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) with base flood elevations provided (riverine or lacustrine Zone AE) on
the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on the
profiles or table of still water elevations shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the natural grade elevation of the site in question is at or above
the base flood elevation and a LOMA or LOMR-FW is obtained, the floodplain
regulations will not be applied provided the LOMA or LOMR-FW is not
subsequently superseded or invalidated.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.13 WARNING, DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the county, the State Department of Natural Resources,
or the state for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter,
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 151.25 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Board of County Commissioners hereby appoints the Executive Director of
the County Emergency Management Agency to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.26 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to
the Floodplain Administrator for all development activities located wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with an identified special flood hazard
area. Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his/her
authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual
commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Such
applications shall include, but not be limited to, plans drawn to scale showing
the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question,
existing or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or
equipment, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of an
existing structure, or an addition to an existing building, a detailed quote
and description of the total work to be completed, including, but not limited
to, interior work, exterior work, and labor as well as a certified valuation of
the existing (pre-improved or pre-damaged) structure;
         (e)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (f)   A letter from a licensed professional surveyor or engineer
noting that an elevation reference benchmark has been established or confirmed
for those projects requiring elevations to be met;
         (g)   Verification that connection to either a public sewer system or
to an approved on-site septic system is available and approved by the
respective regulatory agency for proposed structures to be equipped with a
restroom, kitchen, or other facilities requiring disposal of wastewater;
         (h)   Plans showing elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures in Zones A, AH, and AE.
Elevation should be in NAVD 88;
         (i)   Plans showing elevation (in NAVD 88) to which any non-
residential structure will be floodproofed;
         (j)   Plans showing location and specifications for flood openings for
any proposed structure with enclosed areas below the flood protection grade;
         (k)   Plans showing materials to be used below the flood protection
grade for any proposed structure are flood resistant;
         (l)   Plans showing how any proposed structure will be anchored to
resist flotation or collapse;
         (m)   Plans showing how any electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities are designed
and/or located. Elevation should be in NAVD 88;
         (n)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering analysis is required, and any watercourse changes
submitted to DNR for approval. Once DNR approval is obtained, a FEMA
Conditional Letter of Map Revision must be obtained prior to construction (see
§§
151.27(B)(8) and
151.30 for additional information.); and
         (o)   Any additional information, as requested by the Floodplain
Administrator, which may be necessary to determine the disposition of a
proposed development or structure with respect to the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an
elevated structure or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of
the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator an elevation
certificate for the building under construction. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the elevation certificate. Any deficiencies detected during the
review shall be corrected by the applicant before work is allowed to continue.
Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required
hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction.
         (a)   Upon completion of construction of any structure requiring
certification of elevation, an elevation certificate which depicts the “as-
built” lowest floor elevation and other applicable elevation data is required
to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator. The elevation
certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor and certified by the same.
         (b)   Upon completion of construction of an elevated structure
constructed on fill, a fill report is required to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to verify the required standards were met, including
compaction.
         (c)   Upon completion of construction of a floodproofing measure, a
floodproofing certificate is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator. The floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or architect
and certified by same.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.27 DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of
this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Evaluate application for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied;
      (3)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
      (4)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance;
      (5)   Advise permittee that additional federal, state and/or local
permits may be required. If specific federal, state and/or local permits are
known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file
with the floodplain development permit;
      (6)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas,
must meet the development standards of these regulations;
      (7)   For applications to improve structures, including alterations,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Verify and document the market value of the pre-damaged or pre-
improved structure;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement; or the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition; or, the combined costs
of improvements and repair, if applicable, to the market value of the
predamaged or pre-improved structure. The cost of all work must be included in
the project costs, including work that might otherwise be considered routine
maintenance. Items/activities that must be included in the cost shall be in
keeping with guidance published by FEMA to ensure compliance with the NFIP and
to avoid any conflict with future flood insurance claims of policyholders
within the community;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of “substantial improvement’ for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flood, the determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage as specified in the
definition of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the applicable general and specific standards in §§
151.45 through
151.49 are required.
      (8)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (9)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
151.45(A), (C)(1), and (D) of this chapter. Maintain a record of such
authorization (either copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (10)   Verify the upstream drainage area of any proposed development site
near any watercourse not identified on a FEMA map to determine if §
151.27(I) is applicable;
      (11)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the floodcarrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
151.26.
      (13)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
151.26.
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with §
151.29.
      (15)   Coordinate with insurance adjusters prior to permitting any
proposed work to bring any flood-damaged structure covered by a standard flood
insurance policy into compliance (either a substantially damaged structure or a
repetitive loss structure) to ensure eligibility for ICC funds;
      (16)   Ensure that an approved connection to a public sewer system or an
approved on-site septic system is planned for any structures (residential or
non-residential) to be equipped with a restroom, kitchen, or other facilities
requiring disposal of wastewater;
      (17)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
      (18)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke
permits, and take corrective actions in accordance with §
151.29;
      (19)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter in accordance with §
151.29;
      (20)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and associated FEMA follow-
up in accordance with §
151.30;
      (21)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community; and
      (22)   Request any additional information which may be necessary to
determine the disposition of a proposed development or structure with respect
to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.28 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the floodplain administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and terms of the permit. In exercising this
power, the administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credential,
to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable
hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop work orders.
      (1)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the ordinance, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the floodplain administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Floodplain management records.
      (1)   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention
of public records, records of actions associated with the administration of
this chapter shall be kept on file and maintained under the direction of the
Floodplain Administrator in perpetuity. These records include permit
applications, plans, certifications, Flood Insurance Rate Maps; Letter of Map
Change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits; determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation of
elevations required by this chapter; notifications to adjacent communities,
FEMA, and the state related to alterations of watercourses; assurances that the
flood carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained;
documentation related to appeals and variances, including justification for
issuance or denial; and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   These records shall be available for public inspection at the
County Emergency Management Office located at 916 15th Street, Bedford, IN
47421.
   (E)   Periodic inspection. Once a project is completed, periodic inspections
may be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
Floodplain Administrator shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credential, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the
department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.29 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet NFIP minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved
by FEMA, and to ensure that county and the Incorporated areas flood maps,
studies and other data identified in §
151.07 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified.
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area; and
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have required
technical data for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map
revision and submitted to FEMA. The State Department of Natural Resources will
review the submittals as part of a partnership with FEMA. The submittal should
be mailed to the State Department of Natural Resources at the address provided
on the FEMA form (MT-2) or submitted through the online letter of map change
website. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for
proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Board of Commissioners and may
be submitted to FEMA at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the county have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the county and incorporated areas flood
insurance rate map accurately represent the county boundaries, include within
such notification a copy of a map of county suitable for reproduction, clearly
showing the new corporate limits or the new area for which county has assumed
or relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.30 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners (the “Board”) shall hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners shall hear and decide appeals when
it is alleged an error in any requirement, decision, or determination is made
by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such
decision to the County Circuit Court.
   (C)   In considering such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
of transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (E)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter shall only be granted
when the board can make positive findings of fact based on evidence submitted
at the hearing for the following:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship as defined in §
151.05.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (F)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
151.25(A), (C)(1), or (D) of this chapter may be granted.
   (G)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
151.25(A), (C)(1), or (D) will require a permit from the State Department of
Natural Resources. Variances shall not be issued within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
151.05 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
   (J)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use.
   (K)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (L)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (M)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (N)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
**** PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION ****
§ 151.45 FLOODPLAIN STATUS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Floodways (riverine). Located within SFHAs, established in §
151.07, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. Under the provisions of the
Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1) a permit for construction in a floodway from
the State Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance of
a local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or
obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation
activities such as filling, grading, clearing, and paving undertaken before the
actual start of construction of the structure. General licenses and exemptions
to the requirements of the Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1 and 312 I.A.C. § 10)
may apply to qualified additions/improvements to existing lawful residential
structures, rural bridges, logjam removals, wetland restoration, utility line
crossings, outfall projects, creek rock removal, and prospecting.
      (1)   If the site is in a regulatory floodway as established in §
151.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the
application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State
Department of Natural Resources and apply for approval for construction in a
floodway, provided the activity does not qualify for a general license or
exemption (I.C. 14-28-1 or 312 I.A.C. § 10).
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
approval has been granted by the State Department of Natural Resources for
construction in the floodway, or evidence provided by an applicant that the
development meets specified criteria to qualify for a general license or
exemption to the requirement of the Flood Control Act. The floodplain
development permit shall meet the provisions contained in this section.
      (3)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than
an approval issued for construction in a floodway issued by the State
Department of Natural Resources, or the specified criteria used to qualify for
a general license or exemption to the Flood Control Act for a specific site/
project. However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
      (4)   In floodway areas identified on the FIRM, development shall cause
no increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge
without first obtaining a conditional letter of map revision and meeting
requirements of §
151.30(A). A conditional letter of map revision cannot be issued for
development that would cause an increase in flood levels affecting a structure
and such development should not be permitted.
      (5)   In floodway areas identified by the State Department of Natural
Resources through detailed or approximate studies, but not yet identified on
the effective FIRM as floodway areas, the total cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, shall not adversely affect the efficiency of, or unduly restrict
the capacity of the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as an increase in
the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least fifteen-hundredths (0.15) of
a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under the
project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as proven
with hydraulic analyses.
      (6)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
   (B)   Fringe (riverine). If the site is in the fringe (either identified on
the FIRM or identified by the State Department of Natural Resources through
detailed or approximate studies and not identified on a FIRM), the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development Permit provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (C)   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/
fringes (riverine).
      (1)   If the drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one
square mile, the following provisions shall apply.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the State Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the one-percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended Flood
protection grade has been received from the State Department of Natural
Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper
written approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the
State Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be
issued, provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   If the drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square
mile, the following provisions shall apply.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and one-percent annual chance flood elevation for the
site;
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
Floodplain Development Permit, provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (D)   SFHAs not identified on a map.
      (1)   If a proposed development site is near a waterway with no SFHA
identified on a map, the Floodplain Administrator shall verify the drainage
area upstream of the site. If the drainage area upstream of the site is
verified as being greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the State Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the State
Department of Natural Resources, a Floodplain development permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.46 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction, reconstruction, or repairs made to a repetitive
loss structure, and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG;
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements must incorporate methods
and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG for
residential structures. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above
the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components below the FPG for non-residential structures. Water and sewer
pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other
waterproofed service facilities may be located below the FPG;
   (E)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter;
   (I)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is less;
   (J)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development;
   (K)   Fill projects that do not involve a structure must be protected
against erosion and scour during flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk
heading. If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three
feet horizontal to one foot vertical;
   (L)   Non-conversion agreements shall be required for all new or
substantially improved elevated structures with an enclosure beneath the
elevated floor, accessory structures, and open-sided shelters; and
   (M)   Construction of new solid waste disposal facilities, hazard waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.47 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data or
flood depths have been provided, as set forth in §
151.07, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Building protection requirement. In addition to the general standards
described in §
151.46 structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a residential structure;
      (2)   Construction or placement of a non-residential structure;
      (3)   Addition or improvement made to an existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land). An addition and/or
improvement project that is continuous in scope or time is considered as one
project for permitting purposes;
      (4)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred (the costs of any proposed additions or
improvements beyond restoring the damaged structure to its before damaged
condition must be included in the cost);
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site;
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (7)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (8)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous repair, addition, or improvement constructed since the community’s
first floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structures shall meet provisions described in §
151.46 and applicable general standards described in §
151.46.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor; including basement,
at or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate
a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
151.47(B)(3). Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of §
151.47(B)(4) must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If there are multiple enclosed areas, each is required to meet the
requirements for enclosures, including the requirement for flood openings in
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            3.   If the floor of the enclosure is below the BFE, the openings
must be located wholly below the BFE;
            4.   If the floor of the enclosure is at or above the BFE, but
below the FPG, the openings must be located wholly below the FPG;
            5.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings;
            6.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they , permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
            7.   Openings are to be not less than 3 inches in any direction in
the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A residential structure may be constructed on a fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Fill shall be placed in layers no greater than 1 foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot
vertical;
         (d)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties; and
         (e)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
         (5)   A residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation (also called chain wall,
raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-wall-with-fill) must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (C)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any non-residential
structures (excludes accessory structures) shall meet provisions described in §
151.45 and applicable general standards described in §
151.46.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction, or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (excludes accessory
structures) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement and,
elevated to or above the FPG or be floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be
provided in accordance with the standards of §
151.47(C)(3). Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of §
151.47(C)(4) must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If more than one enclosed area is present, each must have openings
on exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            3.   If the floor of the enclosure is below the BFE, the openings
must be located wholly below the BFE;
            4.   If the floor of the enclosure is at or above the BFE, but
below the FPG, the openings must be located wholly below the FPG;
            5.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings;
            6.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood
waters in both directions; and
            8.   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed on fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep before
compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the standard or
modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing compliance shall
be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical;
         (d)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties; and
         (e)   Shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      (5)   A nonresidential structure may be floodproofed in accordance with
the following.
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (6)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in the SFHA.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in §
151.47(B)(3).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site in the SFHA shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days and be fully licensed and
ready for use on a public highway (defined as being on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (b)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of
an accessory structure must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Shall have a floor area of 400 square feet or less;
      (2)   Use shall be limited to parking of vehicles and limited storage;
      (3)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (4)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (5)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (6)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (7)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG;
      (9)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in §
151.47(C)(3); and
      (10)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the structure from its continued designation as an accessory
structure.
   (F)   Free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar
development. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of free-standing
pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar development must meet the
following standards:
      (1)   Shall have open sides (having not more than one rigid wall);
      (2)   Shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement;
      (3)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below the FPG;
      (4)   Any electrical, heating, plumbing, and other service facilities
shall be located at/above the FPG; and
      (5)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the development from its continued designation as a free-standing
pavilion, gazebo, carport, or similar open-sided development.
   (G)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. Within SFHAs, all newly
placed aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks shall meet the requirements for
a non-residential structure as required in §
151.47(C).
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.48 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and all other proposed new development (including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions), which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is less.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   (G)   Streets, blocks lots, parks, and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.49 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest door elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by
or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the FPG shall
be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   All violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as
such and shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 7- -2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   LAND VACATIONS
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
      
V.   PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
VI.   FUNDS
      
VII.   REAL PROPERTY AND PURCHASES
      
VIII.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS AND PLANS
      
IX.   COUNTY PLANS
TABLE I: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
-      - -    Contract agreement with the county and the White River Humane
              Society to operate an animal shelter. (Document, Contract)
-      - -    Interlocal agreement between the county and the East Lawrence
              Water Corporation.
-      - -    Creation of the County Contractual Library. (Prior Code, § 8-14-
              1)
R.            Joint resolution of an acquisition agreement between the Board of
2010-3 - -    Governors of Dunn Memorial Hospital, the County Board of
              Commissioners, and the County Council.
R. 95- 5-30-  Merging of the Cresthaven Funeral Home and Cemetery, Inc., and
6      1995   Valhalla Memory Gardens, Inc., into Owens Funeral Home, Inc.
R. 97- 12-23- Variance agreement with the lot of 71 Briarwood Addition and the
14     1997   county.
R. 98- 8-4-   Application to the Monroe County Regional Sewer District to
06     1998   include the Briarwood Addition in the county.
              Joint resolution of the Board of Governors of Dunn Memorial
R. -   11-24- Hospital, the County Board of Commissioners, and the County
       1998   Council for a consolidation agreement between Bedford Regional
              Medical Center, Inc. and Dunn Memorial Hospital.
R. 99- 8-3-   Acceptance of a Brownfield loan and authorizing the execution of
05     1999   the necessary agreements with the State Development Finance
              Authority.
2003-  7-15-  The county to receive forms provided by Manatron through the MVP
06     2003   Tax software package.
R.     2-10-  Creation of a Common Construction Wage Committee to oversee the
2004-  2004   temporary project of renovations throughout the county.
01
R.     6-20-  Merger of AT&T and T-Mobile U.S.A. to bring wireless broadband to
2011-  2011   the county.
03
R.     8-14-
2012-  2012   Data exchange agreement with the state.
05
R.     7-16-
2013-  2013   Joint land use study for NSA Crane.
09
R.     6-14-  Agreement to deploy the statewide Court Case Management System to
2016-  2016   the County Courts.
01
R.     1-3-   Authorizing interlocal agreement for the establishment of a
2023-  2023   regional land bank.
01
2024-  5-21-  Authorizing the Monroe County Commissioners, on behalf of the
03     2024   Board of County Commissioners, to enter into an agreement with
              the State Department of Transportation (INDOT).
             
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2005-07  4-19-2005   Granting a broadband communication franchise to Cinergy
                     Metronet, Inc.
                    
 
TABLE III: LAND VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating the public alley south of Crawford Street,
2009-007 7-6-2009    between Tenth Street and Eleventh Street in the City of
                     Mitchell.
2012-01  4-10-2012   Vacating a certain portion of the roadway in the
                     Leatherwood East Addition.
2013-08  7-16-2013   Vacation of various streets and alleys in Lawrenceport,
                     Indiana.
06-2017  11-14-2017  Vacation of various streets and alley in the Town of
                     Enola.
2020-03  3-31-2020   Vacating an alley right-of-way owned by Mark E. Deebel and
                     Michael S. Stone.
2022-11  9-13-2022   Vacation of various streets and alleys in Leesville,
                     Indiana.
2022-12  9-27-2022   Vacation of platted lots in the Woodview Estates, first
                     section.
2022-14  9-27-2022   Vacating the platted lots in the Town of Bono owned by M.
                     Dean Stewart and Paula R. Stewart.
05-2023  5-9-2023    Vacation of a street located in the Eastbrook Estates,
                     first section.
2024.13  11-19-2024  Vacating and abandoning parts of streets and alleys
                     located in East Oolitic.
2024-14  11-19-2024  Vacating and abandoning parts of streets and alleys
                     located in East Oolitic.
                    
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
R. -     - -         Dissolving the Town of Bryantsville into acreage in the
                     county.
2010-004 2-1-2010    Annexation into the City of Mitchell property owned by
                     Henry E. Ferrel and Christina J. Ferrel.
2011-01  1-18-2011   Amending the boundaries of a precinct in the City of
                     Mitchell.
                    
 
TABLE V: PUBLIC PROPERTY
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
R. 2008-3 3-4-2008    To close access to a roadway on the west end of
                      Springville Drive, which adjoins State Road 54/58.
                     
 
TABLE VI: FUNDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.    Date   Description
No.     Passed
-             - -Establishing the Prisoner's Clothing Fund. (Prior Code § 2-10-
               3)
97-1    - -    Establishing and selecting the Lawrence County Corrections Fund.
R.      7-6-   Establishing the Dunn County Rental Fund.
2010-04
R.      10-26- Establishing the Firing Range Fund.
2010-06
Council 3-25-  Establishing the Petty Cash Fund.
        1986
Council 5-24-  Establishing the Cash Change Fund.
R. -    1988
R. -    8-22-  Adoption of a plan for a Capital Projects Fund for the Board of
        1991   Trustees of the Mitchell Community Schools.
R. -    8-27-  Adoption of a plan for a Capital Projects Fund for the Board of
        1992   Trustees of the Mitchell Community Schools.
93-1    2-23-  Establishing the County Corrections Fund; adopting an integer
        1993   under I.C. 11-12-6-9 and I.C. 11-12-6-9.
93-6    6-1-   Establishing an Open Container Fund.
        1993
R. -    6-15-  Establishing the Cumulative Bridge Fund.
        1993
94-8    8-23-  Establishing the County Enhanced Emergency Telephone System Fund.
        1994
97-7    7-8-   Establishing the Accident Investigation and Prevention Fund.
        1997
Council 4- -   Closing the Welfare Loan Fund.
99-03   1999
R. -    7-3-   Amending the Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
        2001
2003-03 3-21-  Establishing the County Corrections Fund.
        2003
R.      3-3-   Amending the Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund.
2004-04 2004
Council 10-23-
R.      2007   Establishing the Rainy Day Fund.
2007-10
2008-03 4-15-  Establishing the Prosecuting Attorney s Criminal Enterprise
        2008   Forfeiture Fund.
Council 9-22-
R.      2009   Establishing H1N1 Fund.
2009-11
Council 11-27- Establishing of the Court Security Fund and Economical Development
R.      2012   Fund.
2012-10
2014-02 3-11-  Establishing the Seized Asset Fund.
        2014
2014-04 5-5-   Establishing the County Enhanced Access Fund.
        2014
2016-03 7-12-  Setting a cap on the County Self-Insurance Fund.
        2016
2018-04 6-26-  Amending the cap on the County Self-Insurance Fund.
        2018
2022-15 10-25- Establishing the ARP Local Fiscal Recovery Fund Plan.
        2022
2022-17 11-7-  Establishing the ARP Local Fiscal Recovery Fund Plan.
        2022
2022-19 11-6-  Establishing the Sheriff Sale Fund.
        2022
2023-08 8-29-  Establishing the Accident Investigation and Prevention Fund.
        2023
2023-04 6-20-  Accepting state public health funding.
        2023
2023-07 9-26-  Establishing Non-Reverting Building Maintenance Fund.
        2023
              
 
TABLE VII: REAL PROPERTY AND PURCHASES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.           Date Passed Description
R. -               3-16-1992   The City of Mitchell to sell a police vehicle.
R. -               3-24-1992   Purchase of a police vehicle from the City of
                               Mitchell.
                               Purchase agreement between the Bedford Urban
                               Enterprise Association, Inc., and the county of
-                  6-26-2001   certain real property located at 918 Sixteenth
                               Street in Bedford, Indiana. (Document, "Purchase
                               Agreement")
                               Receiving and approving the petition of
R. 2001-08         7-10-2001   taxpaying citizens requesting the construction
                               and leasing of certain county facilities.
                               Approving execution of a lease of property
R. 10              7-31-2001   located at 916-918 Sixteenth Street in Bedford,
                               Indiana, with the Courthouse Annex Building
                               Corporation.
                               Approval of the terms and conditions of a lease
R. 2009-03         2-17-2009   with the County Hospital Association and the
                               Board of Trustees of the county hospital.
                               Approving the terms and conditions of a lease
Council R. 2009-04 2-24-2009   with the County Hospital Association and the
                               Board of Trustees of the county hospital.
                               Approving the plans, specifications, and cost
R. 2009-05         3-17-2009   estimates, and authorizing the execution of a
                               lease with the County Hospital Association and
                               the Board of Trustees of Dunn Memorial Hospital.
R. 2009-06         3-31-2009   Accepting the transfer of voting machines from
                               Jefferson County.
R. 2014-01         1-14-2014   Approving the purchase of real property from the
                               Elliott Stone Company, Inc.
Council 2014-01    1-28-2014   Authorizing the purchase of real property from
                               the Elliott Stone Company, Inc.
R. 2014-12         11-3-2014   Donation of real property from the City of
                               Bedford to the county.
                               Establishing a permit parking lot for the
2018-03            6-12-2018   Courthouse at the corner of Seventeenth and J
                               Streets.
                               Releasing all rights, privileges, interests, or
2023-11            11-21-2023  claims to Lot No. 2, Block C, being 1708-23rd
                               Street, Bedford, IN 47421.
                               Authorizing certain expenditures from the tax
2024-05            9-19-2024   increment in the Lehigh Economic Development
                               Area for the purchase of equipment for the
                               Township Fire Department.
                              
 
TABLE VIII: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS AND PLANS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.           Date Passed Description
                               Approving the resolution of the economic
R. 97-5            4-29-1997   revitalization plan for the Lawrence County
                               Economic Development Area No. 1.
                               Updating the previously adopted property tax
Council R. 97-6    5-27-1997   abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by D & M Tool Corporation and PRD Inc.
Council R. -       4-25-2000   Confirming the economic revitalization area
                               adopted in Res. 00-04.
                               Report of the County Economic Development
                               Commission concerning the proposed refinancing
-                  11-20-2001  of the economic development facilities located
                               at the economic revitalization area owned by
                               South Lawrence Utilities, Inc.
                               Confirming the designation of a portion of the
                               county owned by Hoosier Energy Rural Electric
Council R. 2002-09 11-12-2002  Cooperative, Inc., and Wabash Valley Power
                               Association, Inc., as an economic revitalization
                               area.
                               Designating a tract of land located at 3159
Council R. 2007-04 2-27-2007   Fleenor Rd., Mitchell, Indiana as an economic
                               revitalization area.
                               Designating a tract of land located at 3159
Council R. 2007-05 2-27-2007   Fleenor Rd., Mitchell, Indiana, as an economic
                               revitalization area.
                               Confirming the designation of a tract of land
Council R. 2007-06 3-20-2007   located at 3159 Fleenor Rd., Mitchell, Indiana,
                               as an economic revitalization area.
                               Confirming the designation of a tract of land
Council R. 2007-07 3-20-2007   located at 3159 Fleenor Rd., Mitchell, Indiana,
                               as an economic revitalization area.
                               Designating a tract of land located at 2715
Council R. 2007-8  10-23-2007  Pleasant Run Rd., Heltonville, Indiana, as an
                               economic revitalization area.
                               Designating a tract of land located at 2715
Council R. 2007-9  10-23-2007  Pleasant Run Rd., Heltonville, Indiana, as an
                               economic revitalization area.
                               Designating a tract of land located at 2715
Council R. 2007-12 11-27-2007  Pleasant Run Rd., Heltonville, Indiana, as an
                               economic revitalization area.
                               Confirming the designation a tract of land
Council R. 2007-13 11-27-2007  located at 2175 Pleasant Run Rd., Heltonville,
                               Indiana, as an economic revitalization area.
                               Confirming approval of a ten-year tax abatement
Council R. 2007-14 11-27-2007  for the economic revitalization area owned by D
                               & M Tool Corporation.
Council R. 2008-01 1-22-2008   Establishing a economic revitalization area
                               owned by Lehigh Cement Company.
                               Confirming the approval of a economic
Council R. 2008-2  2-26-2008   revitalization area owned by Lehigh Cement
                               Company.
                               Approving a declaratory resolution and economic
R. 2008-04         4-15-2008   development plan for the Mill Creek/S.R. 60
                               economic development area.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year property
Council R. 2011-06 11-22-2011  tax abatement for the economic revitalization
                               area owned by PRD Inc.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
Council R. 2012-01 2-28-2012   abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by D & M Tool Corporation.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
Council R. 2012-07 9-25-2012   abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by PRD Inc.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
Council R. 2012-08 9-25-2012   abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by D & M Tool Corporation.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
Council R. 2014-03 5-27-2014   abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by PRD Inc.
                               Establishing an economic revitalization area
Council R. 2015-02 1-27-2015   owned by Duck du Jour (withdrawn, as seen in
                               Council Res. 2015-03).
Council R. 2015-03 2-24-2015   Rescission of Council Res. 2015-02 establishing
                               an economic revitalization area.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year property
Council R. 2016-07 10-25-2016  tax abatement for the economic revitalization
                               area owned by D & M Tool Corporation.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
Council R. 2016-08 10-25-2016  abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by PRD Inc.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year personal
Council R. 2017-10 10-24-2017  property tax abatement for the economic
                               revitalization area owned by Blacktail Bow
                               Company, LLC.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
Council R. 2017-11 10-24-2017  abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by Blacktail Bow Company, LLC.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
Council R. 2017-12 11-28-2017  abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by PRD Inc.
Council R. 2018-07 10-23-2018  Approving a tax abatement for the economic
                               revitalization area owned by Orange County REMC.
                               Approving a tax abatement for the economic
Council R. 2018-08 10-23-2018  revitalization area owned by Jackson Connect,
                               LLC.
                               Confirming the approval of a nine-year tax
Council R. 2019-01 2-26-2019   abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by Embree Properties, LLC.
                               Confirming the approval of a nine-year tax
Council R. 2019-02 2-26-2019   abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by Embree Properties, LLC.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
Council R. 2019-04 7-23-2019   abatement for the economic revitalization are
                               owned by PRD Inc.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
Council R. 2019-07 10-22-2019  abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by Lehigh Cement Company, LLC.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
Council R. 2019-08 10-22-2019  abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by Lehigh Cement Company, LLC.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year property
Council R. 2019-09 10-22-2019  tax abatement for the economic revitalization
                               area owned by Indiana Limestone Acquisition,
                               LLC.
                               Awarding build-operate-transfer transactions and
2023-05            7-13-2023   taking certain other action related to a project
                               to accomplish and promote economic development.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
2024-04            - -2024     abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by Lehigh Cement Company, LLC.
                               Confirming the approval of a ten-year tax
2024-06            10-22-2024  abatement for the economic revitalization area
                               owned by Lehigh Cement Company, LLC.
                              
 
TABLE IX: COUNTY PLANS
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
R. 2009-01 1-20-2009   Adoption of the Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan.
R. 2017-03 2-21-2017   Adoption of the Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan.
2023-06    8-15-2023   Adoption of the Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan.
                      
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
Indiana Code Cite Code Section
Indiana Code Cite       Code Section
1-1-4-1                 10.03
1-1-4-5                 10.03
3-11-10-26(f)           30.03
3-11-10-26.2            30.03
3-11-10-27              30.03
3-11.5                  30.03
3-13-6                  31.030
3-13-7                  31.030
4-21-5                  50.25
4-21.5-1-9              112.01
4-21.5-3 et seq.        113.51
4-21.5-3-1 et seq.      113.51
4-23-6.5-8              32.27
5-1-4                   31.150
5-3-1                   30.42
5-3-1-1 et seq.         30.20
5-3-1-1 - 5-3-1-9       32.01
5-11-1-21               32.60
5-11-1-27               32.60
5-11-1-27(1)            32.61
5-12-1-7                31.151
5-14-1.5-5              30.20;
                        30.42
5-14-1.5-6              35.01
5-14-3 et seq.          32.16
5-14-3-1                31.133
5-14-3-3(e)             32.16
5-14-3-4                35.01
5-14-3-5                35.01
5-15-6-1                31.157
6-1.1-12.1-14           32.25
6-1.1-12.1-14(c)        32.25
6-1.1-17-1              30.42
6-1.1-24-5              31.117;
                        31.133
6-1.1-27-2              31.114
6-1.1-28-1              31.152
6-1.1-29-1              31.158
6-2.1-3-20 - 6-2.1-3-22 112.03
6-3.5-1.1-15            33.01
6-3.5-1.1-25            33.01
6-9-18-5(b)             31.161
6-9-18-3(c)             33.03
6-9-18-5(d)             31.161
6-9-18-5(g)             31.161
6-9-18-5(h)             31.161
6-9-18-6                31.161
6-9-18-7                31.161
7.1-2-4-6               31.153
8-1-7-3-10              31.026
8-17-3-10 - 8-12-7-3    31.026
8-17-5-1 - 8-17-5-12    31.027
8-17-7-7                30.20
8-22-2-1                31.154
8-22-2-1(b)             31.154
8-22-2-1(g)             31.154
9-13-2-178              70.04
10-5-1-11               31.028
11-12-2-2               31.160
12-1-3-1                31.155
12-1-3-3                31.155
14-28-1                 151.45
15-5                    91.38
15-20-1-4               91.23
16-1-5-1                31.156
16-1-7-10               31.156
16-18-2-137             112.01
16-20                   112.01
16-20-1-10              112.06
16-20-1-25              112.05
16-20-1-25(c)           112.05
16-20-1-26              93.04;
                        112.04
16-20-1-27              112.03
16-20-2                 113.01
16-20-2-16              112.01
16-20-8                 112.04
16-22-2                 31.150
16-22-6 et seq.         31.150
16-22-6-2               31.150
16-42-1-6               112.02
16-42-1-13              112.04
16-42-5-23              112.04
16-42-5-28(g)           112.05
16-42-5-30              112.03
17-3-5-2                34.01
17-3-5-3                34.01
20-12-2.5-4             31.159
20-12-6-5               31.159
20-14-2.5-11            31.159
22-9-1-4 et seq.        92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.        92.01
22-9.5-2-2              92.02
22-9.5-2-3              92.02
22-9.5-2-4              92.02
22-9.5-2-8              92.02
22-9.5-2-9              92.02
22-9.5-2-10             92.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)          92.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)          92.02
22-9.5-2-11             92.02
22-9.5-2-13             92.02
22-9.5-3                92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.        92.06
22-9.5-4-8              92.07
22-9.5-5                92.02
22-9.5-5-1              92.03
22-9.5-6                92.02;
                        92.07
22-22.5                 130.33
25-14                   130.33
27-1-15.6-6(d)          35.35
27-7-3-2                35.35
27-7-3-6                35.35
31-16-17-12             31.165
31-37-1-2               31.165
32-26-4-1               90.01
32-29-7                 32.21
32-29-7-3               32.21
32-29-7-3(i)            32.21
33-6-3-1                112.05
33-40-6                 31.165
33-40-7-5               31.165
33-40-7-11              31.165
34-28-5-1               112.05
34-28-5-4               130.99
34-47-3                 130.99
35-31.5-2-75            31.165
35-41-1-6               31.165
35-41-1-9               130.15
35-41-1-17              130.15
35-41-1-25              130.15
35-43-5-5(e)            32.15
35-46-3-6               91.23
35-46-3-7               91.22
35-47-1-5               130.15
35-47-8-1               130.15
35-47-8-2               130.15
35-47-8-3               130.15
36-1-2-9                10.03;
                        30.01
36-1-3-1                31.001
36-1-3-1 et seq.        11.01
36-1-3-2                11.01
36-1-3-3                11.01
36-1-3-4                11.01
36-1-3-5                11.01
36-1-3-8                130.99
36-1-3-8(8)             30.20
36-1-3-8(9)             30.20
36-1-3-8(10)            10.99
36-1-4-1 et seq.        31.025
36-1-4-11               151.01
36-1-4-12               30.20
36-1-4-13               30.20
36-1-5-4                10.11
36-1-9-1                32.01
36-1-9-2                32.01
36-1-9-4                32.01
36-1-9-5                32.01
36-1-9-6                32.01
36-1-9-8                32.01
36-1-9-11               32.01
36-1-11-2               32.01
36-1-11-3               32.01
36-1-11-6               32.01
36-1-11-8               32.01
36-1-11-9               32.01
36-1-11-12              32.01
36-1-11-15              31.064
36-1-20.2               31.006
36-1-21                 31.006
36-2-1-1                11.02
36-2-1-2                11.02
                        10.03;
36-2-2-2                30.01;
                        30.15
36-2-2-3                30.16
36-2-2-6                30.20
36-2-2-8                30.20
36-2-2-9                30.20
36-2-2-10               30.20
36-2-2-11               30.20;
                        31.133
36-2-2-12               30.20;
                        31.001
36-2-2-14               31.031
36-2-2-14(a)            31.031
36-2-2-14(b)            31.031
36-2-2-14(b)(1)         31.031
36-2-2-14(b)(2)         31.031
36-2-2-14(b)(4)         31.031
36-2-2-14(b)(5)         31.031
36-2-2-14(b)(7)         31.031
36-2-2-14(b)(8)         31.031
36-2-2-14(c)            31.031
                        30.18;
36-2-2-15               30.20;
                        30.99
                        10.03;
36-2-3-2                30.01;
                        30.35
36-2-3-3                30.36
                        30.38;
36-2-3-6                30.39;
                        30.40;
                        31.133
36-2-3-7                30.42
36-2-3.5-1 et seq.      30.01
36-2-3.5-2              30.01
36-2-4                  30.42
36-2-4-3(a)             30.42
36-2-4-3(b)             30.42
36-2-4-4                30.42
36-2-4-7                30.20;
                        30.42
36-2-4-8                30.20
36-2-4-9                30.42
36-2-5-3                30.41
36-2-7-10(f)            35.33
36-2-9-2                31.130
36-2-9-3                31.132
36-2-9-5                31.132
36-2-9-6                31.132
36-2-9-7                31.132
36-2-9-8                31.132
36-2-9-9                31.132
36-2-9-11               31.133
36-2-9-13               31.999
36-2-9-14               31.133
36-2-10-2               31.105
36-2-10-3               31.106
36-2-10-4               31.107
36-2-10-6               31.108
36-2-10-7               31.109;
                        31.110
36-2-10-9               31.109
36-2-10-12              31.111
36-2-10-13              31.111
36-2-10-16              31.113;
                        31.133
36-2-10-19              31.115
36-2-10-21              31.116
36-2-10-22              31.116
36-2-11-2               31.061
36-2-11-4               31.062
36-2-11-6               31.063
36-2-11-7               31.064
36-2-11-8 - 36-2-11-12  31.064
36-2-11-9               31.064
36-2-11-12              31.064
36-2-11-15              31.064
36-2-11-16              31.064
36-2-11-16(a)(4)        31.064
36-2-11-17              31.065
36-2-11-18              31.064
36-2-11-19              31.064
36-2-11-20              31.064
36-2-11-21              31.066
36-2-11-22              31.067
36-2-11-23              31.069
36-2-11-24              31.068
36-2-12-2               31.085
36-2-12-3               31.086;
                        31.087
36-2-12-5               31.088
36-2-12-6               31.089
36-2-12-11(e)           31.060
36-2-12-12              31.090
36-2-13-5               34.01
36-2-13-5.6             32.23
36-2-14-11(b)           31.116
36-2-15-3               31.045;
                        31.046
36-2-16-4               31.030
36-2-17-2               31.133
36-2-18                 90.01
36-7-14                 31.164;
                        31.180
36-8                    31.133;
                        32.40
36-8-3-20               34.02
36-8-16 et seq.         32.47
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code  2024 Code
1-1-1       10.01
1-3-1       10.02
1-3-2       10.03 -
            10.10
1-4-1       10.99
1-5-1       10.11
1-6-1       10.03
1-7-1       11.01
1-7-2       11.01
1-7-3       11.01
1-8-1       31.011
1-9-1       11.02
2-1-1       30.01
2-2-1       30.15
2-2-2       30.16
2-2-3       30.17
2-2-4       30.18
2-2-5       30.19
2-3-1       30.20
2-3-2       30.20
2-3-3       30.20
2-3-4       30.20
2-3-5       30.20
2-3-6       30.20;
            30.99
2-3-7       30.20
2-3-8       30.20
2-3-9       30.20
2-3-10      30.20
2-3-11      30.20
2-3-12      30.20
2-4-1       30.35
2-4-2       30.36
2-4-3       30.37
2-4-4       30.38
2-4-5       30.39
2-4-6       30.40
2-4-7       30.41
2-4-8       30.42
2-4-9       30.42
2-4-10      30.42
2-4-11      30.42
2-4-12      30.42
2-4-13      30.42
2-4-14      30.42
2-4-15      30.42
2-5-1       32.01
2-5-2       32.01
            31.025 -
2-7-1       31.029;
            31.150 -
            31.159
            31.150;
            31.153;
2-7-2       31.154;
            31.158;
            31.159
2-7-3       31.002
2-7-4       31.001
2-7-5       31.001
2-7-6       31.030
2-7-7       31.003
2-8-4       31.045
2-8-5       31.046
2-9-1       31.060
2-9-2       31.061
2-9-3       31.062
2-9-4       31.063
2-9-5       31.064
2-9-6       31.064
2-9-7       31.065
2-9-8       31.066
2-9-9       31.067
2-9-10      31.068
2-9-11      31.069
2-9-12      31.070
2-10-1      34.01
2-10-2      34.01
2-10-3      TSO Table VI
2-10-4      34.01
2-11-1      31.085
2-11-2      31.086
2-11-3      31.087
2-11-4      31.088
2-11-5      31.089
2-11-6      31.090
2-11-7      31.091
2-11-8      31.092
2-11-9      31.093
2-12-1      31.105
2-12-2      31.106
2-12-3      31.107
2-12-4      31.108
2-12-5      31.109
2-12-6      31.110
2-12-7      31.111
2-12-8      31.112
2-12-9      31.113
2-12-10     31.114
2-12-11     31.115
2-12-12     31.116
2-12-13     31.117
2-13-1      31.130
2-13-2      31.131
2-13-3      31.132
2-13-4      31.999
2-13-4      31.133
2-13-5      31.134
3-1-1       70.06
3-1-2       70.06
3-1-3       70.06
3-1-4       70.06
3-1-5       70.06
3-1-6       70.06
3-2-1       150.01
3-2-2       150.01
3-2-3       150.02
3-2-4       150.03
3-2-5       150.04
3-2-5       150.99
4-1-1       35.15
4-2-1       35.16
4-3-1       35.17
Chapter 5-1 70.01
5-2-1       70.02
5-2-2       70.99
5-3-1       70.03
5-3-2       70.03
5-4-1       70.04
5-4-3       Ch. 71, Schd. I
5-4-4       70.04
5-4-5       70.99
5-4-5       70.04
5-4-6       70.04
5-4-7       70.04
5-4-8       70.04
5-4-9       70.99
5-4-10      70.04
5-5-1       Ch. 71, Schd. III
5-5-2       Ch. 71, Schd. III
5-5-3       Ch. 71, Schd. III
8-1-1       90.01;
            90.99
8-1-2       90.01
8-2-1       35.01
8-3-1       114.01 -
            114.05
8-4-1       51.01;
            51.99
8-5-1       51.01;
            51.02
8-5-2       51.03
8-5-3       51.99
8-6-1       31.012
8-7-1       90.02
8-7-2       90.99
8-9-2       70.20;
            70.99
8-10-1      70.21
8-10-2      70.21
8-10-3      70.21
8-11-1      Ch. 71, Schd. IV
8-11-2      Ch. 71, Schd. IV
8-12-2      32.03
8-13-2      130.03
8-13-2      130.99
8-14-1      31.159;
            TSO Table I
8-16-1      31.005
8-16-2      31.005
8-16-3      31.005
8-17-2      34.02
8-18-1      31.150
8-21-1      33.01
8-22-1      150.15
8-24-1      130.02
8-24-2      130.99
8-25-1      50.01
8-27-1      110.01
8-27-2      110.02
8-27-3      110.03
8-27-4      110.03
8-27-5      110.04
8-27-6      110.05
8-27-7      110.06
8-27-8      110.07
8-27-9      110.08
8-27-10     110.09
8-27-11     110.99
8-29-1      111.01
8-29-2      111.02
8-29-3      111.03
8-33-1      32.15
8-34-2      31.182
8-35-2      31.004
8-36-2      34.04
            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
-               - -         TSO Table IV
2010-3          - -         TSO Table I
2010-04         7-6-        TSO Table VI
2010-06         10-26-      TSO Table VI
Council         5-24-1988   TSO Table VI
-               12-18-1990  31.160
-               8-22-1991   TSO Table VI
-               3-16-1992   TSO Table VII
-               3-24-1992   TSO Table VII
-               8-27-1992   TSO Table VI
-               6-1-1993    Ch. 71, Schd. I
-               6-1-1993    130.01;
                            130.99
-               6-15-1993   TSO Table VI
95-6            5-30-1995   TSO Table I
95-8            6-13-1995   Ch. 71, Schd. II
97-5            4-29-1997   TSO Table VIII
Council 97-6    5-27-1997   TSO Table VII
97-14           12-23-1997  TSO Table I
98-06           8-4-1998    TSO Table I
-               11-24-1998  TSO Table I
99-01           1-19-1999   30.21
99-05           8-3-1999    TSO Table I
Council         4-25-2000   TSO Table VIII
-               7-3-2001    TSO Table VI
2001-08         7-10-2001   TSO Table VII
10              7-31-2001   TSO Table VII
2001-11         7-31-2001   35.02
Council 2002-09 11-12-2002  TSO Table VIII
2004-01         2-10-2004   TSO Table I
2004-04         3-3-2004    TSO Table VI
Council 2007-02 1-30-2007   31.136
2007-01         2-27-2007   30.03
Council 2007-04 2-27-2007   TSO Table VIII
Council 2007-05 2-27-2007   TSO Table VIII
Council 2007-06 3-20-2007   TSO Table VIII
Council 2007-07 3-20-2007   TSO Table VIII
Council 2007-8  10-23-2007  TSO Table VIII
Council 2007-9  10-23-2007  TSO Table VIII
Council 2007-10 10-23-2007  TSO Table VI
Council 2007-12 11-27-2007  TSO Table VIII
Council 2007-13 11-27-2007  TSO Table VIII
Council 2007-14 11-27-2007  TSO Table VIII
Council 2008-01 1-22-2008   TSO Table VIII
Council 2008-2  2-26-2008   TSO Table VIII
2008-3          3-4-2008    TSO Table V
2008-04         4-15-2008   TSO Table VIII
2009-01         1-20-2009   TSO Table IX
2009-02         2-17-2009   31.150
2009-03         2-17-2009   TSO Table VII
Council 2009-04 2-24-2009   TSO Table VII
2009-05         3-17-2009   TSO Table VII
2009-06         3-31-2009   TSO Table VII
Council 2009-11 9-22-2009   TSO Table VI
2011-03         6-20-2011   TSO Table I
Council 2011-06 11-22-2011  TSO Table VIII
Council 2012-01 2-28-2012   TSO Table VIII
2012-05         8-14-2012   TSO Table I
Council 2012-07 9-25-2012   TSO Table VIII
Council 2012-08 9-25-2012   TSO Table VIII
Council 2012-10 11-27-2012  TSO Table VI
2013-09         7-16-2013   TSO Table I
2014-01         1-14-2014   TSO Table VII
Council 2014-03 5-27-2014   TSO Table VIII
2014-12         11-3-2014   TSO Table VII
Council 2015-02 1-27-2015   TSO Table VIII
Council 2015-03 2-24-2015   TSO Table VIII
2016-01         6-14-2016   TSO Table I
Council 2016-07 10-25-2016  TSO Table VIII
Council 2016-08 10-25-2016  TSO Table VIII
2017-03         2-21-2017   35.03;
                            TSO Table IX
Council 2017-10 10-24-2017  TSO Table VIII
Council 2017-11 10-24-2017  TSO Table VIII
Council 2017-12 11-28-2017  TSO Table VIII
Council 2018-03 4-24-2018   31.154
Council 2018-07 10-23-2018  TSO Table VIII
Council 2018-08 10-23-2018  TSO Table VIII
Council 2019-01 2-26-2019   TSO Table VIII
Council 2019-02 2-26-2019   TSO Table VIII
2019-03         7-9-2019    31.163
Council 2019-04 7-23-2019   TSO Table VIII
Council 2019-07 10-22-2019  TSO Table VIII
Council 2019-08 10-22-2019  TSO Table VIII
Council 2019-09 10-22-2019  TSO Table VIII
Council 2019-10 12-23-2019  32.25
2023-01         1-3-2023    TSO Table I
2023-04         6-20-2023   TSO Table VII
2023-05         7-13-2023   TSO Table VIII
2023-06         8-15-2023   TSO Table IX
2023-07         9-26-2023   TSO Table VI
2023-11         11-21-2023  TSO Table VII
2024-03         5-21-2024   TSO Table I
2024-04         - -2024     TSO Table VIII
2024-05         9-19-2024   TSO Table VII
2024-06         10-22-2024  TSO Table VIII
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
-               - -         TSO Table I
97-1            - -         TSO Table VI
                            91.01—
                            91.07;
                            91.20—
2019-03         - -         91.24;
                            91.35;
                            91.37—
                            91.39;
                            91.99
                            111.01;
1944-           3-27-1944   111.02;
                            111.03
1970 - ____     3-20-1970   150.15
73-1            6-3-1973    150.01;
                            150.02
                            51.01;
1973-2          6-18-1973   51.02;
                            51.03
-               6-17-1974   150.01;
                            150.02
                            51.01;
76-1            4-19-1976   51.02;
                            51.03
1978-1          2-21-1978   34.02
1978-2          6-5-1978    31.005
1982-2          7-19-1982   130.03;
                            130.99
1982-2          7-2-1983    90.99
1982-3          9-27-1983   32.03
1984-1          1-11-1984   31.133
1984-3          6-11-1984   70.20;
                            70.99
1984-4          7-23-1984   51.01
1985-           1-22-1985   114.01—
                            114.05
1985-1          1-2-1985    31.012
86-1            1-7-1986    32.15
Council         3-25-1986   TSO Table VI
86-             4-15-1986   31.182
1986-           4-15-1986   31.004;
                            34.04
-               1- -1989    31.009
                            51.01;
-               10-31-1989  51.02;
                            51.03
93-1            2-23-1993   TSO Table VI
93-6            6-1-1993    TSO Table VI
                            32.40—
94-8            8-23-1994   32.47;
                            TSO Table VI
96-4            10-15-1996  34.03
97-7            7-8-1997    TSO Table VI
98-07           9-1-1998    32.24
Council 99-03   4- -1999    TSO Table VI
-               6-26-2001   TSO Table VII
2001-15         9-25-2001   Ch. 71, Schd. I
-               11-20-2001  TSO Table VIII
                            113.01—
                            113.12;
                            113.25—
                            113.33;
2002-03         - -2002     113.50;
                            113.52;
                            113.65;
                            113.66;
                            113.67
2002-07         8- -2002    31.009
2003-03         3-21-2003   TSO Table VI
2003-06         7-15-2003   TSO Table I
2003-07         7-15-2003   Ch. 71, Schd. II
2003-11         10-21-2003  70.22
2004-09         11-23-2004  33.03
2005-4          3-18-2005   91.36
2005-05         4-5-2005    32.19
2005-06         4-5-2005    32.18
2005-07         4-19-2005   TSO Table II
2005-11         8-9-2005    31.135
                            50.15—
2006-04         9-18-2006   50.27;
                            50.99
2006-07         12-22-2006  150.02
2007-03         5-29-2007   112.01—
                            112.07
Council 2007-04 10-23-2007  32.23
2008-03         4-15-2008   TSO Table VI
2009-007        7-6-2009    TSO Table III
Council 2009-03 7-28-2009   33.01
Council 2009-04 7-28-2009   33.01
2010-004        2-1-2010    TSO Table IV
2010-01         3-2-2010    Ch. 71, Schd. II
04              8-3-2010    31.165
                            130.30—
2010-07         11-23-2010  130.33;
                            130.99
2011-01         1-18-2011   TSO Table IV
2012-01         4-10-2012   TSO Table III
2012-02         5-22-2012   31.006
                            93.01—
2012-4          7-31-2012   93.15;
                            93.99
2012-5          7-31-2012   113.45—
                            113.50
2012-7          9-11-2012   Ch. 71, Schd. II
2013-01         3-26-2013   130.15;
                            130.99
2013-05         5-21-2013   70.05
                            92.01—
2013-06         6-18-2013   92.07;
                            92.99
2013-08         7-16-2013   TSO Table III
Council 2014-01 1-28-2014   TSO Table VII
2014-02         3-11-2014   TSO Table VI
2014-03         3-11-2014   Ch. 71, Schd. I
                            32.16;
2014-04         5-5-2014    32.99;
                            TSO Table VI
Council 2014-09 11-25-2014  33.02
2016-1          1-12-2016   31.181;
                            32.26
2016-03         7-12-2016   TSO Table VI
2017-01         1-24-2017   32.17
2017-02         8-8-2017    Ch. 71, Schd. I
2017-03         8-22-2017   35.30—
                            35.35
06-2017         11-14-2017  TSO Table III
2018-03         6-12-2018   Ch. 72, Schd. I;
                            TSO Table VII
2018-04         6-26-2018   TSO Table VI
2018-05         7-24-2018   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2018-07         9-18-2018   32.22
2018-09         10-16-2018  Ch. 71, Schd. II
2019-02         6-11-2019   32.20
Council 2019-04 11-26-2019  31.008
2019-05         12-23-2019  31.007
2020-02         2-18-2020   31.010
2020-03         3-31-2020   TSO Table III
2021-02         3-2-2021    Ch. 71, Schd. I
2021-03         3-30-2021   150.01
2021-5          4-13-2021   31.164;
                            31.180
2021-07         8-3-2021    Ch. 71, Schd. II
2021-11         11-23-2021  31.162
2021-13         12-7-2021   30.02
2021-14         12-7-2021   30.02
2022-04         4-26-2022   Ch. 71, Schd. II
2022-07         6-21-2022   32.60—
                            32.65
2022-08         7-5-2022    31.161
2022-11         9-13-2022   TSO Table III
2022-12         9-27-2022   TSO Table III
2022-13         9-27-2022   Ch. 71, Schd. II
2022-14         9-27-2022   TSO Table III
2022-15         10-25-2022  TSO Table VI
2022-17         11-7-2022   TSO Table VI
2022-19         11-6-2022   32.21;
                            TSO Table VI
05-2023         5-9-2023    TSO Table III
2023-06         7-18-2023   32.27
2023-07         8-29-2023   Ch. 71, Schd. I;
                            Ch. 71, Schd. II
2023-08         8-29-2023   TSO Table VI
                            151.01—
                            151.14;
                            151.25—
2024-04         7- -2024    151.30;
                            151.45—
                            151.49;
                            151.99
2024-05         8-13-2024   32.27
2024-6          8-27-2024   Ch. 71, Schd. II
2014-09         10-22-2024  32.23
2024-10         11-4-2024   31.031
2024.13         11-19-2024  TSO Table III
2024-14         11-19-2024  TSO Table III
                           
 
