DOLTON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 25-005, passed 10-6-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
***** TABLE OF CONTENTS *****
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      
30.   VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICIALS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
36.   EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
      
37.   GENERAL VILLAGE POLICIES
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      
50.   COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
      
51.   GARBAGE AND WASTE
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   VEHICLE LICENSES
      
72.   VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
      
73.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
74.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
75.   ABANDONED, HAZARDOUS AND UNLAWFUL VEHICLES
      
76.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
77.   PEDESTRIANS
      
78.   RAILROADS
      
79.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
80.   PARKING SCHEDULES
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   AIR AND WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   PARADES AND OPEN AIR MEETINGS
      
94.   PUBLIC LIBRARY
      
95.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
96.   SECURITY AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
      
97.   LEAD-BEARING SUBSTANCES
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
      
111.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
      
113.   AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS
      
114.   COMMERCIAL SALES AND SERVICES
      
115.   PERSONAL SALES
      
116.   VEHICLE-RELATED BUSINESSES
      
117.   CONTRACTORS AND BUILDING SERVICES
      
118.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
119.   ADVERTISERS AND ADVERTISING DISTRIBUTORS
      
120.   FOOD AND FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
121.   HEALTH CARE FACILITIES AND SERVICES
      
122.   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
      
123.   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
      
124.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
125.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS AND DECENCY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
      
134.   OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
      
135.   OFFENSES CONCERNING WEAPONS
      
136.   OFFENSES CONCERNING INTOXICANTS
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      
150.   OFFICIAL VILLAGE PLAN
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   FIRE CODE; PREVENTION
      
153.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
154.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
155.   SURFACE DRAINAGE AREAS
      
156.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
157.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
158.   ZONING
      
159.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
160.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS; EMINENT DOMAIN
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES; VARIANCES
      
III.   SUBDIVISION PLANS, PLATS
      
IV.   VACATIONS, EASEMENTS AND THE LIKE
      
V.   IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
      
VI.   REDEVELOPMENT AREAS AND ENTERPRISE ZONES; TAX INCENTIVES
      
VII.   PROPERTY SALES, PURCHASES AND TRANSFERS
      
VIII.   AGREEMENTS, FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
      
IX.   COVID-RELATED FUNDS
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
      
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
      
References to Prior Code
      
References to Resolutions
      
References to Ordinances
***** DIRECTORY OF OFFICIALS
of the
VILLAGE OF DOLTON, ILLINOIS *****
Mayor
Jason House
Village Clerk
Alison Key
Board of Trustees
Kiana Belcher
Stanley Brown
Tammie Brown
Andrew Holmes
Brittney Norwood
Edward Steave
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
General Code Construction
   
10.001   Title of code; acceptance
   
10.002   Definitions
   
10.003   Section headings
   
10.004   Rules of construction
   
10.005   Official time
   
10.006   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.007   Reference to other sections
   
10.008   Conflicting provisions
   
10.009   Amendments to code; alterations
   
10.010   Severability
   
10.011   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.012   Errors and omissions
   
10.013   Ordinances repealed
   
10.014   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.015   Ordinances saved
   
10.016   Technical codes
   
10.017   Historical and statutory references
   
10.018   Copies of code
   
10.019   Court proceedings
Administrative Adjudication and Enforcement of Code Violations
   
10.030   Adoption of state statute
   
10.031   Purpose
   
10.032   Creation of administrative adjudication system
   
10.033   Definitions
   
10.034   Administrative adjudication and enforcement composition
   
10.035   Code procedures
   
10.036   Subpoenas
   
10.037   Default
   
10.038   Continuances and representation at code hearings
   
10.039   Evidence at hearings
   
10.040   Findings, decisions, orders of Hearing Officer
   
10.041   Fines and sanctions
   
10.042   Administrative Review Law to apply
   
10.043   Enforcement of judgment
 
   
10.999   General penalty
GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION
§ 10.001 TITLE OF CODE; ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   Upon the adoption by the Board of Trustees, this village code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official code of the
village. This village code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
“Dolton Village Code” and it is hereby published by authority of the Board of
Trustees and shall be kept up to date as provided in §
10.009(A) of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this village code by title in any legal document.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
   (B)   This village code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall
hereafter be received without further proof in all courts and in all
administrative tribunals of the state as the ordinances of the village of
general and permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.013 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons, but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Cook County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Cook County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   FEE. A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the village shall begin on May 1 of the
calendar year and end on April 30 of the succeeding calendar year.
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of the state, or of any town or county of the state, and all
bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Dolton.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   MUNICIPAL YEAR. The municipal year of the village shall be the same as the
fiscal year as set forth herein.
   NUISANCE. Any thing offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS and EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village
officer or employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed
by the words “of the Village of Dolton” and shall be taken to mean the officer
or employee of the village having the title mentioned or performing the duties
indicated.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Dolton. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, such terms shall be
understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Art. VII of the Constitution of
the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Art. VII of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of Dolton, Illinois.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Commerce
Security Act, 5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.003 SECTION HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this village code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify
or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 10.004 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever any word in any section of this village code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this village code by words importing the
singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or
persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided that, these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this village code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   (B)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
this code shall be liberally construed in the order that the true intent of the
President and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
   (C)   (1)   The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the village
has been changed in the content of this village code to “title”, “chapter”,
“section” and/or “division” or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only.
      (2)   Such change to the village’s ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.005 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.006 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.007 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.008 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.009 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Any ordinance amending this village code shall set forth the title,
chapter and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this
shall constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement
pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this
village code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be
immediately forwarded to the codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be
prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this village code.
Each such replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted
in each individual copy of the village code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change,
replace or deface in any way any section or any page of this village code in
such a manner that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or
omitted. Replacement pages may be inserted according to the official
instructions when so authorized by the Village Board. The Village Clerk shall
see that the replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies
maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any person having in his or her custody
an official copy of the village code shall make every effort to maintain said
code in an up-to-date and efficient manner. He or she shall see to the
immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are delivered to him
or her or made available to him or her through the office of the Village Clerk.
      (2)   Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the village and shall
be returned to the office of the Clerk when directed to do so by order of the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4)
Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 10.010 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this village code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining potions of this code, of any part thereof.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees hereby declares that it would have
passed each section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, divisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
   (B)   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this village code is in conflict with any statute of the state, such conflict
shall be resolved in favor of the village being a Home Rule Unit of Government
by virtue of Art. VII, § 6, of the 1970 Constitution of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-5)
§ 10.011 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   (A)   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to
any office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   These references shall also include the designee or agent of the
officer or office, unless the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.012 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.013 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this
village code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this village
code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
village; and all special ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.014 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not
limited to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating
to boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances
granting special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and
ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants;
salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys
or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
   (B)   No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this village code or
by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as the village code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this village code shall be
considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.015 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.016 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.017 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.004 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the state’s Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.018 COPIES OF CODE.
   (A)   Distribution of copies. All of the printed copies of this code
belonging to the village shall be deposited with the Village Clerk who shall
deliver one copy thereof to the President and one to each member of the Board
of Trustees and copies to such other persons as the President and Board of
Trustees may direct.
   (B)   Presentation of copies. The President and Board of Trustees shall have
the power to extend or reciprocate courtesies of other municipalities by
presenting them with a copy of this code, bound at the expense of the village,
as to them seem suitable.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5) (Ord. passed 3-16-1971)
§ 10.019 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable.
      (2)   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action
now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this village code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CODE VIOLATIONS
§ 10.030 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTE.
   The village adopts 65 ILCS 5/1-2-2-1 et seq. in its current form and as it
may be amended from time to time for adjudication of the village code
violations to the extent permitted by the state’s Constitution.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.031 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide a fair and efficient
method of enforcement of village municipal regulations and ordinances as set
forth in the code of ordinances of the village, as may be allowed by law and
directed by ordinance, through the administrative adjudication.
   (B)   The establishment of the administrative adjudication of municipal code
violations does not preclude the village or the Mayor and the Board of Trustees
from using other methods to enforce the provisions of the municipal code and
village ordinances.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.032 CREATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEM.
   There is hereby established the municipal ordinance adjudication and
enforcement system having the power to enforce all municipal ordinances as from
time to time authorized by the Village Board, except for any offense under the
state’s Vehicle Code or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation
governing the movement of vehicles and except for any reportable offense under
§ 6-204 of the state’s Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/6-204 as now or hereafter
amended, and offenses covered by §§ 
70.40 through
70.53 of this code of ordinances relative to administrative adjudication and
enforcement of vehicular standing and parking violations.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.033 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEGED VIOLATOR. Any person charged with violating any ordinance or law in
this code of ordinances, as amended.
   BUILDING CODE. Any municipal ordinance, law, housing or building code or
zoning ordinance that establishes construction, plumbing, heating, electrical,
fire prevention, sanitation or other health and safety standards that are
applicable to structures in a municipality.
   CODE. Any municipal ordinance or law listed in or adopted by this code of
ordinances, as amended.
   HEARING OFFICER. An attorney who meets the qualifications enumerated in 65
ILCS 5/1-2.1-4, who is an agent of the village, other than an inspector or law
enforcement officer, whose duty it is to:
      (1)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or
not a code violation exists;
      (2)   Hear testimony and accept evidence from the inspector, the building
or property owner and all interested parties relevant to the existence of a
code violation;
      (3)   Preserve and authenticate the transcript and record of the hearing
and all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      (4)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision and order stating
whether a code violation exists.
   INSPECTOR. A full-time or part-time village employee whose duties include
the inspection or examination of structures or property in the village to
determine if zoning or other code violations exist.
   NON-BUILDING CODE. Any ordinance or law listed in or adopted by this code of
ordinances, as amended, except for those ordinances or laws which establish
construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention, sanitation or
other health and safety standards that are applicable to structures in a
municipality.
   OFFICER. A full- or part-time village Police Department officer or Animal
Control Officer.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.034 ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Ordinance Enforcement Department shall be composed of a Hearing
Officer, an Ordinance Enforcement Administrator, system coordinator/computer
operator and hearing room security personnel, with the power and authority as
hereinafter set forth.
      (1)   (a)   The Hearing Officer, prior to appointment, must be an
attorney licensed to practice law for at least three years in the state. The
Hearing Officer shall preside over all adjudicatory hearings and shall have the
following powers and duties:
            1.   To administer oaths;
            2.   To hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the village code violation;
            3.   To issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give
relevant testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
            4.   To preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
            5.   To issue and sign a written finding, decision and order
stating whether a village code violation exists;
            6.   To impose penalties, sanctions or such other relief consistent
with applicable village code provisions and assessing costs upon finding a
party liable for the charged violation; except, however, that, in no event
shall the Hearing Officer have authority to impose a penalty of incarceration;
and
            7.   To review final determination of liability for an ordinance
violation in accordance with the administrative review procedures hereinafter
set forth.
         (b)   Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings
under this subchapter, the Hearing Officer shall have successfully completed a
formal training program which includes the following:
            1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearings over which the Hearing Officer shall preside;
            2.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that
he or she will adjudicate;
            3.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
            4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on
evidence and issuing final orders.
      (2)   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator is authorized and directed
to:
         (a)   Operate and manage the Ordinance Enforcement Department;
         (b)   Adopt, distribute and process all notices as may be required
under this article or as may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of
this subchapter;
         (c)   Collect moneys paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a
final determination of liability;
         (d)   Certify copies of final determinations of an ordinance violation
adjudicated pursuant to this subchapter, and any factual reports verifying the
final determination of any violation liability which was issued in accordance
with this subchapter;
         (e)   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate
and maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created; and
         (f)   Collect unpaid fines and penalties through private collection
agencies and direct the pursuit of all post-judgment remedies available by law.
      (3)   The system coordinator/computer operator is hereby authorized and
directed to operate and maintain the computer programs for the administrative
adjudication system of the Ordinance Enforcement Department hereby created, on
a day-to-day basis, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Input of violation notice information;
         (b)   Establishing hearing dates and notice dates;
         (c)   Record fine and penalty assessment and payments;
         (d)   Issue payment receipts;
         (e)   Issue succeeding notice of hearing dates and/or final
determination of liability; and
         (f)   Keep accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, judgments entered, sanctions imposed,
if any, fines and penalties assessed and paid.
      (4)   All hearing room security personnel shall be qualified off-duty,
full-time, part-time or auxiliary police officers who are hereby authorized and
directed to:
         (a)   Maintain hearing room decorum;
         (b)   Have and execute authority as is granted to courtroom deputies
of the Circuit Court; and
         (c)   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required
and as directed by the Hearing Officer or Ordinance Enforcement Administrator.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint persons to hold the
positions above set forth. Other than the Hearing Officer, one person may hold
and fulfill the requirements of one or more of the above stated positions and
compensation for each of the above stated positions shall be as approved by the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006; Ord. 15-025, passed 7-6-2015; Ord. 19-001,
passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Enumerated State Vehicle Code traffic violations, see 625 ILCS
§ 10.035 CODE PROCEDURES.
   The system of administrative adjudication of any ordinance violation
authorized to be adjudicated hereunder, shall be in accordance with the
following procedures.
   (A)   Violation notice of any ordinance violation shall be issued by the
persons authorized under this village code and shall contain information and
shall be certified and have evidentiary admissibility as is hereinafter set
forth.
   (B)   All police officers, as well as other specifically appointed
individuals of any village department shall have the authority to issue
violation notices.
   (C)   Any individual authorized hereby to issue violation notices and who
detects an ordinance violation authorized to be adjudicated under this
subchapter shall issue notice of violation thereof and shall make service
thereof as is hereinafter set forth.
   (D)   When police officers or other individuals authorized to issue code
violations find a code violation, he or she shall note the violation on a
multiple copy violation notice and report form. The ordinance violation notice
shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance);
      (2)   The particular provision of the ordinance violated;
      (3)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
      (4)   The names of witnesses to the violation, if any;
      (5)   The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice;
      (6)   The date and location of the adjudicating hearing of ordinance
violations, the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to
be held and the penalties for failure to appear at the hearing; and
      (7)   Any alternative procedure, if available, in lieu of appearing at
the hearing, including, but not limited to, the payment of a fine and penalty.
   (E)   (1)   The violation report form shall be forwarded to the Code
Adjudication Office Department where a docket number shall be stamped on all
copies of the report, and a hearing date noted in the blank spaces provided for
that purpose on the form.
      (2)   The hearing date shall not be less than ten days, nor more than 40
days, after the violation is reported by the police officer, Code Enforcement
Officer or Fire Inspector.
   (F)   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the files
of the Code Adjudication Officer and shall be part of the record of hearing,
one copy of the report form shall be returned to the individual representing
the village in the case so that he or she may prepare evidence of the code
violation for the presentation at the hearing on the date indicated, and one
copy of the report form shall be served by first class mail on the defendant
along with a summons commanding the defendant to appear at the hearing.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.036 SUBPOENAS.
   At any time prior to the hearing date, the Hearing Officer assigned to hear
the case may, at the request of the individual representing the village in the
case or the Prosecuting Attorney for the municipality, or the defendant or his
or her attorney, issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give
testimony at the hearing.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.037 DEFAULT.
   If, on the date set for hearing, the defendant or his or her attorney fail
to appear, the Hearing Officer may find the defendant in default and shall
proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relative to the existence of a
code violation.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.038 CONTINUANCES AND REPRESENTATION AT CODE HEARINGS.
   No continuances shall be authorized by the Hearing Officer in proceedings
under this subchapter, except in cases where a continuance is absolutely
necessary to protect the rights of the defendant. Lack of preparation shall not
be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance authorized by a Hearing Officer
under this subchapter shall not exceed 45 days. The case for the municipality
may be presented by a Prosecuting Attorney for the village, and the case for
the defendant may be presented by the defendant his or her attorney, or any
other agent or representative.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.039 EVIDENCE AT HEARINGS.
   At the hearing, a Hearing Officer shall preside and shall hear testimony and
accept the evidence relevant to the existence or non-existence of a code
violation. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply to hearings authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.040 FINDINGS, DECISIONS, ORDERS OF HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing whether or
not a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall be
designated as findings, decision and order. The findings, decision and order
shall include the Hearing Officer’s finding of fact, a decision whether or not
a code violation exists based upon the findings of facts, and an order that
states the sanction or dismisses the case if a violation is not proved. A
monetary sanction for a violation under this subchapter shall not exceed the
amount provided for in 65 ILCS 5/1-2.1 in its current form and as amended from
time to time. A copy of the findings, decision and order shall be served on the
defendant within five days after they are issued; service shall be in the same
manner as the report form and summons are served under this subchapter.
   (B)   Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of fine money shall
be in the same manner as set forth in the code.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.041 FINES AND SANCTIONS.
   The village adopts by reference all current and future local ordinances, and
those provisions of Illinois Compiled Statutes governing property or zoning
codes applicable to structures or properties relative to construction,
plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention, sanitation and other health and
safety standards in the municipality, for its enforcement and adjudication
within the geographical boundaries of the village.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.042 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW TO APPLY.
   The findings, decision and order of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to
review in the Circuit Court of the county, and the provisions of the
Administrative Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq. as now or hereafter
amended), and all amendments and modifications thereto, and the rules adopted
pursuant thereto are adopted and shall apply to and govern every action for the
judicial review of the final findings, decision and order of a Hearing Officer
under this subchapter.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.043 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the state’s Administrative
Review Law are a debt due and owing the municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
state’s Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of a
code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision and order of the Hearing Officer may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering a defendant to correct a code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred by a
municipality to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney’s
fees, court costs and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure,
after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a Hearing Officer,
shall be a debt due and owing the municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a Hearing
Officer pursuant to this division (C), the municipality shall provide notice to
the defendant that states that the defendant shall appear at a hearing before
the administrative Hearing Officer to determine whether the defendant has
failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall set the date for such a
hearing, which shall not be less than seven days from the date that notice is
served. If notice is served by mail, the seven-day period shad begin to run on
the date that the notice was deposited in the mail.
   (D)   Upon being recorded in the manner required by Art. XII of the Code of
Civil Procedure, being 735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq. as now or hereafter amended,
or by the Uniform Commercial Code, being 810 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended, a lien shall be imposed on the real estate or personal
estate, or both, of the defendant in the amount of any debt due and owing the
municipality under this section.
   (E)   The lien may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien
pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. A Hearing Officer
may set aside any judgment entered by default and set a new hearing date, upon
a petition filed within 21 days after the issuance of the order of default, if
the Hearing Officer determines that the petitioner’s failure to appear at the
hearing was for good cause or at any time if the petitioner establishes that
the municipality did not provide proper service of process. If any judgment is
set aside pursuant to this division (E), the Hearing Officer shall have
authority to enter an order extinguishing any lien which has been recorded for
any debt due and owing the municipality as a result of the vacated default
judgment.
(Ord. 06-367, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 10.999 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty; cost of collection.
      (1)   Whenever, in this village code, the doing of any act or the
omission to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this
village code and there shall be no fine or penalty declared for such breach,
any person who shall be convicted of any such breach shall be fined not less
than $50, nor more than $500, for such offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
      (2)   In the event the village retains attorneys and/or collection agents
for the purpose of collecting any default in payment of any fine or penalty or
installment of that fine or penalty, such fees or costs incurred by the village
with respect to attorneys and/or private collection agents retained by the
village shall be charged to the offender.
   (B)   Application of provisions.
      (1)   (a)   The penalty provided in this section shall be applicable to
every section of this village code the same as though it were a part of each
and every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section
of this village code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or
where any action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to
be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
         (b)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this village code.
      (2)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of this village code, the prosecuting
officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense; provided that, the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this village code and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
      (4)   Whenever in this village code, a minimum but no maximum fine or
penalty is imposed, the court may, in its discretion, fine the offender any sum
exceeding the minimum fine or penalty, but not exceeding $500.
      (5)   In case of amendment of any section of this village code containing
the provisions for which a penalty is provided in such other section, such
other section shall be held to relate to the amended section or the amending
section, whether re-enacted in the amendatory ordinance or not, unless such
penalty is specifically repealed therein.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   Liability of officers. No provision of this village code designating
the duties of any officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such
officer or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to
perform such duty, unless the intention of the Board of Trustees to impose such
fine or penalty on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly
expressed in the section creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
   (D)   Citations and fines.
      (1)   Minor offenses enumerated. The term MINOR OFFENSES as applicable in
this code refers to the following violations of the code of the village:
Dogs running at large
Failure to display valid vehicle tag
Improper storage of garbage (cans)
No vehicle tag
Parking violations as follows:
   Double parking
   Parking after hours
   Parking improperly
   Parking in a crosswalk
   Parking in an alley so as to obstruct free movement of vehicles
   Parking in fire zone
   Parking in no parking area
   Parking on sidewalk or parkway
   Parking overtime in metered zone
   Parking so as to block the use of a driveway
   Parking within 15 feet of a fire hydrant
   Parking within 20 feet of a crosswalk or intersection
   Parking within 20 feet of driveway entrance to a Fire Department station
   Parking within 50 feet of railroad tracks
Regulating and licensing businesses
Regulating and licensing dogs
Uncovered garbage cans
 
      (2)   Prima facie proof. The fact that a vehicle which is illegally
parked under the ordinances of the village is registered with the Secretary of
State in the name of a person; or, in the alternative, in the event that a
vehicle sticker is issued by a municipality in the name of a person, shall be
considered prima facie proof that such person was in control of the vehicle at
the time of such parking. The fact that any garbage or garbage can is on
grounds under the dominion of a person or entity is prima facie evidence of
ownership or control of said grounds, and the same is true of any dog on the
grounds of or under the dominion of any person or entity.
      (3)   Issuance of citation; payment of fine.
         (a)   A police officer of the village, instead of filing a complaint
in the Circuit Court of the county may, in the first instance, issue to such a
violator of a minor offense as defined herein a citation, also known as a
ticket, which citation informs said violator that he or she has violated one or
more specified ordinances, and giving said violator the alternative of making
payment of the penalty, also known as a fine, to the Police Department at the
police station of the village in the minimum amount applicable to said
violation as set forth in division (D)(6) below; and advising the violator to
sign his or her name and address to the plea and waiver of hearing and jury
trial in the space provided on the citation; and for said violator to mail,
bring or send the citation with the payment therefor to the Police Department
within a period to be specified in said citation, not more than seven days from
the time said alleged offense was committed.
         (b)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator that if the
violator does not wish to make payment on a guilty plea as aforesaid, that the
violator shall bring the citation to the village’s Police Department within
seven days after its issuance, and the Police Department, through a member
designated by the Chief of Police, shall arrange for a time and place for
hearing of the alleged violation before the Circuit Court of the county.
      (4)   Receipt for moneys. The Police Department shall issue a receipt for
the money so received and promptly remit said amount to the Village Treasurer
to be credited to the proper municipal fund.
      (5)   Failure to pay fine. In the event that the person to whom said
citation is issued fails to settle and pay said violation claim within the
prescribed time, or within a period of time specified in a final notice (if one
is served upon him or her) or fails to bring said citation to the Police
Department to arrange for a time and place for hearing on said alleged
violation, then the Police Chief is authorized to cause a notice to appear to
be served upon said alleged violator and is authorized to file a complaint and
to prosecute the same in the Circuit Court of the county.
      (6)   Schedule of fines. In the event that payment is not made within the
time prescribed on the final notice, and a notice to appear has been served and
a complaint filed in the Circuit Court of the county, payment of any fine and
costs shall be in such amounts as may be determined and established by the
Circuit Court of the county.
Description Fee Final Notice
Description                                                 Fee  Final Notice
Abandoned vehicle                                           $500 $1,000
Accumulation of waste on premises (commercial)                   $500
Accumulation of waste on premises (residential)                  $200
Barking dog (add excessive)                                 $100 $250
Discharge of fireworks F2701.1 (BOCA) (illegal)             $500 $1,000
Dog license                                                 $50  $250
Dog running at large                                        $500 $1,000
Double parked                                               $250 $500
Excessive noise                                             $750 $1,500/$3,000
Failure to display house number (front or alley)                 $200
Failure to obtain alarm permit                                   $80
Illegal parked vehicle for sale                             $250 $500
Illegal parking in cab or bus loading zone                  $250 $500
Improper parking in driveway (obstruct sidewalk)                 $100
Improper parking in loading zone                            $250 $500
No valid vehicle registration plates                        $100 $250
No valid vehicle registration stickers                      $100 $250
Overtime parking in time limit zone                         $100 $250
Parked alongside or opposite street excavation              $100 $250
Parked blocking driveway                                         $100
Parked in a crosswalk                                            $100
Parked in alley                                             $100 $250
Parked in alley so as to obstruct free movement of vehicles $250 $500
Parked in an intersection                                   $100 $250
Parked in designated handicapped area                       $250 $500
Parked in no parking zone                                   $250 $500
   (Wrong side of street)                                $100 $250
Parked in safety zone                                       $250 $500
Parked on bridge or under viaduct                           $250 $500
Parked on sidewalk or parkway                               $100 $250
Parked within 15 ft. of fire hydrant                        $250 $500
Parked within 20 ft. of fire station                        $250 $500
Parked within 20 ft. of crosswalk or intersection (paint)   $100 $250
Parked within 50 ft. of railroad crossing                   $250 $500
Parking after 2 in. of snow fall (on snow route)            $250 $500
Parking after hours                                         $100 $250
Parking in fire lane                                        $500 $1,000
Pedestrian walking on roadway                               $50  $100
Possession of open alcoholic liquor in public place         $500 $1,000
Putting garbage out too early (5:00 p.m. the night before)
(note: also cans to be picked up by 7:00 p.m. day of             $100
collection)
Regulating and license business                                  $200
Residential parking                                              $250
Restriction of truck parking (pick up trucks excluded)      $250 $500
Vehicle repairs on street (nuisance)                        $250 $500
Vehicle tag (sticker) not properly displayed                     $250
Waste containers required                                        $150
   (Detail)                                              $100 $200
Waste material to be wrapped, bound, stacked                $100 $200
Weeds (height 8 in.)                                        $500 $150
Weeds (nuisance)                                            $500 $150
 
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
      (7)   Traffic violations imposed. In the event of a finding of a
violation of any of the village’s traffic related ordinances as determined
through the administrative adjudication process in Traffic Court, the
adjudicator shall assess an administrative processing fee of $50 in addition to
imposing a fine.
(Ord. 88-148, passed 8-23-1988; Ord. 07-416, passed 9-17-2007; Ord. 13-020,
passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 17-028, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 18-015, passed 12-3-2018;
Ord. 23-008, passed 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.001   Village seal
§ 11.001 VILLAGE SEAL.
   (A)   Description. The seal provided and used by and for the village (the
impression of which is seal and incorporated 12-29-1892 and the inscription
“Village of Dolton, Cook County, Ill.” around the outer edge), which seal,
represented as aforesaid, is declared to be the seal of the village.
   (B)   Custody of seal. The village seal shall be and remain in the custody
of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICIALS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
36.   EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
      
37.   GENERAL VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
Village President
   
30.001   Election; term of office; qualifications
   
30.002   Oath
   
30.003   Bond and salary
   
30.004   Powers and duties
   
30.005   Vice-President and Interim President
   
30.006   Mayor Pro tem
Board of Trustees
   
30.020   Composition; election and term; qualifications
   
30.021   Oath
   
30.022   Bond and compensation
   
30.023   Powers and duties
   
30.024   Meetings
   
30.025   President; voting powers
   
30.026   Rules and order of business
   
30.027   Ordinances, resolutions and motions
   
30.028   Restriction on holding other office
Cross-reference:
   Village Clerk, see §§
31.020 through
31.027
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
§ 30.001 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The President shall be elected to office for a four-year term, according to
the method provided by statute, and until his or her successor is elected and
qualified. He or she shall be a citizen of the United States, a qualified
elector and shall have resided within the corporate limits of the village at
least one year next preceding the election at which he or she is a candidate.
No person shall be eligible for the office of President if he or she is a
defaulter to the village.
(1988 Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 30.002 OATH.
   The President shall take the customary oath of office before entering upon
the duties of his or her office.
(1988 Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 30.003 BOND AND SALARY.
   (A)   Bond. The President shall, before he or she enters upon the duties of
his or her office, execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of $3,000
with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees and conditioned as
required by statute. He or she shall file the same with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Salary. The compensation and expenses of the President shall be as may
be provided for in the annual Appropriation (Budget) Ordinance and Resolution
Setting Salaries, Compensation, Expense Accounts and other Remuneration for
Employees of the Village of Dolton, as from time to time amended. The corporate
authority may fix the salary of all officers who hold elective office for a
definite term in an ordinance other than the appropriation or budget ordinance.
Said compensation, as fixed by ordinance, shall neither be increased, nor
diminished, during that term and shall be fixed at least 180 days before a
general municipal election in which voting is held for that office.
(1988 Code, § 1-5-3) (Ord. passed 12-14-1976; Ord. 00-153, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 30.004 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General. The President shall be the executive officer of the village
and shall devote as much of his or her time to the duties of his or her office
as a faithful and efficient discharge thereof may require. He or she shall
perform all duties prescribed by law, including the village ordinances, and
shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
   (B)   Approval and veto of ordinances, resolutions and motions.
      (1)   Ordinances. The President shall carefully inspect all ordinances
passed by the Board of Trustees and fix his or her official signature to such
as he or she may approve, and return them to the Village Clerk. Such ordinances
as he or she shall not approve he or she shall return to the Board of Trustees
with his or her objections thereto in writing, at the next regular meeting of
the Board of Trustees occurring not less than five days after the passage
thereof. Such veto may extend to any one or more items or appropriations
contained in any ordinance making appropriations, or to the entire ordinance.
In case the veto only extends to a part of such ordinance, the residue thereof
shall take effect and be in force. In case the President shall fail to return
any ordinance with his or her objections thereto by the time aforesaid, he or
she shall be deemed to have approved such ordinance and the same shall take
effect accordingly.
      (2)   Resolutions and motions. All resolutions or motions, as follows,
passed by the Board of Trustees, shall be deposited with the Village Clerk. If
the Mayor approves of them, he or she shall sign them. Those of which he or she
disapproves, he or she shall return to the Board of Trustees, with his or her
objections thereto in writing, at the next regular meeting of the Board of
Trustees, occurring not less than five days after the passage thereof. Such
veto may extend to any one or more items or appropriations contained in any
resolution and motion making appropriations, or to the entire resolution and
motion. In case the veto only extends to a part of such resolution and motion,
the residue thereof shall take effect and be in force. In case the President
shall fail to return any resolution and motion with his or her objections
thereto by the time aforesaid, he or she shall be deemed to have approved such
resolution and motion and the same shall take effect accordingly:
         (a)   Which create any liability against the village;
         (b)   Which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of the
village’s money; or
         (c)   To sell any village property.
   (C)   Signature.
      (1)   Sign commissions. The President shall issue certificate of
appointment to all persons appointed to office. The certificates shall be
issued under the corporate seal to the Village Clerk and shall also be signed
by the Village Clerk.
      (2)   Sign warrants. The President shall sign all warrants drawn upon the
Village Treasurer. The warrant shall state the particular fund and the
appropriation to which the warrant is chargeable and the person to whom
payable. The Village Clerk and the Village Treasurer shall countersign the
warrant.
      (3)   Authorize another to affix his or her signature.
         (a)   He or she may designate another to affix his or her signature to
any written instrument which is required to be signed by him or her. However,
before such action shall be effective, he or she shall send written notice to
the Board of Trustees of the person so designated stating:
            1.   The name of the person he or she has so designated;
            2.   What instrument the person will have authority to sign; and
            3.   Attaching to the notice a written signature of the President
executed by the designated person, with the signature of the person so
designated underneath.
         (b)   Such notice with the attached signatures shall be recorded in
the journal and then filed with the Village Clerk. When the signature of the
President is placed on a written instrument at the direction of the President
in the specified manner, the instrument in all respects shall be as binding on
the village as if signed by the President in person.
   (D)   Licenses and permits. The President shall sign all licenses and
permits granted, issued or ordered by the Board of Trustees or authorized by
the ordinances of the village, and may revoke any such license or permit for
causes provided by statute or ordinance.
   (E)   Release prisoners. The President may, for good and sufficient reason,
release any person imprisoned for violation of any village ordinance, and shall
report such release with the cause thereof to the Board of Trustees at its
first session thereafter.
   (F)   Examine records of village personnel. The President may, at any time,
examine and inspect the books, records and papers of any agent, employee or
officer of the village.
   (G)   Call for aid.
      (1)   The Village President may, when necessary, call on every male
inhabitant of the village over the age of 18 years to aid in enforcing the laws
and ordinances.
      (2)   The Village President may, subject to the authority of the
Governor, as commander in chief of the militia, call out the militia to aid in
suppressing riots and other disorderly conduct or to aid in carrying into
effect any law or ordinance.
   (H)   Reports and recommendations.
      (1)   The President shall, annually, give the Board of Trustees
information relative to the affairs of the village.
      (2)   From time to time, he or she may recommend for its consideration
such measures as he or she believes expedient.
   (I)   Conservator of the peace. He or she shall be a conservator of the
peace and shall have power to arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without
process, all persons who break the peace or are found violating any village
ordinance or any criminal law of the state. He or she shall have power to
commit arrested persons for examination and, if necessary, to detain arrested
persons in custody overnight or on Sunday in any safe place, or until they can
be brought before the proper judicial officer.
   (J)   Membership on boards and commissions.
      (1)   Electoral Board. He or she shall be a member of the Municipal
Officers Electoral Board for the purpose of hearing and passing upon objections
to nominating petitions filed in accordance with Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 46, para.
10-8, being 10 ILCS 5/10-8 as now or hereafter amended, and shall comply with
and perform those duties set forth in Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 46, para. 10-9 and
10-10, being 10 ILCS 5/10-9 and 5/10-10 as now or hereafter amended.
      (2)   Firefighters’ Pension Fund Board. He or she shall also be president
of the Board of Trustees of the Firefighters’ Pension Fund of the village.
   (K)   Liquor Control Commissioner. The President shall be the Liquor Control
Commissioner of the village and perform those duties stated in the Liquor
Control Ordinance.
   (L)   Administration of oaths. The President shall have power to administer
oaths and affirmations upon all lawful occasions.
   (M)   Rebate taxes. He or she shall have power to rebate or remit the
village taxes levied upon property listed or assessed for municipal taxation
whenever such property is destroyed by fire, in whole or in part, before the
levy thereon of the village taxes.
   (N)   Call for special election. In the event there is a vacancy in an
elective office and if for any reason there is not a quorum in office of the
corporate authorities, he or she may call for a special election to fill the
vacancy and, at the time of calling the special election, he or she shall
appoint the time and place, give notice thereof and appoint the judges of the
election.
   (O)   Execute leases and deeds.
      (1)   He or she shall have power to execute, on behalf of the village,
all leases entered into by the corporate authorities.
      (2)   He or she shall have the power, together with the Village Clerk, to
execute, on behalf of the village, all deeds of conveyance of real estate to
those parties purchasing said real estate, after the purchase price has been
paid or secured; provided, however, that, the deed of conveyance shall state
the purchase price of said property and be under the Corporate Seal.
   (P)   Duty under Diseased Animal Act. When called upon by the Director of
the state’s Department of Agriculture, the President has the duty to assist in
carrying out the provisions of the Diseased Animals Act of the state, being 510
ILCS 50/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
   (Q)   Acknowledgment of instruments. The President shall have the power to
take acknowledgments of deeds, mortgages, conveyances, releases, powers of
attorney or other writings relating to the sale, conveyance or other
disposition of real estate or any interest therein whereby the rights of any
person may be affected in law or in equity.
   (R)   Employment.
      (1)   Appoint. Except as otherwise expressly provided for by the rules
and regulations of the Civil Service Commission or the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners, or by contractual agreement entered into by the corporate
authorities, the President may appoint any employee necessary to carry into
effect the business of the village.
      (2)   Termination. Except as otherwise expressly provided for by the
rules and regulations of the Civil Service Commission or the Board of Fire and
Police Commissions, or by a contractual agreement entered into by the corporate
authorities, the President may terminate any employee whenever the President is
of the opinion that the interests of the village require termination.
(1988 Code, § 1-5-4) (Ord. 95-288, passed 8-1-1995; Ord. 99-100, passed 1-4-
1999; Ord. 13-001, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 15-011, passed 5-4-2015; Ord. 16-015,
passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 19-009, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 30.005 VICE-PRESIDENT AND INTERIM PRESIDENT.
   (A)   Office created; appointment. There is hereby created the office of
Vice-President of the Board of Trustee of the village. The Vice-President of
the Board of Trustees of the village shall be elected bi-annually by the Board
of Trustees from among its members. The Vice-President shall serve until his or
her successor is elected.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   If a vacancy, as defined in the Illinois Compiled Statutes, as
amended, occurs in the office of President, the Vice-President of the Board of
Trustees shall immediately become the Interim President and take the customary
oath of office prescribed by statute. The Interim President, having been duly
sworn, shall immediately assume and perform the duties and possess all the
right and powers of the President until the Board of Trustees of the village
shall meet and elect one of their members Acting President.
      (2)   When a Trustee Vice-President assumes the role of Interim
President, the Trustee Vice- President designated as Interim President shall
continue to vote in his or her capacity as Trustee Vice- President. The Interim
President remains Trustee Vice-President and no Trustee vacancy is created by
the Trustee Vice-President assuming the position of Interim President.
      (3)   In the temporary absence of the President and the President Pro
Tempore, the Board of Trustees shall elect from among its members the Presiding
Officer of the Board of Trustees. The Presiding Officer of the Board of
Trustees shall vote on all questions on which the vote is taken by yeas and
nays, his or her name being called last.
(Ord. 99-102, passed 1-4-1999; Ord. 99-122, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 30.006 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   The permanent position of Mayor Pro tem shall be filled by the Senior
Trustee, unless a majority of the corporate authorities choose another Trustee
to fill the role of Mayor Pro tem. The Mayor Pro tem, during the absence,
disability or any other incapability of the Mayor, including the inability or
refusal to perform the duties of Mayor, as prescribed by statute and the
ordinances of the village, shall have the powers and duties of the office of
Mayor (Village President) while the Mayor is absent or unable to perform his or
her duties, or refuses to perform those duties as prescribed by statute,
ordinance or case law.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) above allows for the Senior Trustee, or another
Trustee as appointed by the corporate authorities, to act as the Mayor during
his or her refusal to perform the duties of the Mayor’s office, including, but
not limited to, signing checks, payroll, contracts or other village documents
as authorized by the corporate authorities.
      (2)   The ministerial function of signing checks, payroll, contracts and
other official village documents shall vest in the Mayor Pro tem during the
Mayor’s refusal to perform and execute his or her duties, including, but not
limited to, the signing of checks, vouchers, payroll, contracts and other legal
documents approved by a majority of the corporate authorities at any regular or
special Board meeting of the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
      (3)   The name of the Mayor Pro tem appointed to fill this position shall
be added to the banks and financial institutions servicing the village.
(Ord. 24-005, passed 5- -2024; Ord. 24-008, passed 8-8-2024)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.020 COMPOSITION; ELECTION AND TERM; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of the President and Trustees. It
shall sit with open doors and shall keep a journal of its proceedings.
   (B)   The Village Board of Trustees shall consist of six Trustees, who shall
be elected at large. Three Trustees shall be elected at the appropriate
consolidated election every two years until their successors are elected and
have qualified. Trustees shall be elected to office according to the method
provided by statute for four-year terms. Each Trustee shall be a citizen of the
United States, a qualified elector and shall have resided within the corporate
limits of the village at least one year next preceding the election at which he
or she is a candidate. No person shall be eligible to act as a Trustee who is a
defaulter to the village.
(1988 Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.021 OATH.
   Before entering upon the duties of office, the members of the Board of
Trustees shall take the customary oath of office prescribed by statute.
(1988 Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 30.022 BOND AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Bond. No bond shall be required of any Trustee before entering upon
his or her duties.
   (B)   Compensation. The compensation and expenses for each Trustee hereafter
elected shall be as provided for in the annual Appropriation (Budget) Ordinance
and Resolution Setting Salaries, Compensation, Expense Accounts and other
Remuneration for Employees of the Village of Dolton, as from time to time
amended. The corporate authority may fix the salary of all officers who hold
elective office for a definite term in an ordinance other than the
appropriation or budget ordinance. Said compensation, as fixed by ordinance,
shall neither be increased nor diminished during that term and shall be fixed
at least 180 days before a general municipal election in which voting is held
for that office. Any Trustee serving as the Finance Committee Chairperson and/
or the Public Safety Committee Chairperson shall receive additional
compensation of $100 per month.
(1988 Code, § 1-6-3) (Ord. passed 12-14-1976; Ord. 00-153, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 30.023 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General. The Board of Trustees shall be the legislative department of
the village government and shall perform such duties and have such powers as
may be delegated by statute to it. It shall pass ordinances, resolutions and
motions.
   (B)   Conserve peace. Each Trustee shall be a conservator of the peace and
shall have power to arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process,
all persons who break the peace or are found violating any municipal ordinance
or any criminal law of the state. He or she shall have power to commit arrested
persons for examination and if necessary to detain arrested persons in custody
overnight or Sunday in any safe place or until they can be brought before the
proper judicial officer.
   (C)   Prescribe duties and fees. The Board of Trustees and the President may
prescribe the duties and fees of appointed officers and may require them to
execute whatever bonds are prescribed by ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 30.024 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The Village Board shall hold its regular meetings on
the first Monday of each month at 6:30 p.m. The Village Board will hold a
regular committee-of-the-whole meeting on the third Monday of each month at 6:
30 p.m. Absent an emergency, an item may not be placed on an agenda for Board
approval without that item having first been reviewed at a committee-of-the-
whole meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called by the President of
the village or any three Trustees upon at least 24 hours’ notice to all members
and the President. Such call shall be in writing duly signed and shall be
presented to the Clerk who shall immediately cause such notice to be served
upon the President and Trustees in person or by mail. If notice is served by
mail, such notice must be mailed in the village at least 48 hours prior to the
time of the scheduled meeting. Such notices shall describe in brief the nature
or object of the call. No special meeting may be held without such written
notice being served and any action taken in the absence of such written notice
shall be void; provided, however, that, if announcement of the date and time of
a special meeting is made at a regular meeting, the requirements of written
notice shall not be necessary. Any member of the corporate authorities absent
at such regular meeting shall receive written notice of said special meeting
from the Clerk.
   (C)   Place of meetings. The Village Board’s regular and special meetings
will be held in the Village Hall at 14014 Park Avenue, Dolton, Illinois. The
Board may consider, discuss and take final action on any matters through a
conference telephone call in lieu of an in-person meeting. Additionally, any
absent member of the Board may participate in any public in-person meeting
through the use of a telephonic conference call. The call shall be broadcast
over a speaker phone or other similar device and such broadcast shall be open
to the media and the public.
   (D)   Meetings open to the public. All meetings of the Board of Trustees or
any committee or commission of the village shall be meetings open to the
public, except for:
      (1)   Personnel or collective negotiating matters between the village and
its employees or their representatives;
      (2)   Meetings where the acquisition of real property is being considered
or where a pending court proceeding against or on behalf of any unit of the
village government is being considered; and
      (3)   Meetings to consider information regarding appointment, employment
or dismissal of any employee or officer; except that, no final action may be
taken at a closed session.
(1988 Code, § 1-6-5) (Ord. passed 8-24-1971; Ord. 96-307, passed 8-20-1996;
Ord. 15-034, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 19-010, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 30.025 PRESIDENT; VOTING POWERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village President shall be the presiding officer of the
Board of Trustees and shall have a vote only in the event of a tie or where
one-half of the Trustees elected have voted in favor of an ordinance,
resolution or motion, even though there is no tie vote, or where a vote greater
than a majority of the corporate authorities is required to adopt an ordinance,
resolution or motion. In each instance so specified, the President shall vote.
      (2)   Nothing in this division (A) shall deprive a President pro tem from
voting in his or her capacity as Trustee.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Trustees shall elect one of their
number to act as a temporary Chairperson. He or she shall have only the powers
of a presiding officer and a right to vote in his or her capacity as Trustee on
any ordinance, resolution or motion.
(1988 Code, § 1-6-6)
§ 30.026 RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in these rules on order of business for the
village, a home rule unit of government, the following terms have the meanings
ascribed to them in this subchapter unless the context clearly requires a
different meaning.
      APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE. An ordinance adopted by the Board of Trustees
appropriating funds for the purpose of conducting village business.
      APPROVED EXPENDITURE. The payment to a person, with or without approval
of the Board, in which the payment has been authorized or approved by a Trustee
or the Mayor and the payment is within the amount appropriated for such use.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES or BOARD. The legislative body of the village and the
repository of all municipal powers which have not been specifically delegated
to some other commission, office or department of the village.
      COMMITTEE. A committee of the Board and includes standing committees and
special committees. The procedural and notice requirements applicable to the
Board shall apply to COMMITTEES.
      COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON. The Trustee who serves as the Chair of the
committee.
      COMMITTEE MEMBER. A Trustee appointed to a committee.
      CONSTITUTION. The Constitution of the State of Illinois.
      CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The President and Trustees of the village, then
holding office.
      MAJORITY. A simple majority of those members present and voting on a
question. Unless otherwise specified with respect to a particular Board rule,
for purposes of determining the number of members present and voting on a
question, a “present” vote shall not be counted.
      MAJORITY OF THOSE APPOINTED. An absolute majority of the total number of
Trustees appointed to a committee.
      MAYOR PRO TEM. Trustee elected from the Trustees to serve as Mayor or
President in the absence of the Mayor or President.
      MEMBERS APPOINTED. The total number of Trustees appointed to a committee.
      MEMBERS ELECTED. The total number of Trustees entitled to be elected to
the Board, irrespective of the number of elected or appointed Trustees actually
serving in office so long as six Trustees are entitled to be elected pursuant
to state law.
      PASS. The voting member is yielding to the prevailing majority and shall
be counted as a vote with the prevailing side.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, joint stock association
or any federal, state or local government entity or agency, and includes any
trustee, receiver, assignee or personal representative of any of those
entities.
      PRESIDENT. The chief executive officer of the village. The PRESIDENT may
be referred to as the MAYOR. The PRESIDENT or the MAYOR performs all of the
duties prescribed by law, including municipal ordinances and resolutions and is
required to see that the laws ordinances and resolutions are faithfully
executed.
      TRUSTEE. Any of the duly elected or duly appointed members of the Board
of Trustees, but not the President or Mayor.
      VICE-CHAIRPERSON. The Trustee designated by the committee to serve as
Vice-Chairperson of a committee.
      VICE-PRESIDENT and INTERIM PRESIDENT. The Vice-President is appointed
elected bi-annually by the President Board of Trustees from among its members
to serve as the Interim President in the event of a vacancy in the office of
President of the Board of Trustees.
      VILLAGE CLERK. The elected official that is the keeper of the corporate
seal and all papers belonging to the village. The Village Clerk attends all
meetings of the corporate authorities and keeps full record of their
proceedings in the journal, or as prescribed by statute.
   (B)   Organization.
      (1)   Adoption of rules. At the commencement of a term or sometime
thereafter, the Board shall adopt new rules of organization and procedure by
ordinance setting forth such rules in their entirety. Such ordinance must be
adopted by a majority of the Board of Trustees. A majority may revise or amend
these rules of the Board of Trustees of the village.
      (2)   Powers and duties of the President.
         (a)   The President shall have those powers conferred upon him or her
by the Constitution, the state and any ordinances, resolutions or motions
adopted by the Board.
         (b)   The duties of the President shall include the following:
            1.   To preside at all meetings of the Board. If the President is
absent or temporarily absent from the meeting, the President Pro tem shall
serve as the President and preside temporarily;
            2.   To open the meeting at the time at which the Board is to meet
by taking the podium and calling the members to order. The President may call
on any member, or the Village Clerk, to open the meeting;
            3.   To recognize when those members entitled to the floor may
speak;
            4.   To state question and put to vote all questions which are
regularly moved or which necessarily arise in the course of the proceedings;
            5.   To protect the Board from frivolous or dilatory action;
            6.   To restrain the members when engaged in debate;
            7.   To preserve order and decorum;
            8.   To decide all points of order subject to appeal, and to speak
thereon in preference to other members;
            9.   To inform the Board when necessary, or when any question is
raised, on any point of order or practice pertinent to the pending business;
            10.   To sign, veto or resubmit to the Board for further
consideration all acts, proceedings or orders of the Board. All writs, warrants
and subpoenas issued by order of the Board shall be signed by the President and
attested by the Village Clerk;
            11.   To sign or veto all motions, resolutions or ordinances passed
by the Board;
            12.   To sign all official documents relating to the business of
the village, including contracts, deeds and applications;
            13.   To have general supervision including the duty to protect the
security and safety, of the Board chamber, and adjoining and connecting
hallways and passages, including the power to clear them when necessary;
            14.   To have general supervision of all employees of the Board;
            15.   To enforce all constitutional provisions, statutes,
resolutions, ordinances and rules and regulations applicable to the Board;
            16.   To guide and direct the proceedings of the Board as provided
in these Board rules;
            17.   To direct the Village Clerk to correct non-substantive errors
in the minutes, resolutions or ordinances;
            18.   To decide, in accordance with these Board rules, all
questions relating to the priority of business;
            19.   To administer oaths;
            20.   To submit the names of appointees for all boards and
commissions;
            21.   To appoint temporary personnel to a vacant position whenever
there are justifiable reasons certified by a department head to the President;
            22.   These rules may be suspended by a majority vote of the
corporate authorities; and
            23.   To exercise emergency powers to appoint a qualified person to
a position for a period of 180 business days whenever the President deems that
a serious emergency exists in which substantial impairment, harm or loss of
village property, or a program of the village will result. Such person shall be
employed only during such emergency, but not to exceed 108 business days.
      (3)   Powers and duties of Vice-President and Interim President.
         (a)   The Vice-President of the Board of Trustees of the village shall
be elected bi-annually by the Board of Trustees from among its members. The
Vice-President shall serve until his or her successor is elected.
         (b)   If a vacancy, as defined in the Illinois Compiled Statutes, as
amended, occurs in the office of President, the Vice-President of the Board of
Trustees shall immediately become the Interim President and take the customary
oath of office prescribed by statute.
         (c)   The Interim President, having been duly sworn, shall immediately
assume and perform the duties and possess all the rights and powers of the
President until the Board of Trustees of the village shall meet and elect one
of their members Acting President.
         (d)   When a Trustee Vice-President assumes the role of Interim
President, the Trustee Vice-President designated as Interim President shall
continue to vote in his or her capacity as Trustee Vice-President. The Interim
President remains Trustee Vice-President and no Trustee vacancy is created by
the Trustee Vice-President assuming the position of Interim President.
         (e)   In the temporary absence of the President and the President Pro
Tempore, the Board of Trustees shall elect from among its members the Presiding
Officer of the Board of Trustees. The Presiding Officer of the Board of
Trustees shall vote on all questions on which the vote is taken by ayes and
nays, his or her name being called last.
      (4)   Powers and duties of the Village Clerk. The duties of the Village
Clerk shall include the following:
         (a)   To have custody of all papers and records of the Board, which
shall not be taken out of the Village Clerk’s custody, except in the regular
course of business of the Board;
         (b)   To keep the journal of the proceedings of the Board and, under
the direction of the President, correct errors in the journal at the next
regular Board meeting;
         (c)   To keep the minutes of the meetings of the Board and make them
available to the public under reasonable conditions;
         (d)   To keep the necessary records for the Board and to prepare the
Board calendar for each meeting;
         (e)   To certify passage or adoption of any motions, proclamations,
resolutions or ordinances by the Board, and to note thereon the date of the
Board action. Any corrections suggested regarding the certification of the
passage of a legislative matter to the President by the Village Clerk and
thereafter approved by the Board, shall be entered upon the journal;
         (f)   To attest to the President’s signature and official acts of the
Board;
         (g)   To timely file documents and records with the appropriate
government entity as required by federal, sate or local laws;
         (h)   To attend, or designate an appropriate person to attend, every
meeting of the Board; record the roll; and read such papers as directed by the
President;
         (i)   To establish the format for all documented forms and committee
records prepared by the Village Clerk;
         (j)   To administer oaths;
         (k)   To publish the Treasurer’s annual report in a newspaper
published in the village. The Village Clerk shall attach to the copy of the
Treasurer’s annual report filed with the appropriate government entity to the
effect that the copy is correct and the report was published; and
         (l)   To perform those duties as may be delegated to the Village Clerk
by the state, the county or the Board and as may be assigned by the President.
      (5)   Committees.
         (a)   From time to time, the Board of Trustees shall organize itself
into the standing committees identified below. All standing committees shall
consist of three members and shall be appointed by the Village Board. The
person named first on the committee shall be the chair thereof. Standing
committees are as follows:
            1.   Committee on Police and Fire;
            2.   Committee on Housing;
            3.   Committee on Public Works;
            4.   Committee on the Melanie Fitness Center;
            5.   Committee on Personnel;
            6.   Committee on Youth;
            7.   Committee on Public Safety; and
            8.   Committee on Finance.
         (b)   The standing committees shall be appointed annually. The
President shall be ex officio a member of all committees.
      (6)   Powers and duties of the Sergeant-at-Arms. The Chief of Police
shall be the Sergeant-at- Arms and shall perform those duties assigned to him
or her by law or as ordered by the President. Such duties shall include the
following:
         (a)   To attend the Board during its meetings and execute the commands
of the Board together with all such process issued by authority thereof; as
shall be directed to him or her by the President;
         (b)   To maintain order among spectators admitted into the Board
chambers, galleries and adjoining or connecting hallways and passages;
         (c)   To take proper measures to prevent interruption of the Board’s
meetings or proceedings; and
         (d)   To perform those duties as assigned by the President.
      (7)   Power and duties of Trustees.
         (a)   To elect from among the corporate authority, a Mayor pro tem;
         (b)   To elect from among the corporate authority, all members of
standing committees and to designate all chairpersons and vice-chairpersons of
committees; and
         (c)   To function as a legislative body pursuant to federal, state and
local laws.
      (8)   Power and duties of Mayor Pro tem. The Mayor or President Pro Tern,
during the Mayor’s or President’s absence or disability, shall perform the
duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor or President but
shall only vote in his or her position as trustee.
   (C)   Conduct of business.
      (1)   Schedule. The Board shall hold its regular Board meetings on the
first and third Mondays of the month at 7:30 p.m. at Village Hall, with such
schedule subject to revision at the discretion of the President.
      (2)   Daily order. The order of business of the regular meeting of Board
of Trustees shall be as follows:
         (a)   Call to order;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   Pledge of allegiance;
         (d)   General announcements;
         (e)   Citizen’s address - limited to discussion of agenda items;
         (f)   Village Clerk report:
            1.   Minutes; and
            2.   Communications.
         (g)   Engineer’s report;
         (h)   Committee reports;
         (i)   Corporate bills;
         (j)   Old business;
         (k)   New business;
         (l)   Mayor’s report;
         (m)   Citizens address - general; and
         (n)   Adjournment.
      (3)   Quorum.
         (a)   A majority of the corporate authority shall constitute a quorum
to do business. Acts done by the Board of Trustees without a quorum shall be
void. A quorum of the corporate authority must be present to begin a meeting
but also at the time of a roll call vote on any matter. Where less than a
quorum remains at a meeting, business must be suspended.
         (b)   The President shall be counted in determining whether a quorum
is present. At least four Trustees, or the President and three Trustees must be
present to constitute a quorum. Where a member of the corporate authorities
submits his or her resignation effective at the close of the meeting, he or she
shall participate in the meeting and be counted in establishing a quorum.
         (c)   In determining whether there is a quorum, members present at the
meeting are counted as present whether or not they occupy their respective
seats.
         (d)   A quorum of a committee shall be the majority of the Trustees
appointed to the committee.
         (e)   The President shall be, ex officio, a member of all committees,
but shall not be counted in determining the quorum at any committee meeting and
shall not be permitted to vote.
      (4)   Vacancies; elective offices.
         (a)   The Board of Trustees shall elect one of its members as acting
President and Mayor in the event there is a vacancy in the office of the
President. The Acting President or Mayor shall perform the duties and possess
all the rights and powers of the President or Mayor. The Acting President or
Mayor shall serve out the term of the Mayor who has vacated the office.
         (b)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Trustee, and there remains
an unexpired portion of the term, the vacancy shall be filled by a qualified
person for the unexpired balance of the term upon recommendation by the
President, with the consent of the Board. The appointment shall be made within
60 days of the vacancy.
         (c)   If a vacancy occurs in any elective office other than that of
the President, and Trustees, and there remains an unexpired portion of the
term, the vacancy shall be filled by a qualified person for the unexpired
balance of the term upon recommendation by the President and consent of the
Board.
      (5)   Public meetings.
         (a)   The Board of Trustees shall comply with the state’s Open
Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended. A meeting
is any gathering of a majority of a quorum of the members of the Board of
Trustees or a Board committee, held for the purpose of discussing public
business.
         (b)   The Village Clerk must give not less than 48 hours’ pubic notice
for all meetings. The Village Clerk shall give public notice of the schedule of
regular meetings at the beginning of each calendar or fiscal year, listing the
times and places of such meetings. The annual notice must also cover the
meetings of committees of the Board and formally created advisory groups. The
Village Clerk shall also send the annual notice and changes in the schedule of
regular meetings must also be sent to any news media that has filed an annual
request for such notice.
         (c)   A special meeting may be called by the President or three
Trustees. Public notice, except for an emergency meeting, along with the
agenda, must be given at least 48 hours before the meeting by posting the
notice at Village Hall and the place where the meeting will be held and
furnishing notice and agenda to the registered news media. The President,
Village Clerk and the Trustees shall each be served notice of the special
meeting by U.S. certified mail return receipt requested or by leaving a copy at
the President, Village Clerk or members respective residence delivered via
messenger, messenger service or overnight carrier, with proof of service.
         (d)   An emergency meeting may be called by the President when the
President deems it necessary. Notice of the emergency meeting must be given as
soon as practicable, but in any event prior to the holding of such meeting, to
any news medium which has filed an annual request for notice. Notice must also
be posted in Village Hall. Trustees may be notified of an emergency meeting via
telephone with certification of said telephone notice or facsimile transmission
with proof of transmission.
      (6)   Closing meetings to the public.
         (a)   Board meetings and committee meetings of the Board of Trustees
may be closed to the public, only if:
            1.   The subject to be considered at that meeting is one of the
enumerated exceptions listed in of the Open Meetings Act;
            2.   A majority of a quorum at a meeting open to the public has
voted to have such a closed meeting;
            3.   Proper notice was given for the meeting at which the vote was
taken;
            4.   The vote of each member on the question of holding the meeting
closed is recorded and entered into the minutes of the open meeting; and
            5.   The motion to hold the closed session and the minutes of the
meeting contain a citation to the specific exception which the authorizes tie
closing of the meeting to the public.
         (b)   All final action must take place in open session. The President
may, prior to the Board taking final action, provide or recognize a Trustee to
provide an explanation of the matter to be considered.
         (c)   A closed session authorized by a proper vote can take place as
part of a properly noticed meeting open to the public without need for any
further notice or an indication in the agenda that
closed session will be held. Where a closed session is to be held other than as
part of an open meeting, separate notice regarding that meeting must be given
to the public and the registered news media.
         (d)   The Board may, by a single vote, authorize a series of meetings,
a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public;
provided that, each meeting in the series involves the same particular matter
or matters and is scheduled to be held within three months of the vote.
      (7)   Voting.
         (a)   Voting upon all ordinances and upon any resolutions or motions
creating liabilities or expenditures, shall be by “yeas” and “nays” shall be
taken by roll call of each member, and shall be recorded in minutes of the
meeting. The official copy of the ordinance or resolution itself shall list the
names of each person voting and how he or she voted. The Board shall not
conduct any votes by secret sealed ballot even if the process is conducted at a
public meeting.
         (b)   Voting upon matters not involving the adoption of a ordinance
for whatever purpose or a resolution creating a liability against the village
or requirement the expenditure or appropriation of money or any other matter
not required by statute to receive any particular vote may be adopted by a
simple majority of the quorum.
         (c)   Unless otherwise specified herein, all ordinances, for whatever
purpose, and only those resolutions or motions which create any liability
against the village, or are for the expenditure or appropriation of money,
shall require the concurrence of a majority of the corporate authorities then
holding office, including the President.
         (d)   All ordinances, resolutions or motions to convey real estate
when no longer needed or in the best interest of the village to keep, to lease
to another for terms up to 99 years when in the best interest of the village,
acceptance of bids and contracts for the sale of real estate, and the purchase
o or lease from another by installment contract not exceeding a 20-year term
with accompanying special taking authority, shall require the affirmative vote
of a majority of the corporate authorities then holding office, including the
President.
         (e)   All ordinances, resolutions or motions for the appropriation of
money, for supplemental appropriation of money, the transfer of money within a
fund, or additional appropriations of money, shall require the affirmative vote
of a majority of the corporate authorities then holding office, including the
President.
         (f)   All ordinances, resolution or motions for the sale of personal
property by ordinance with or without bids; by converting into some other form
of personal property useful to the village by using the material in the
property; or by trading in on the purchase of similar article, with or without
bid, shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the corporate
authorities then holding office, including the President.
         (g)   The President may vote:
            1.   Where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie;
            2.   Where one-half of the Trustees elected have voted in favor of
an ordinance, resolution or motion, even though there is no tie;
            3.   Where a vote of the corporate authorities is required; or
            4.   Where a vote greater than majority of the corporate
authorities is required by state statute or local ordinance to adopt an
ordinance, resolution or motion.
         (h)   The Mayor shall have authority to veto all ordinances,
resolution or motions without regard to their subject, and the power to veto a
line item on appropriation ordinances. If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance or a
resolution or a motion susceptible to veto, the Board, upon the receipt of the
Mayor’s written objections, shall reconsider the same at “the next regular
meeting”. The Board may, at its next regularly scheduled meeting after a
measure adopted by the Board has been returned to it with a veto, move to
reconsider the vote by which the measure was originally adopted. If a majority
of the quorum adopted the motion to reconsider, the Board may then move to
adopt the measure notwithstanding the veto or that it be passed over the veto.
Two-thirds of the members of the Board then holding office must vote in favor
of that motion in order for the measure to be adopted. If the measure does not
receive two-thirds of the vote of the members of the Board then holding office,
the measure fails.
         (i)   The Board may reconsider its vote and actions upon questions,
motions, resolutions or ordinances and reverse or rescind its previous actions
upon a motion to reconsider brought by any Trustee, at any subsequent or
regular Board meeting; except that, where the rights of other parties have
intervened. The Board may reconsider its vote where a third party has
intervened and the Board seeks to reconsider its previous action based upon an
erroneous legal view.
         (j)   Amendments to resolution and or ordinances must be in writing
and submitted to the President.
         (k)   Telephone voting.
      (8)   Public participation. At the conclusion of scheduled business of
all regularly scheduled Board meetings, the public will be allowed 30 minutes
for public views and participation.
(1988 Code, § 1-6-7) (Ord. 95-278, passed 6-6-1995; Ord. 98-365, passed 4-20-
1998; Ord. 98-387, passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 99-103, passed 1-4-1999; Ord. 99-123,
passed 9-20-1999; Ord. 99-124, passed 9-20-1999; Res. 13-R-0013, passed 6-3-
2013; Ord. 16-019, passed 8-1-2016; Ord. 19-011, passed 5-6-2019; Ord. 20-006,
passed 3-2-2020; Ord. 21-018, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 30.027 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Approval and veto. All resolutions and motions which create any
liability against the village, or which provide for the expenditure or
appropriation of its money, or which authorize the sale of any village
property, and all ordinances shall be decided by a roll call vote, and all
ordinances passed by the Village Board shall be deposited with the Village
Clerk. If the President approves of them, he or she shall sign them; those of
which he or she disapproves, he or she shall return to the Board of Trustees
with his or her written objections at the next regular meeting of the Board of
Trustees occurring not less than five days after their passage. The President
may disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in any ordinance,
resolution or motion making an appropriation and, if so, the remainder shall be
effective. However, the President may disapprove entirely of an ordinance,
resolution or motion making an appropriation. If the President fails to return
any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with his or her written
objection within the designated time, it shall become effective despite the
absence of his or her signature.
   (B)   Passing over veto. Every resolution, motion or ordinance which is
returned to the Trustees by the President with his or her written objections
shall be reconsidered by the Trustees. If, after such reconsideration, two-
thirds of all the Trustees then holding office shall agree to pass an
ordinance, resolution or motion, notwithstanding the President’s refusal to
approve it, then it shall be effective. The vote on the question of passage
over the President’s veto shall be by yeas and nays and shall be recorded in
the journal.
(1988 Code, § 1-6-8)
§ 30.028 RESTRICTION ON HOLDING OTHER OFFICE.
   No Trustee may accept or be appointed to or hold any lucrative office by
appointment of the President during the term of office for which said Trustee
was elected. Any such appointment is void.
(1988 Code, § 1-6-9)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Appointment to and removals from office
   
31.002   Residency requirements
   
31.003   Salary schedules, policies; classification
   
31.004   Vacations
   
31.005   Holiday pay
   
31.006   Civil service
   
31.007   Elections
   
31.008   Check signing requirements
Village Clerk
   
31.020   Election; term of office; qualifications
   
31.021   Oath
   
31.022   Bond and salary
   
31.023   Powers and duties
   
31.024   Restriction on holding other elective office
   
31.025   Village Collector
   
31.026   Deputy Clerk
   
31.027   Office hours
Village Treasurer
   
31.040   Office created; appointment
   
31.041   Oath
   
31.042   Bond and compensation
   
31.043   Powers and duties
   
31.044   Firefighters’ and Police Pension Funds
   
31.045   Deputy Village Treasurer
   
31.046   Assistant Village Treasurer
Village Attorneys
   
31.060   Village Attorney
   
31.061   Special Prosecuting Attorney
   
31.062   Special Attorneys
Village Engineer
   
31.075   Office created; appointment
   
31.076   Qualifications
   
31.077   Duties
Village Plumber
   
31.090   Office created; appointment
   
31.091   Qualifications
   
31.092   Duties
   
31.093   Compensation
Director of Inspectional Services
   
31.105   Office created; appointment
   
31.106   Powers and duties
   
31.107   Minimum job requirements
Inspector General
   
31.120   Office established
   
31.121   Retention
   
31.122   Subpoena issuance and contents; objections
   
31.123   Conduct of village officers, employees and other entities
   
31.124   Investigation reports
   
31.125   Confidentiality of ex-informants; exceptions
   
31.126   Investigations not concluded within six months
   
31.127   Cooperation with investigations
   
31.128   Files and reports confidential; public statements authorized when
   
31.129   Conditions for removal from office
Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services
   
31.140   Office created; appointment
   
31.141   Oath
   
31.142   Bond and compensation
   
31.143   Powers and duties
   
31.144   Books and records; examination
   
31.145   Payments for debts owed to the village
Village Marshal
   
31.160   Office created; appointments
   
31.161   Oaths
   
31.162   Term of office
   
31.163   Qualifications
   
31.164   Criminal record
   
31.165   Powers and duties
   
31.166   Training required
   
31.167   Identification
   
31.168   Firearms
   
31.169   Compensation
Village Administrator
   
31.180   Established
   
31.181   Assisting Mayor
   
31.182   Appointment and removal
   
31.183   Compensation
Legislative Counsel
   
31.195   Office created
   
31.196   Powers and duties
   
31.197   Compensation; rates
   
31.198   Assisting the Local Election Official
Internal Auditor
   
31.210   Establishment of position
 
   
31.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 APPOINTMENT TO AND REMOVALS FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Appointments. The President, by and with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees, shall appoint all officers of the Village whose appointments
are not otherwise provided for by law, and whenever a vacancy shall occur in
any office which by statute or ordinance the President is authorized to fill,
he or she shall, at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees, communicate to
the Board of Trustees the name of his or her nominee to such office, who shall
be appointed upon a majority vote of the Board of Trustees. If the Mayor’s
nominee fails to obtain the majority vote of the Board of Trustees, the Mayor
may appoint a different nominee as a temporary or interim officer at that
regular meeting after the vote by the Board is taken, the temporary or interim
officer shall occupy the office until the next regular meeting of the Board of
Trustees, but in no event shall the temporary or interim appointee serve as a
temporary or interim appointee for a period in excess of 14 days. At the end of
this interim or temporary appointee’s term, at a regular meeting, the Mayor
shall submit a nominee for the appointed office to the Board of Trustees for
its consent. The Mayor may not present a nominee for the same appointed office
more than twice during his or her term of office.
   (B)   Removals. Except where otherwise provided by statute, the President
may remove any officer appointed by him or her on any formal charge whenever he
or she is of the opinion that the interests of the village demand removal. He
or she shall report the reasons for the removal to the Board of Trustees at a
meeting held not less than five, nor more than ten, days after the removal. If
the President fails or refuses to report to the Board of Trustees the reasons
for the removal or if the Board of Trustees, by a two-thirds vote of all its
members authorized by law to be elected, disapproves of the removal, the
officer thereupon shall be restored to the office from which he or she was
removed. The vote shall be by yeas and nays and shall be entered in the
journal. In the event of restoration, the officer shall give a new bond and
take a new oath of office. No officer shall be removed a second time for the
same offense.
(1988 Code, § 1-8-1)
   (C)   Employee hiring. The hiring of all employees, other than appointed
officers, and the amount of their initial salary shall be approved by the Board
of Trustees prior to an offer of employment is made. The Board of Trustees
shall be provided with the resumes and any additional information compiled by
the village for all applicants prior to their approval.
   (D)   Appeal of employee termination. Any employee, other than appointed
officers and employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement, may appeal
their termination of employment to the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
shall approve or disapprove the termination after allowing the employee and
mayor to submit written evidence no later than the second regular Village Board
meeting after termination. If the Board of Trustees disapproves the
termination, the employee shall be restored to the position from which he or
she was removed.
(Ord. 18-002, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 24-014, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All village officers or employees, except for paid on call fire and
police personnel, and Village Commissioners, unless otherwise exempt by state
statute or village ordinance, shall reside within the village or establish
their residency within the corporate limits of the village within one year from
their date of employment or date of promotion. Failure to timely establish such
residence shall result in the termination of employment.
   (B)   All village officers and employees hired prior to 12-1-1997, unless
otherwise exempted herein or by state statute or village ordinance, shall
reside within the corporate limits of the village or not more than 22 miles
from the nearest corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   All village officers and employees hired prior to 12-1-1997, who
reside within the corporate limits of the village or reside not more than 22
miles from the nearest corporate limits, are hereby “grandfathered in” at their
said current address and current position for the purposes of compliance with
this section.
(1988 Code, § 1-8-2) (Ord. 86-101, passed 1-6-1986; Ord. 93-227, passed 9-21-
1993; Ord. 97-350, passed 12-1-1997; Ord. 98-391, passed 12-7-1998)
§ 31.003 SALARY SCHEDULES, POLICIES; CLASSIFICATION.
   The salaries and classifications for village employees and officials are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(1988 Code, § 1-8-3-1) (Ord. 94-248, passed 4-19-1994; Ord. 94-254, passed 5-
17-1994; Ord. 97-337, passed 7-21-1997; Ord. 97-338, passed 7-21-1997; Ord. 98-
362, passed 4-6-1998; Ord. 99-120, passed 9-7-1999; Ord. 02-181, passed 4-15-
2002; Ord. 02-182, passed 4-15-2002; Ord. 09-477, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 09-478,
passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 10-497, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 31.004 VACATIONS.
   (A)   Vacations for other than fire and police personnel. Annual vacation
periods with full pay shall be allowed each full-time employee and full-time
appointed officer of the village, including those paid on an hourly pay basis,
according to the following schedule:
      (1)   Two weeks of vacation each year for those who have served the
village for a period of one year and less than seven years. Such allowance
shall not vest until the full year of service has been completed. After
completion of the first year, such allowance shall vest on the first of each
calendar year following;
      (2)   Three weeks of vacation each year for those who have served the
village for a period of seven years and less than 20 years. Such allowance
shall not vest until seven full years of service have been completed and shall
vest each year thereafter on the first of the calendar year following;
      (3)   Four weeks of vacation each year for those who have served the
village for a period of 20 years. Such allowance shall not vest until 20 full
years of service have been completed and shall vest each year thereafter on the
first of the calendar year following;
      (4)   Only one vacation allowance shall be given in any one calendar
year; and
      (5)   Each such employee and officer shall be allowed an additional day
of vacation in the event, during the vacation period taken, one of the
following holidays occurs: Juneteenth; Memorial Day; New Year’s; Christmas;
Thanksgiving; Labor Day; Independence Day; Lincoln’s Birthday; or Veteran’s
Day.
   (B)   Vacations for Fire Department and Police Department personnel. Annual
vacation periods with full pay shall be allowed each full-time member of the
Fire Department and of the Police Department according to the following
schedule:
      (1)   Two weeks of vacation each year for those who have served the
village for a period of one year and less than seven years. Such allowance
shall not vest until the full year of service has been completed. After
completion of the first year, such allowance shall vest on the first of each
calendar year following;
      (2)   Three weeks of vacation each year for those who have served the
village for a period of seven years and less than 20 years. Such allowance
shall not vest until seven full years of service have been completed and shall
vest each year thereafter on the first of the calendar year following;
      (3)   Four weeks of vacation each year for those who have served the
village for a period of 20 years. Such allowance shall not vest until 20 full
years of service have been completed and shall vest each year thereafter on the
first of the calendar year following;
      (4)   Only one vacation allowance shall be given in any one calendar
year; and
      (5)   In addition to the allowance set forth in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2)
and (B)(3) above, there shall be allowed ten days of furlough for members of
the Police Department and eight days of furlough for members of the Fire
Department.
   (C)   Designation of vacation periods. The head of each department may
designate by rule the time when each employee under his or her supervision may
take a vacation, and shall submit his or her rulings to the President for
purposes of information and approval. The times which heads of departments or
appointed officials choose to take their vacations shall be approved by the
President. When practicable, due consideration shall be given to employees
having the longest period of continued service.
   (D)   Vacations not cumulative. The above designated vacation periods shall
not be considered cumulative, and no vacation with pay shall be allowed in any
calendar year in excess of the periods above established. It is mandatory that
a vacation be taken during the calendar year and no employee or officer shall
be permitted to work and collect vacation pay.
   (E)   Number on vacation limited. The respective heads of the departments of
the village are authorized to limit the number of employees on vacation at any
time.
   (F)   Divided vacations. A vacation may be divided into more than one period
within any calendar year at the reasonable discretion of the department head.
(1988 Code, § 1-8-3-2) (Ord. passed 9-9-1975)
§ 31.005 HOLIDAY PAY.
   In the event an individual other than a firefighter or police officer is
scheduled to work on one of the holidays listed in §
31.004(A)(5) of this chapter, such individual shall be paid an additional
amount equal to the individual hourly rate of pay for the number of hours
worked on said holiday.
(1988 Code, § 1-8-3-3)
§ 31.006 CIVIL SERVICE.
   (A)   General. The offices and places classified by the Civil Service
Commission shall constitute the classified civil service of the village. No
appointment to any of such offices or places shall be made except under and
according to the rules hereinafter mentioned.
   (B)   Rules. The Commission shall make rules, and make changes in such rules
as will carry out the purpose, intent and provisions of this section and for
procedures relative to examinations, appointments, promotions and removals in
offices and places. All such rules and changes shall be printed immediately and
be available for distribution. Notice must be published in the local newspaper
as follows:
      (1)   Of the place where the rules may be obtained; and
      (2)   Of the date not less than ten days subsequent to the date of
publication when the rules or changes in the rules shall become effective.
   (C)   Civil service examinations.
      (1)   Applicants to be examined. All applicants for offices or places in
the classified service shall be subject to examination. Such examinations shall
be public, competitive and open to all citizens of the United States subject,
however, to specified limitations as to residence, age, health, habits and
moral character as may be determined by the Commission in the adoption and
publication of its rules. However, the age limitations in such rules shall not
apply to persons entitled to military preference in accordance with the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/10-1-16 as now or hereafter amended. The examinations
shall be practical in their character and shall relate to those matters which
will fairly test the relative capacity of the applicants to discharge the
duties of the positions to which they seek to be appointed, and shall include
test of physical qualifications and health, and when appropriate, of manual
skill. No part of said examination shall relate to political or religious
opinions or affiliations.
      (2)   Notice of examinations. Notice of the time, place, general scope
and fee of every examination shall be given by the Commission by publication
for two weeks in a local newspaper. Such notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the Village Hall for two weeks before such examination.
      (3)   Register of eligibles. A register of persons for each grade or
class of positions in the classified service of the village shall be prepared
by the Commission. Such persons shall take rank upon the register as candidates
in the order of their relative excellence as determined by examination, without
reference to priority of time of examination.
   (D)   Appointments. The head of the department or office in which a position
classified under this section is to be filled shall notify the Commission of
that fact, and the Commission shall certify to the appointing officer the name
and address of the candidate standing highest upon the register for the class
or grade to which the position belongs. However, in cases of laborers where a
choice by competition is impracticable, the Commission may provide by its rules
that the selections shall be made by law from among those candidates proved fit
by examination, but laborers who have previously been in the service and were
removed because their services were no longer required shall be preferred and
be reinstated before other laborers are given positions, preference being given
to those who have had the longest term of service, and laborers in the employ
of the municipality who have been employed under temporary authority for three
years or more or during parts of three or more calendar years shall be
preferred also and shall be placed upon the register for such positions without
examination and shall be certified before other laborers are given positions,
preference being given to those laborers under temporary authority who have had
the longest term of service in such positions. In making such certificate, sex
shall be disregarded, except when some statute, the rules of the Commission or
the appointing power specifies sex. The appointing officer shall notify the
Commission of each position to be filled separately and shall fill such place
by the appointment of the person certified to him or her by the Commission
therefor. Original appointment shall be on probation for a period of not to
exceed six months to be fixed by the rules. The Commission may strike off names
of candidates from the register after they have remained thereon more than two
years. At or before the expiration of the period of probation, the head of the
department or office in which a candidate is employed may, by and with the
consent of the Commission, discharge him or her upon assigning in writing his
or her reason therefor to the Commission. If he or she is not then discharged,
his or her appointment shall be deemed complete. To prevent the stoppage of
public business or to meet extraordinary exigencies, the head of any department
or office may, with the approval of the Commission, make temporary appointment
to remain in force not exceeding 120 days, and only until regular appointment
under the provisions of this section can be made.
   (E)   Removals or suspensions.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided in this division (E), no officer or
employee in the classified civil service of the village who is appointed under
the rules and after examination shall be removed or discharged or suspended for
a period of more than 30 days, except for cause upon written charges and after
an opportunity to be heard in his or her own defense. Such charges shall be
investigated by or before the Civil Service Commission or by or before some
officer or board appointed by the Commission to conduct such investigation. The
finding and decision of such Commission or investigating officer or board, when
approved by the Commission, shall be certified to the appointing officer and
shall forthwith be enforced by such officer. Nothing in this section shall
limit the power of any officer to suspend a subordinate for a reasonable
period, not exceeding 30 days; except that, any employee or officer suspended
for more than five days or suspended within six months after a previous
suspension shall be entitled, upon request, to a hearing before the Civil
Service Commission concerning the propriety of such suspension. In the course
of an investigation of charges, each member of the Commission and of any board
so appointed by it and any officer so appointed may administer oaths and may
secure by its subpoena both the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of books and papers relevant to such investigation.
      (2)   Any person who shall be served with a subpoena to appear and
testify or to produce books and papers, issued by the Commission or by any
Commissioner or by any board or person acting under the orders of the
Commission in the course of an investigation conducted by the Commission, and
who shall refuse or neglect to appear or to testify or to produce books and
papers relevant to the investigation as commanded in such subpoena, is guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall, on conviction, be punished by a fine as provided
for in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. The fees of witnesses for attendance and
travel shall be the same as the fees of witnesses before the circuit courts of
the state and shall be paid from the appropriation for the expenses of the
Commission. Any circuit court of the state, upon application of any such
Commissioner or officer or board, may, in its discretion, compel the attendance
of witnesses, the production of books and papers and giving of testimony before
the Commission, or before any such Commissioner, investigating board or
officer, by attachment for contempt or otherwise in the same manner as the
production of evidence may be compelled before such court. Every person who,
having taken an oath or made affirmation before a Commissioner or officer
appointed by the Commission authorized to administer oaths, shall swear or
affirm willfully, corruptly and falsely shall be guilty of perjury and upon
conviction shall be punished accordingly.
   (F)   Exemptions from provisions.
      (1)   Effective 4-15-1986, all employees included in the certified
bargaining unit(s) hereinafter described shall be removed from all provisions
of this section and similar provisions of the Illinois Revised Statutes
pertaining to civil service commissions in cities and villages. Hereafter, all
matters pertaining to promotions, suspensions, discharges and all rules of
employee conduct shall be solely governed by agreement between the village and
the bargaining unit. Except, however, that, nothing herein shall prohibit the
Village President and Board of Trustees from designating the Civil Service
Commission as the authority responsible for testing and processing applicants
for entry level positions within said bargaining unit so long as all other
provisions of the applicable agreement relating to the filling of vacancies are
complied with.
      (2)   The following classifications of affected employees are subject to
the exemption described in this division (F): all employees in the Public Works
Department; classifications of driver, laborer, equipment operator, mechanic
and custodian, but excluding all clerical employees, foreperson, confidential
and managerial employees and supervisors as defined by the Act; and all other
employees of the village.
(1988 Code, § 1-8-4) (Ord. 86-115, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 31.007 ELECTIONS.
   Elections for village officers shall be held as provided by statute and at
the time prescribed by statute, pursuant to appropriate provisions of Ill. Rev.
Stat. Ch. 24 and 46, as may be from time to time amended.
(1988 Code, § 1-11-1)
§ 31.008 CHECK SIGNING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village hereby establishes a standard operating policy for the
purposes of signing checks.
      It is the intention of the village to implement these practices in order
to maintain the proper Internal controls for financial matters of the village.
   (B)   Check-signing authority shall reside with the following:
      (1)   Mayor;
      (2)   Mayor Pro tem or most senior Trustee; and
      (3)   Village Clerk.
   (C)   Signing of checks shall be authorized as follows.
      (1)   All village-issued checks will require a minimum of two of the
three signatures identified in division (B) above.
      (2)   Individuals shall not be a signatory for a check to which he or she
is the payee.
      (3)   Each authorized signer may choose to sign village checks manually
or with a signature stamp.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-12-2024)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.020 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Village Clerk shall be elected to office according to the method
provided by statute. His or her term shall be for a period of four years and
until his or her successor is elected and qualified. He or she shall be a
citizen of the United States, a qualified elector and shall have resided within
the corporate limits of the village at least one year next preceding the
election at which he is a candidate. No person who is a defaulter to the
village is eligible for the office of Village Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.021 OATH.
   The Village Clerk shall take the customary oath of office prescribed by
statute before entering upon the duties of office.
(1988 Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 31.022 BOND AND SALARY.
   (A)   Bond. The Village Clerk shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the
village a bond in the penal sum of $50,000 with two good and sufficient
sureties or with an insurance company authorized by the state’s Director of
Insurance to engage in surety business in the state. Said bond shall be
conditioned as provided by law and must be approved by the President and Board
of Trustees. Such bond must be delivered within ten days of taking the office
of Village Clerk and must be filed with the Village Treasurer.
   (B)   Salary. The compensation and expenses of the Village Clerk as may be
provided for in the annual Appropriation (Budget) Ordinance and Resolution
Setting Salaries, Compensation, Expense Accounts and other Remuneration for
Employees of the Village of Dolton, as from time to time amended. The corporate
authority may fix the salary of all officers who hold elective office for a
definite term in an ordinance other than the appropriation or budget ordinance.
Said compensation, as fixed by ordinance, shall neither be increased nor
diminished during that term and shall be fixed at least 180 days before a
general municipal election in which voting is held for that office.
(1988 Code, § 1-7-3) (Ord. passed 7-8-1980; Ord. 00-153, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 31.023 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Administer oaths. The Village Clerk shall have power to administer
oaths and affirmations on all lawful occasions.
   (B)   Additional duties. The Village Clerk shall, in addition to the above,
perform the following duties.
      (1)   Office. He or she shall keep his or her office for the transaction
of village business at the Village Hall.
      (2)   Issue notices. He or she shall issue notices to the President and
members of the Village Board and, when directed by that body, to the members of
the different committees of that body, and to all persons whose attendance will
be required before that body or any such committee when so directed, and shall
also issue and cause to be served notices of meetings.
      (3)   Attest licenses. He or she shall attest all the licenses granted by
the President or Board of Trustees under the ordinances of the village.
      (4)   Deliver documents and ordinances.
         (a)   He or she shall, without delay, deliver to the officers of the
village and to all committees all bills, resolutions, communications and other
documents referring to such officers or committees.
         (b)   He or she shall, without delay, deliver to the President all
ordinances or resolutions under his or her charge, which may require approval
or other action by the President, with all papers and information on which the
same were founded.
      (5)   Custodian of Corporate Seal. He or she shall keep the Corporate
Seal and affix the same to all papers which require it.
      (6)   Keeper of records. He or she shall keep all records and papers
belonging to the village.
      (7)   Attend meetings. He or she shall attend all the meetings of the
President and Board of Trustees, and keep a full record of its proceedings in
the journal.
      (8)   Record ordinances. All ordinances passed by the President and Board
of Trustees shall be recorded by the Clerk in a book kept and used exclusively
for that purpose before the next regular meeting after they go into effect. He
or she shall cause ordinances imposing a fine or penalty or making an
appropriation to be duly published. The Clerk shall note at the foot of the
record of each ordinance a memorandum of the date of its passage and approval
or otherwise becoming effective and, if published, the date of the publication
of such ordinance. The original shall be filed in the office of said Clerk with
a certificate of publication or posting attached to ordinances requiring
publication.
      (9)   File tax levy ordinance. He or she shall, on or before the second
Tuesday in September in each year, file with the County Clerk a certified copy
of the ordinance in which the total amount of appropriations for all corporate
purposes of the village legally made are levied and assessed for the current
fiscal year.
      (10)   Furnish information to the state’s Health Department. He or she
shall, annually before May 1, furnish the state’s Department of Public Health
with a list of the names of the President, the Clerk, the Health Inspector and
all members of the Board of Health. This list shall indicate which person is
charged with the enforcement of quarantine regulations. He or she shall also
advise of vacancies as soon as they exist.
      (11)   Warrants.
         (a)   He or she shall countersign all warrants drawn upon the
Municipal Treasurer. Such warrant must state the particular fund and
appropriation to which the warrant is chargeable and the person to whom
payable. He or she shall prepare all warrants for the payment of money, sign
and deliver the same when called for after they have been countersigned by the
President, taking a proper receipt therefor.
         (b)   He or she shall sign all warrants of commission to all municipal
officers, elected or appointed, except the Municipal Clerk, Trustees and
President and shall affix the Corporate Seal to said warrant.
      (12)   Certify transcripts as evidence. He or she shall have authority to
certify, for use as evidence in court, copies of all papers duly filed in his
or her office and transcripts from the journal and other records and files of
his or her office.
      (13)   Filing bonds. He or she shall keep on file all bonds required to
be filed by all elected or appointed officers. He or she shall keep in his or
her office in a book used exclusively for that purpose, a correct list of all
the outstanding bonds of the village showing the number and amount of each and
for and to whom the bonds were issued.
      (14)   Nomination and election duties.
         (a)   Nominations for elective office. He or she shall receive and
file all objections to nomination papers.
         (b)   Conduct elections. He or she shall be deputy registrar of voters
and shall conduct all regular and special village elections.
         (c)   Provide election facilities. He or she is hereby directed to
prepare the necessary ballots, ballot boxes, instructions to voters, polling
places and other election supplies and equipment and take all steps provided by
law to properly hold and conduct each municipal election in accordance with
this code and any of the village ordinances and the laws of the state.
         (d)   Publish sample election ballot. Prior to the date of each
election, he or she shall cause a sample of each ballot to be voted upon at
such election to be published in one or more newspapers published in the
village.
         (e)   Notice of election. He or she shall cause notice of each
election to be given not more than 30, nor less than 15, days in advance of the
election by publication in one or more newspapers published in the village. The
notice shall state the time and places of election, the officers to be elected
and the proposition or propositions, if any, to be voted upon at the election.
         (f)   Notify elected officer. Within five days after the result of an
election is declared or an appointment made, he or she shall notify all persons
elected or appointed to office of their election or appointment, and unless
such persons shall respectively qualify in ten days after such notice, the
office shall become and be vacant.
         (g)   Call for special election. In the event there is a vacancy in an
elective office and if for any reason there is not a quorum in office of the
corporate authorities, and if there be a vacancy in the office of President, he
or she may call for a special election to fill the vacancy and, at the time of
calling the special election, he or she shall appoint the time and place, give
notice thereof and appoint the judges of election.
      (15)   Membership on boards and commissions.
         (a)   Electoral Board. He or she shall be a member of the Electoral
Board which passes on objections to nomination papers.
         (b)   Board of Local Improvements. The Village Clerk shall be the
Secretary of the Board of Local Improvements and shall keep the minutes of said
Board of Local Improvements and perform such other duties as may be required of
said office.
         (c)   Zoning Board of Appeals. The Village Clerk shall serve as the
secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals and shall keep the minutes of said
Zoning Board of Appeals and shall perform such other duties as may be required
of said office.
         (d)   Planning Commission. The Village Clerk shall serve as Secretary
of the Planning Commission and shall keep the minutes of said Planning
Commission and shall perform such other duties as may be required of said
office.
         (e)   Firefighters’ Pension Fund Board. He or she shall be a member of
the Board of Trustees of the Firefighters’ Pension Fund of the village.
      (16)   Treasurer’s annual report.
         (a)   He or she shall publish the Treasurer’s annual report at least
once in one or more newspapers published in the village.
         (b)   He or she shall furnish the Treasurer an affidavit with a true
and correct copy of the Treasurer’s annual report filed with him or her and
that the account was published, the date of publication and the name of the
newspaper in which published.
      (17)   Notice of injury. He or she shall receive notices of injury from
persons about to commence an action for injuries to the person against the
village and shall for-ward the same to the insurance carrier insuring the
village for such actions.
(1988 Code, § 1-7-4)
§ 31.024 RESTRICTION ON HOLDING OTHER ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   The Village Clerk shall hold no other elective office in the village
government during his or her term of office.
(1988 Code, § 1-7-5)
§ 31.025 VILLAGE COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Clerk shall not serve as Collector. Effective upon the expiration of
the 2001-2005 term of elected office for the Village Clerk, the Village Clerk
shall cease to serve as the Village Collector. Effective upon the commencement
of the 2005-2009 term of elected office for the Village Clerk, the Village
Collector shall be a position appointed by the Mayor, and said Collector
position shall be and operate separate and apart from the Village Clerk and the
Village Clerk’s Office.
   (B)   Duties. The Village Collector shall have the following additional
administrative duties: such duties as directed and assigned by the Mayor.
   (C)   Salary. The salary of the Village Collector shall be payable in 26
equal installments, and shall be set annually by ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 1-7-6) (Ord. 97-340, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 02-188, passed 7-23-
2002; Ord. 03-212, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 31.026 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the office of Deputy Clerk in
and for the village.
   (B)   Appointment, powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor, under the conditions hereinafter set forth, is hereby
authorized to appoint one Deputy Clerk with the advice and consent of the Mayor
Board of Trustees, who shall have the power and duty to execute all documents
required to be executed by the Village Clerk and affix the seal of the village
thereto whenever required, such Deputy Clerk to act at such times as
hereinafter provided. In signing any documents, said Deputy Clerk shall sign
the name of the Village Clerk followed with the word “By” and the Deputy
Clerk’s own name and the words “Deputy Clerk”.
      (2)   The Deputy Clerk shall have the authority and powers herein
described and such further power and authority as provided for by statute in
such case made and provided, and such further powers and authority as may
hereinafter be granted pursuant to statute or village ordinance.
   (C)   Conditions of authority. The powers and duties herein described shall
be exercised by such Deputy Clerk only under the following conditions:
      (1)   If the Village Clerk is unavailable or, in the absence of the
Village Clerk, from the Village Clerk’s office in the Municipal Building,
Dolton, Illinois.
      (2)   When written direction has been given by the Village Clerk to such
Deputy to exercise such power, or when the Village President and Board of
Trustees have determined by resolution that the Village Clerk is temporarily or
permanently incapacitated to perform such functions.
      (3)   In the event that the Deputy Clerk is appointed by the written
direction of the Village Clerk, such appointment must be confirmed by the
President and Board of Trustees before such appointment will become effective.
      (4)   The appointment of the Deputy Clerk will not become effective until
such Deputy has taken an oath of office and has filed a surety bond, as
provided by state statute, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of the Deputy Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 1-7-7) (Ord. 94-263, passed 9-20-1994; Ord. 03-211, passed 4-21-
2003; Ord. 08-451, passed 10-20-2008)
§ 31.027 OFFICE HOURS.
   (A)   Normal workweek of the Village Clerk’s office.
      (1)   Effective 6-1-1997, the normal workweek of the Village Clerk’s
office shall be Monday through Friday. The Village Clerk’s office shall be open
to the public on Mondays and Thursdays from 9:00 a.m. until 7:30 p.m; and on
Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 9:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.
      (2)   The Village Clerk’s office shall be closed on Saturdays and
Sundays.
   (B)   Normal workday.
      (1)   The normal workday for the employees of the Village Clerk’s office
shall be eight consecutive hours per day, 40 hours a week.
      (2)   The normal workday or weekly work schedules of the employees of the
Village Clerk’s office shall be staggered so as to accommodate the office hours
of the Village Clerk’s office as set forth in division (A) above.
(Ord. 97-325, passed 5-19-1997)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.040 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the office of Village Treasurer who shall be
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 1-8A-1)
§ 31.041 OATH.
   The Treasurer shall take the customary oath of office prescribed by statute
before entering upon the duties of his or her office. His or her subscribed
oath shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 1-8A-2)
§ 31.042 BOND AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Bond. The Treasurer shall give a bond, before entering upon the duties
of his or her office, in the sum required by the Board of Trustees, and such
amount shall not be less than that required by statute. This bond shall be
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties as the Treasurer
and shall be conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss by reason of any
neglect of duty or any wrongful act of the Treasurer. The bond shall also be
conditioned for faithful performance of his or her duty as treasurer of the
Firefighters’ Pension Fund and shall be conditioned for the faithful
performance of his or her duty as Treasurer of the Police Pension Fund. Such
bond shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Salary. The Treasurer shall receive as compensation such sum as shall
be set in the annual appropriation ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 1-8A-3)
§ 31.043 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall have the power and perform the duties
provided by statute and by the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   Among other things, it shall be his or her duty as follows:
      (1)   Receive and pay out moneys. To receive all moneys due or belonging
to the village and pay all orders or warrants, including special assessments
and other bonds and interest coupons, authorized by the Board of Trustees and
duly executed by the proper officers of the village;
      (2)   Books of account; register of warrants. To keep, or cause to be
kept, suitable books of account, showing in a simple and methodical manner all
moneys received by him or her and from whom and on what account or fund they
have been received, and all moneys paid out by him or her, to whom and on what
account or fund paid, and for what purpose. The books shall be balanced by him
or her monthly. He or she shall keep a register of all warrants which shall
describe each warrant showing the date, amount and number, the fund from which
paid, the name of the person to whom paid and when paid;
      (3)   Account of taxes levied. To keep a separate account for taxes which
are levied for a specific purpose;
      (4)   Reports.
         (a)   Monthly reports. To make a monthly report of his or her
transactions as Treasurer to the President and Board of Trustees, which report
shall be under oath filed with said Board together with cancelled vouchers
covering all transactions embraced in said report. The report shall show the
state of the treasury as of the date of the account. He or she shall accompany
the account with a statement of all money received into the treasury and on
what account, together with warrants redeemed and paid by him or her. On the
day the account is rendered, the warrants with all vouchers shall be delivered
to the Village Clerk and filed together with the monthly account in the Clerk’s
office.
         (b)   Annual report.
            1.   Within 30 days after the end of the fiscal year, he or she
must make out an annual report which must show:
               a.   All moneys received by the village indicating the total
amounts in the aggregate received in each account of the village; and
               b.   A statement showing the state of the village treasury at
the close of the fiscal year.
            2.   The annual report must be filed with the Village Clerk. A copy
of such report as filed with the Village Clerk and bearing the affidavit of the
Village Clerk that such copy is a true and correct copy of the one filed with
him or her, that said report was published, the date of publication and the
name of the paper in which published shall be filed with the County Collector
before November 1 as required by statute.
         (c)   Report fees. To make and return to the Village President every
May and every November a semi-annual report, verified by affidavit, of all fees
and other compensation received by him or her.
      (5)   Deposit of village funds; village and personal accounts to be
separate. To deposit the village funds in such depositories as may be selected
from time to time as provided by law; and to keep the deposit of the village
money separate and distinct from his own money and not make private or personal
use of any village money.
(1988 Code, § 1-8A-4)
§ 31.044 FIREFIGHTERS’ AND POLICE PENSION FUNDS.
   (A)   Firefighters’ Pension Fund. The Treasurer shall be ex-officio member
of the Firefighters’ Pension Fund of the village and Treasurer of said Fund.
   (B)   Police Pension Fund. The Treasurer shall have custody of the Police
Pension Fund and shall annually, on the second Tuesday in May, make a sworn
statement to the Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund of the village
and to the Village President and Board of Trustees of all moneys received and
paid out of the said Pension Fund, the amount of such funds then on hand and
the amount owing to the Pension Fund.
(1988 Code, § 1-8A-5)
§ 31.045 DEPUTY VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   Office created; appointment. There is hereby created the office of
Deputy Village Treasurer in and for the village. The Deputy Village Treasurer
shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees.
   (B)   Oath. The Deputy Treasurer shall take the customary oath of office
prescribed by statute before entering upon the duties of office, which oath
shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Bond. The Deputy Treasurer shall give a bond with surety, before
entering upon the duties of office, in the sum required by the Board of
Trustees and such amount shall not be less than required by statute. This bond
shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of duties as Deputy
Treasurer and shall indemnify the village for any loss by reason of any neglect
of duty or any wrongful act of the Deputy Treasurer. The bond shall be also
conditioned for faithful performance of duty as Deputy Treasurer of the
Firefighters’ Pension Fund and the Police Pension Fund. Such bond shall be
filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (D)   Compensation. The Deputy Treasurer shall receive as compensation such
sum as shall be set forth in the annual appropriation ordinance.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Village Treasurer, as
contained in this subchapter, shall be exercised by the Deputy Village
Treasurer only under the following conditions:
      (1)   In the absence of the Village Treasurer from the Treasurer’s office
in the Municipal Building; and
      (2)   When written direction has been given by the Village Treasurer to
such Deputy to exercise such power, or when the Village President and Board of
Trustees have determined by resolution that the Village Treasurer is
temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform such functions.
(1988 Code, § 1-8A-6) (Ord. 85-116B, passed 7-9-1985)
§ 31.046 ASSISTANT VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the office of Assistant
Village Treasurer in and for the village.
   (B)   Appointment of Assistant Treasurer. The Assistant Village Treasurer
shall be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees.
   (C)   Oath. The Assistant Treasurer shall take the customary oath of office
prescribed by statute before entering upon the duties of office. The oath shall
be filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (D)   Bond. The Assistant Treasurer shall give a bond with surety before
entering upon the duties of office in the sum required by the Board of
Trustees, and such amount shall not be less than required by statute. This bond
shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of duties as Assistant
Treasurer, and shall indemnify the village for any loss by reason of any
neglect of duty or any wrongful act of the Assistant Treasurer. The bond shall
be also conditioned for faithful performance of duty as Assistant Treasurer of
the Firefighters’ Pension Fund and the Police Pension Fund. Such bond shall be
filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Village Treasurer as
contained in this subchapter shall be exercised by the Assistant Village
Treasurer only under the following conditions:
      (1)   In the absence of the Village Treasurer and the Deputy Village
Treasurer from the Treasurer’s office in the Municipal Building;
      (2)   When written direction has been given by the Village Treasurer to
such Assistant to exercise such power, or when the President and Board of
Trustees of the village have determined by resolution that the Village
Treasurer and Deputy Village Treasurer are temporarily or permanently
incapacitated to perform such functions.
   (F)   Compensation. The Assistant Treasurer shall receive as compensation
such sum as shall be set forth in the annual appropriation ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 1-8A-7) (Ord. 87-141, passed 12-22-1987)
VILLAGE ATTORNEYS
§ 31.060 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Office created; appointment. There is hereby created the office of
Village Attorney. The Village Attorney shall be appointed by the Board of
Trustees pursuant to a majority vote. Following his or her appointment, the
Village Attorney shall take office. If deemed appropriate by the Village Board,
the Village Attorney shall serve in accordance with a written retainer
agreement or contract approved by the Village Board. If the Village Board does
not expressly approve a written retainer agreement or contract, the Village
Attorney’s duties shall include those duties as set forth in division (D)
below, and his or her service shall continue at the pleasure of the Village
Board for an indefinite term.
   (B)   Bond. The bond of the Village Attorney shall be in the penal sum of
$1,000 conditioned for the faithful discharge of his or her duties.
   (C)   Compensation. The Village Attorney shall be paid such sum as is set in
the annual appropriation ordinance for his or her general services and advice.
For services rendered in the conduct of suits, bonding problems and other
problems requiring unusual expenditure of time not contemplated in the duties
enumerated herein, he or she shall receive such additional compensation based
upon the fair and reasonable value of such services.
   (D)   Duties. The Village Attorney shall:
      (1)   Be a legal advisor to the President and the Trustees and shall
render advice on all legal questions affecting the village whenever requested
to do so by the President or the Trustees. Upon request, he or she shall reduce
such opinion to writing;
      (2)   Draw such ordinances, deeds, leases and other papers as may be
required of him or her by the President and Trustees;
      (3)   Attend meetings of the Village Board;
      (4)   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or in
equity to which the village may be a party or in which it may be interested, or
which may be brought against it or by any officer of the village on behalf of
the village or in the capacity of such person as an officer or employee of the
village;
      (5)   Take such action as may be necessary to accomplish the full
enforcement of all judgments and decrees rendered or entered in favor of the
village;
      (6)   Be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Firefighters’ Pension
Fund of the village; and
      (7)   Process and carry through to completion all special assessment
proceedings in the village.
(1988 Code, § 1-8B-1) (Ord. 08-453, passed 10-20-2008)
§ 31.061 SPECIAL PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Office created; appointment. There is hereby created the office of
Special Prosecuting Attorney. The Special Prosecuting Attorney shall be
appointed by the Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Bond. The bond of the Special Prosecuting Attorney shall be in the
penal sum of $1,000 conditioned for the faithful discharge of his or her
duties.
   (C)   Compensation. The Special Prosecuting Attorney shall be paid the sum
as is set in the annual appropriation ordinance for his or her services.
   (D)   Duties. The Special Prosecuting Attorney shall prosecute all ordinance
violations and traffic or motor vehicle violations of state statutes committed
in the village, and appeals thereof, to which the village may be a party.
(1988 Code, § 1-8B-2)
§ 31.062 SPECIAL ATTORNEYS.
   (A)   Appointment. Notwithstanding any other provisions to the contrary, the
Village President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees, may appoint an
additional attorney or additional attorneys to perform special legal services
designated by the President and the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Bond. The bond of any special attorney shall be in the penal sum of
$1,000 conditioned on the faithful discharge of his or her duties.
   (C)   Compensation. Any special attorney shall receive for services rendered
compensation based upon the fair and reasonable value of his or her services.
(1988 Code, § 1-8B-3)
VILLAGE ENGINEER
§ 31.075 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the office of Village Engineer who shall be
appointed by the President, by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 1-8C-1)
§ 31.076 QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be appointed to such office unless such person is registered
under the provisions of the state’s Professional Engineering Act, being 225
ILCS 325/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
(1988 Code, § 1-8C-2)
§ 31.077 DUTIES.
   The Village Engineer shall perform such duties as are prescribed by statute
or ordinance, and shall have the responsibility for the design and the
supervision of construction of all public improvements and facilities and such
other duties as pertain to the office, or as the President and Board of
Trustees direct.
(1988 Code, § 1-8C-3)
VILLAGE PLUMBER
§ 31.090 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Village Plumber who shall be
responsible to the Superintendent of Public Works.
   (B)   He or she shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 1-8D-1)
§ 31.091 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall be appointed as Village Plumber unless he or she has
been a resident of the village for one year.
   (B)   He or she must be a journeyman plumber licensed by the state under the
state’s Plumbing License Law, being 225 ILCS 320/1 et seq. as now or hereafter
amended.
(1988 Code, § 1-8D-2)
§ 31.092 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Plumber to perform the following:
   (A)   Repair, service, replace (when necessary) water meters in the village;
   (B)   Maintain and repair the equipment of the Water Department;
   (C)   Make all water tap connections for the village;
   (D)   Perform all plumbing and accessory appurtenance work required in
village-owned buildings;
   (E)   Maintain and repair the sewer system of the village, as directed;
   (F)   Attend to village affairs 40 hours a week; and
   (G)   Perform such other duties as may from time to time be directed by the
President and Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 1-8D-3)
§ 31.093 COMPENSATION.
   The Plumber shall receive compensation as set forth by ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 1-8D-4)
DIRECTOR OF INSPECTIONAL SERVICES
§ 31.105 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Office created; appointment. There is hereby created a full-time
position in the village to be known as the Director of Inspectional Services,
at the salary to be provided in the annual appropriations ordinance.
   (B)   Appointment and authority. The Director of Inspectional Services shall
be appointed by the President and shall be under the direct supervision of the
Village President’s office, and shall perform a variety of functions for all
departments in a non-sworn capacity.
(Ord. 15-030, passed 3-21-2011)
§ 31.106 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In addition to other powers conferred herein, the Director of Inspectional
Services shall perform the following powers and duties: performs any and all
duties assigned by the President or Village Administrator, including, but not
limited to the following:
   (A)   Enforces village ordinances regarding parking, zoning, housing, health
and other village code related violations:
      (1)   Unauthorized handicap/fire lane parking;
      (2)   Improper village vehicle tax display; and
      (3)   Grass and litter violations.
   (B)   Acts as courier for village documents: delivering of documents from
Clerk’s office and/or Mayor’s office to human resources and other departments,
and vice versa;
   (C)   Coordinate and organize block club startups and neighborhood watch
meetings;
   (D)   May be assigned to handle court files and attend court hearings:
collect moneys from Clerk’s office and deposit at bank;
   (E)   Responsible for the citing and removal of junk and unsafe vehicles as
directed by supervisor five- and ten-day tow violations:
      (1)   Snow route removals; and
      (2)   Abandoned vehicles.
   (F)   Supervises other employees in the Department.
(Ord. 15-030, passed 3-21-2011)
§ 31.107 MINIMUM JOB REQUIREMENTS.
   High school diploma or GED; with the village approval, a combination of
training and experience which provide equivalent knowledge, abilities and
skills. He or she must have a valid driver’s license and be insurable and
bonded by the insurance carrier of the village. Successful completion of
criminal background check, reference checks and must pass security clearance.
Applicants must be of good moral character and habits.
(Ord. 15-030, passed 3-21-2011)
INSPECTOR GENERAL
§ 31.120 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   There is established an office of the village government which shall be
known as the office of Inspector General, which shall include an Inspector
General and such other deputies, assistants and other employees as may be
provided for in the annual appropriation ordinance and/or the annual salary
resolution.
(Ord. 06-340, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 31.121 RETENTION.
   (A)   Retention. The Inspector General shall be appointed to the office of
Inspector General by the Mayor, either as an employee of the village or in the
capacity of a consulting contractor with any and all such rights and benefits
that inure to an employee as the parties may agree.
   (B)   Powers and duties. It shall be the duty of the Inspector General to:
      (1)   Receive and register complaints and information concerning
misconduct, inefficiency and waste within village government;
      (2)   Investigate the performance of governmental officers, employees,
functions and programs, either in response to a complaint or on the Inspector
General’s own initiative, in order to detect and to prevent misconduct,
inefficiency and waste within the programs and the operations of the village
government;
      (3)   Promote economy, efficiency, effectiveness, integrity in the
administration of the programs and operations of the village government by
reviewing programs, identifying any inefficiencies, waste and potential for
misconduct therein and recommending to the President and Board policies and
methods for the elimination of inefficiencies and waste and the prevention of
misconduct;
      (4)   Report to the Mayor and/or Board of Trustees concerning the results
of investigations undertaken by the office of Inspector General;
      (5)   Request information related to an investigation from any employee,
officer, agency or licensee of the village;
      (6)   Conduct public hearing, at his or her discretion, in the course of
an investigation hereunder;
      (7)   Administer oaths and examine witnesses under oath;
      (8)   To issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses for
purposes of examination and the production of documents and other items for
inspection and/or duplication. Issuance of subpoenas shall be subject to the
restrictions contained in §
31.122 of this chapter; and
      (9)   Promulgate rules and regulations for the conduct of investigations
an public hearings consistent with the requirements of due process of law and
equal protection under the law.
(Ord. 06-340, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 31.122 SUBPOENA ISSUANCE AND CONTENTS; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Inspector General shall issue subpoenas only if:
         (a)   He or she is conducting an investigation authorized by this
subchapter;
         (b)   The investigation relates to misconduct within the programs and
operation of village government by any person described in §
31.123 of this chapter;
         (c)   The Inspector General has a reasonable belief that such
misconduct has occurred; and
         (d)   The testimony of the witness or the documents or items sought by
the subpoena are relevant to the investigation.
      (2)   A subpoena shall be served in the same manner as subpoenas issued
under the rules of the state’s Supreme Court to compel appearance of a
deponent, and subject to the same witness and mileage fee fixed by law for such
subpoenas.
   (B)   (1)   A subpoena issued under this subchapter shall identify the
person to whom it is directed and the documents or other items sought thereby,
if any, and the date, time and place for the appearance of the witness and
production of the documents or other items described in the subpoena.
      (2)   In no event shall the date for examination or production be less
than seven days after service of the subpoena.
   (C)   (1)   No later than the time for appearance or production required by
the subpoena, the person to whom the subpoena is directed may object to the
subpoena in whole or in part.
      (2)   The objection shall be in writing, delivered to the Inspector
General and shall specify the grounds for the objection.
      (3)   For seven days after receipt of timely objection to a subpoena, the
Inspector General shall take no action to enforce the subpoena or to initiate
prosecution of the person to whom the subpoena is directed.
      (4)   During this seven-day period, the Inspector General shall consider
the grounds for the objection and may attempt to resolve the objection through
negotiations with the person to whom the subpoena is directed. The seven-day
period may be extended by the Inspector General in order to allow completion of
any negotiations.
      (5)   Negotiations may include such matters as the scope of the subpoena
and the time, place and manner of response thereto.
      (6)   The filing of an objection to a subpoena, and negotiations pursuant
to an objection, shall not constitute refusal to comply with the subpoena, or
interference with or obstruction of an investigation.
(Ord. 06-340, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 31.123 CONDUCT OF VILLAGE OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND OTHER ENTITIES.
   (A)   The powers and duties of the Inspector General shall extend to the
conduct of the following:
      (1)   All elected and appointed officers of the village government in the
performance of their official duties, except as provided below;
      (2)   All employees of the village government in the performance of their
official duties;
      (3)   All contractors and subcontractor providing goods or services to
the village pursuant to a contract;
      (4)   Business entities in seeking contracts or certification of
eligibility for village contracts; and
      (5)   Persons seeking certifications of eligibility for participation in
any village program.
   (B)   (1)   Not withstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the
office of Inspector General shall have no power or authority over the Village
Mayor or the Village Trustees.
      (2)   If the office of the Inspector General receive any complaint
alleging misconduct, inefficiency or waste against the Village Mayor or the
Village Trustees, the Inspector General shall promptly transmit said complaint
to the Chairperson of the Committee on Committees Rules and Ethics, or such
successor committee, shall conduct an investigation of each complaint referred
to it by the office of Inspector General.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the Inspector General from
referring a complaint or information concerning the Village Mayor or a Village
Trustee to the appropriate federal, state or local law enforcement authorities.
(Ord. 06-340, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 31.124 INVESTIGATION REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon conclusion of an investigation the Inspector General shall
issue a summary report thereon.
      (2)   The report shall be filed with the Mayor and may be filed with the
head of each department or other agency affected by or involved in the
investigation.
      (3)   The report shall be provided to the Village Trustees, upon request.
   (B)   The report shall include the following:
      (1)   A description of any complaints or other information received by
the Inspector General pertinent to the investigation;
      (2)   A description of any illegal conduct, inefficiencies or wasted
observed in the course of the investigation;
      (3)   Recommendations for correction of any illegal conduct,
inefficiencies or waste described in the report; and
      (4)   Such other information as the Inspector General may deem relevant
to the investigation or resulting recommendations.
(Ord. 06-340, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 31.125 CONFIDENTIALITY OF EX-INFORMANTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The summary report shall not mention the name of any informant, complainant,
witness or person investigated, except in the following instances:
   (A)   When the copy of the report given to the head any department or agency
recommends disciplinary action against an employee of that village or agency;
   (B)   Where the report makes recommendations concerning any contractor,
subcontractor, applicant for a contract, or person seeking a license, permit or
certification of eligibility for a contract;
   (C)   Where the copy of the report given to the head of a department or
agency make recommendations concerning a person seeking certification of
eligibility for a program administered by the department or agency; and
   (D)   Where the copy given to the Mayor recommends disciplinary action the
head or any employee of an executive department or agency.
(Ord. 06-340, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 31.126 INVESTIGATIONS NOT CONCLUDED WITHIN SIX MONTHS.
   If any investigation is not concluded within six months after its
initiation, the Inspector General shall notify the Mayor of the general nature
of the complaint or information giving rise to the investigation and the reason
for failure to complete the investigation with in six months.
(Ord. 06-340, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 31.127 COOPERATION IN INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every officer, employee, department, agency,
contractor, subcontractor and licensee of the village and every applicant for
certification of eligibility for a village contract or program, to cooperate
with the Inspector General in any investigation or hearing undertaken pursuant
to this subchapter.
   (B)   Every village contract and every bid, proposal, application for
certification of eligibility for a village contract or program shall contain a
statement that the person understands and will abide by all provision of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 06-340, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 31.128 FILES AND REPORTS CONFIDENTIAL; PUBLIC STATEMENTS AUTHORIZED WHEN.
   (A)   All investigator files and reports of the office of Inspector General
shall be confidential and shall not be divulged to any person or agency, except
to the United States Attorney, the state’s Attorney General or the State’s
Attorney of the county, or as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Inspector General is authorized to issue public statements
concerning:
      (1)   An investigation that exonerates an individual who is publicly
known to have been under investigation, where the subject requests such a
state; and
      (2)   An investigation that concern inefficient or wasteful management,
as opposed to individual misconduct or illegality.
(Ord. 06-340, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 31.129 CONDITIONS FOR REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   The Inspector General may be removed prior to the expiration of his or
her term only for cause.
   (B)   The Mayor shall give written notice:
      (1)   To the Board of Trustees of the termination; and
      (2)   To the Inspector General of the cause of his or her intended
removal.
(Ord. 06-340, passed 5-1-2006)
COMPTROLLER AND REVENUE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
§ 31.140 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative
Services. The office shall consist of a Comptroller, and a Deputy Comptroller,
who shall be appointed by the President, and such other persons as are deemed
necessary and appropriate to carry out the duties of the office.
(Ord. 03-213, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 31.141 OATH.
   The Comptroller and Deputy Comptroller shall take the customary oaths of
office prescribed by statute before entering upon the duties of his or her
office. The subscribed oaths shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 03-213, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 31.142 BOND AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Bond. The Comptroller and Deputy Comptroller shall give a bond, before
entering upon the duties of his or her office, in the sum required by the Board
of Trustees, and such amount shall not be less than that required by statute.
This bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her
duties as the Comptroller and shall be conditioned to indemnify the village for
any loss by reason of any neglect of duty or any wrongful act of the Village
Comptroller.
   (B)   Salary. The Comptroller and Deputy Comptroller shall receive as
compensation such sums as may be provided for in the annual Appropriations
(Budget) Ordinance and Resolution Setting Salaries, Compensation, Expense
Accounts and other Remuneration for Employees of the Village of Dolton, as from
time to time amended.
(Ord. 03-213, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 31.143 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Comptroller shall have the power and perform the duties provided
by ordinances of the village and assigned by the Mayor.
   (B)   Among other things, it shall be his or her duty as follows:
      (1)   General powers and duties. To administer and enforce all of the
responsibilities, powers and duties delegated to it by village ordinance,
pursuant to the village municipal code;
      (2)   Special assessments. The Comptroller shall collect all special
assessments and other warrants which by law or the ordinances of the village
may be executed by the Comptroller. To exercise general supervision over
special assessments, as provided in and the preparation and issuance of special
assessments bills, which bills shall be prepared with interest computed thereon
as may be required. The Comptroller shall prepare and safely keep all of the
books and records relating to the special assessments and issuance of bills
therefor. The Comptroller shall prepare and safely keep all books and records
relating to the payment of special assessments;
      (3)   Water collections. The Comptroller shall be responsible for the
billing of water accounts, collection of water bill payments and for the proper
accounting of such collections: To exercise general supervision over water
bills and accounts as provided in the village municipal code, as amended. The
office of Comptroller and Administrative Revenue Services shall see that all
water meters are read for billing purposes; that such meters are kept in a good
state of repair; and that samples of the water supply be taken monthly and
analyzed to ensure the safety of the water supply;
      (4)   Water transfer stamp tax. To exercise general supervision over the
water transfer stamp tax process as set forth in §§
151.235 through
151.244 of this code of ordinances, as amended. The water transfer stamp shall
be issued by the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services
after payment of the tax to the Comptroller. The office of Comptroller and
Revenue Administrative Services shall issue an adhesive stamp or stamps, in a
form prescribed by the village and such stamp(s) shall be affixed to the face
of the deed or instrument of conveyance;
      (5)   Business and license applications. To exercise general supervision
over the approval and issuance of license process as provided in Title XI of
this code of ordinances, as amended. Licenses shall be granted and signed by
the Village President and issued by the office of Comptroller and Revenue
Administrative Services. All applications for licenses and permits, and the
regulations relating thereto as provided in, shall be submitted to the office
of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services, in writing on forms to be
prescribed and furnished by the Village Board and the village as provided in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances, as amended. The Comptroller shall keep a
record of all applications;
      (6)   Duplicate licenses; vehicle tags. To exercise general supervision
over the issuance of duplicate licenses; vehicle tags, as provided in §
110.08 of this code of ordinances, as amended.
         (a)   Duplicate licenses. The office of Comptroller and Revenue
Administrative Services, upon satisfactory evidence of such loss or destruction
being filed with the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services
and the payment to the village of $5 for such duplicate, the office of
Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services shall issue a duplicate
thereof.
         (b)   Vehicle tags. The office of Comptroller and Revenue
Administrative Services shall furnish each licensee with a tag or sticker for
each vehicle covered by the license.
      (7)   Notices of license terminations. To exercise general supervision
over the issuance of Notices of License Terminations, as provided in §
110.10 of this code of ordinances, as amended;
      (8)   Transfer of license or permit; change of location. To exercise
general supervision over the transfer of license or permit, change of location
process, as provided in §
110.11 of this code of ordinances, as amended;
      (9)   Fishing, hunting and trapping licenses. To exercise general
supervision over the issuance of fishing, hunting and trapping licenses as
provided in by the village. The office of Comptroller and Revenue
Administrative Services shall issue said applications and licenses for fishing,
hunting and trapping. The Comptroller shall accept and remit all fees paid for
hunting and trapping licenses in accordance with the Illinois Revised Statutes.
The Comptroller shall remit all fees collected for said licenses on behalf of
the state to the state’s Department of Conservation and make reports as
required by said Department. He or she shall name the state’s Department of
Conservation in the Village Clerk’s official bond to cover the full value of
license payments received, but unaccounted for. The Clerk shall be permitted to
charge an additional fee of $0.25 in the case of resident hunting and trapping
licenses, and $0.50 in the case of non-resident hunting licenses;
      (10)   Fishing licenses. The Comptroller shall have authority to issue
licenses for the taking of fish and shall remit all fees collected for said
licenses and make reports as required to the state’s Department of
Conservation. He or she shall name the state’s Department of Conservation in
his or her official bond to cover the full value of licenses sold or
unaccounted for. The Comptroller shall be permitted to charge as an additional
fee those sums permitted;
      (11)   Collections of fines. To exercise general supervision over the
receipt and collection of moneys due and owing the village pursuant to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances;
      (12)   Collection of parking violation fines. To exercise general
supervision over the receipt and collection of moneys due and owing the village
pursuant to as §§
75.55 through
75.57 of this code of ordinances, as amended:
         (a)   Computing the fees owed for release of vehicle;
         (b)   Collection of any fees assessed at hearing; and
         (c)   Computing the fees owed to the towing company for impounded
vehicles.
      (13)   Collect fees; remit to Treasurer. The Comptroller shall collect
and account for vehicle license fees and collections; shall collect all
building and zoning fees; water and sewer tap charges and inspection fees;
deposits to ensure construction of sidewalks; and such other deposits as are
required by the Building Code and ordinances of the village. The Comptroller
shall also be responsible for the collection of special events, hall rents and
business fees. The Collector shall make proper accounting of such collections
and all other collections received by the office of Comptroller and Revenue
Administrative Services and shall remit to the Village Treasurer all moneys
received from time to time as required by ordinance;
      (14)   Statistical records. To establish, maintain and preserve
statistical records of revenue and to report to the Mayor from time to time, or
as often as the Mayor deems necessary, upon such statistics;
      (15)   Books and records. To prepare, maintain and safely keep all books
and records relating to such collection of moneys; shall make proper accounting
of such collections and other collections received by the Department of
Revenue; and shall timely remit to the Treasurer all moneys received from time
to time as required;
      (16)   Rules and regulations. To make and enforce such reasonable rules
and regulations as may be necessary to effectively administer any of the powers
herein granted now which may be granted by other ordinances adopted by the
corporate authorities, and to publish such rules and regulations and make the
same available to such members of the public as may desire them;
      (17)   Payment records. To investigate and maintain records of all
persons required by the municipal code to pay debts, fines or fees, determine
whether all persons have complied with such provisions, and in cases of evasion
of payment, to serve notices of delinquency and upon advice, counsel and
representation by the Village Attorney, request proceedings to be instituted to
enforce such provisions and collections;
      (18)   Indebtedness to village. To report to the Village Treasurer all
persons owing and indebtedness to the village. Said notice shall include the
name, address, date debt was incurred, ticket numbers (if applicable) and the
total amount due and owing the village; and
      (19)   Prosecution. To take such steps, actions and to request
prosecution by the Village Prosecutor, for the purpose of enforcing ordinances
relating to revenue receivable by the village.
(Ord. 03-213, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 31.144 BOOKS AND RECORDS; EXAMINATION.
   The Comptroller, Deputy Comptroller or any person certified by the Mayor or
the Comptroller may enter the premises of any business establishment for
inspection and examination of books and records in order to effectuate the
proper administration and enforcement of any collection of revenue owed to the
village. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere
with the Comptroller, or his or her duly authorized deputy or representative,
in the discharge of the duties in the performance of this subchapter. It shall
be the duty of every owner of a business to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the Comptroller, or any deputies or representative
thereof, shall at all times have full access, which records shall include
employees, wages, assets, income, expenses and the like.
(Ord. 03-213, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 31.145 PAYMENT FOR DEBTS OWED TO THE VILLAGE.
   All payments for debts, fines, fees, licenses, fees and the like, the
collection of which are the responsibility of the office of Comptroller and
Revenue Administrative Services, shall be made payable to the office of
Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services.
(Ord. 03-213, passed 4-21-2003)
VILLAGE MARSHAL
§ 31.160 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENTS.
   There is hereby created the office of Village Marshal. The Village Marshal
shall be appointed by the Village President, with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees. The President is hereby authorized to appoint one or more
Village Deputy Marshals. The office of Village Marshal shall consist of the
Village Marshal, the Deputy Village Marshals and such other members as may be
provided from time to time by the President and the Board of Trustees. Neither
the Village Marshal, nor any of the Deputy Village Marshals, shall be
considered employees of the village, but they shall be considered officers of
the village.
(Ord. 97-324, passed 5-19-1997)
§ 31.161 OATHS.
   The Village Marshal and the Deputy Village Marshals, shall also, before
entering upon the duties of his or her office, take and subscribe the oath or
affirmation prescribed by § 3 of Art. XIII of the Constitution, which shall be
filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 97-324, passed 5-19-1997)
§ 31.162 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Village Marshal and the Deputy Village Marshals serve at the will
of the President and the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The appointments of the Village Marshal and the Deputy Village
Marshals may be terminated by the Village President subject to the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The appointment, if not terminated sooner, expires upon the expiration
of the term of the appointing President.
(Ord. 97-324, passed 5-19-1997)
§ 31.163 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Village Marshal and the Deputy Village Marshals shall not be members of
the regular Police Department of the village. Deputy Marshals need not be
residents of the village. Deputy Marshals need not be residents of the village.
(Ord. 97-324, passed 5-19-1997)
§ 31.164 CRIMINAL RECORD.
   Prior to appointment, the Village Marshal and the Deputy Village Marshals
shall be fingerprinted and their fingerprints shall be checked with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, Washington, D.C., for any possible criminal record. No
person shall be appointed as Village Marshal or Deputy Village Marshal if he or
she has been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. 97-324, passed 5-19-1997)
§ 31.165 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Village Marshal and every Deputy Marshal,
when any criminal offense or breach of peace is committed or attempted in his
or her presence, forthwith to apprehend the offender and bring him or her
before a judge, to be dealt with according to law; to suppress riots and
unlawful assemblies; to keep the peace; to without delay to serve and execute
all warrants and other process to him or her lawfully directed; and to exercise
all other powers as conservators of the peace that the corporate authorities
may prescribe.
   (B)   Deputy Marshals shall have the following powers and duties when
properly assigned and on duty:
      (1)   To aid or direct traffic in the municipality;
      (2)   To aid in the control of natural or human-made disasters;
      (3)   To aid in the case of civil disorder; and
      (4)   To perform normal and regular police duties when assigned by the
Chief of Police on occasions when it is impractical for members of the regular
Police Department to perform normal and regular police duties.
   (C)   The Village Marshal and the Deputy Village Marshals shall, at all
times during the performance of their duties, be subject to the direction and
control of the Chief of Police of the village.
(Ord. 97-324, passed 5-19-1997)
§ 31.166 TRAINING REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Village Marshal and the Village Deputy Marshal, prior to entering
upon any of their duties, shall receive a course of training in the use of
weapons and other procedures by the Village Chief of Police.
   (B)   (1)   Such course of training shall be not less than 30 days or 25
hours in duration.
      (2)   Upon completion of the course of training, the Chief of Police
shall file a certificate attesting to the auxiliary police officer’s completion
of said course with the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 97-324, passed 5-19-1997)
§ 31.167 IDENTIFICATION.
   Identification symbols worn by the Village Marshal and the Deputy Village
Marshals shall be different and distinct from the regular Police Department and
the auxiliary police and shall be selected and chosen by the Chief of Police of
the village.
(Ord. 97-324, passed 5-19-1997)
§ 31.168 FIREARMS.
   The Village Marshal and the Deputy Marshals shall not carry firearms, except
with the permission of the village’s Chief of Police.
(Ord. 97-324, passed 5-19-1997)
§ 31.169 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Marshal and the Deputy Village Marshals shall be paid such sums
as is set forth in the annual appropriation ordinance for each hour of service
performed; provided, such service is performed at the direction of the Chief of
Police.
(Ord. 97-324, passed 5-19-1997)
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.180 ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be hereby established the appointed position of Village
Administrator.
(Ord. 93-207, passed 4-27-1993)
§ 31.181 ASSISTING MAYOR.
   The Village Administrator shall assist the Mayor in the direction of the
operations of the various village departments and agencies and shall assist the
Mayor in such other duties as the Mayor from time to time may assign.
(Ord. 93-207, passed 4-27-1993)
§ 31.182 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   The Village Administrator shall be an employee who shall be appointed and
removed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 93-207, passed 4-27-1993)
§ 31.183 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Administrator shall receive compensation at a rate to be
determined by the Mayor and the Board of Trustees through the appropriate Board
salary resolution.
(Ord. 93-207, passed 4-27-1993)
LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL
§ 31.195 OFFICE CREATED.
   It is in the best interests of the village for the Village Board of Trustees
to retain legislative counsel independently to serve as legal advisor to the
Village Board and the village.
(Ord. 21-009, passed 9-2-2021)
§ 31.196 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Legislative Counsel shall counsel on matters relating to their
legislative duties, which may include, but are not limited to, the drafting of
ordinances, contract documents, opinions on the powers of the legislative
branch, analysis of the validity of actions taken by the village, review and
defense of litigation issues, representation of the corporate authorities
regarding legislative matters in litigation, defend the Village Board and its
members against claims and lawsuits, advise the Village Board on other proposed
amendments to this code of ordinances, settlement of litigation, tax increment
financing, economic development, other economic, finance and tax related issues
as may come before the Village Board and any committees thereof, and providing
other advice on matters within the purview of the legislative branch of
municipal government including labor matters. The legislative counsel shall
attend meetings of the Village Board, and any committees thereof, as requested
by the members of the Village Board. The Legislative Counsel shall be
parliamentarian of the Village Board and, upon request, shall render opinion
and advice on questions of parliamentary law and procedure applicable to
matters arising before the Village Board. The Trustees shall each be authorized
to direct questions related to their legislative duties to the independent
legislative counsel. Trustees may seek legal counsel regarding any matters
within the range of items specified above.
(Ord. 21-009, passed 9-2-2021)
§ 31.197 COMPENSATION; RATES.
   (A)   The independent legislative counsel shall be retained at a rate
authorized by the Village Board for any term, but not exceeding the term of the
Village President. The hourly rate shall be equal to the rate paid to the
Village Attorney or special counsel.
   (B)   The legislative counsel shall be appointed by majority vote of the
members of the Village Board.
(Ord. 21-009, passed 9-2-2021)
§ 31.198 ASSISTING THE LOCAL ELECTION OFFICIAL.
   The Legislative Counsel shall assist the village’s Local Election Official
as may be deemed necessary and prudent with respect to the nomination paper and
objection filing processes and in the initial preparations and empaneling of
any municipal officers electoral board, including, but not limited to, advising
and assistance with any notices, proper service, draft rules of procedure and
any other matters required by law for any electoral board and/or the Local
Election Official.
(Ord. 24-015, passed 11-6-2024)
INTERNAL AUDITOR
§ 31.210 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION.
   The Board of Trustees hereby create the position of Internal Auditor, who
shall have full access to all village financial statements, including bank
records, TIF records, village fund records, payroll records, accounts payable
and accounts receivable and any other accounts/funds the Internal Auditor deems
necessary to provide updates to the Board of Trustees as to the current state
of the village’s finances.
(Ord. 24-001, passed 1-24-2024)
§ 31.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty has been prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Retaliation prohibited; penalty. No person shall retaliate
against, punish or penalize any other person for complaining to cooperation
with or assisting the Inspector General in the performance of his or her
office. Any person who violates the provisions of this division (B)(1) and §§
31.120 through
31.129 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $300 and not
more than $500 for each violation.
      (2)   Obstructing or interfering with investigation; penalty. No person
shall willfully refuse to comply with a subpoena issued by the Inspector
General or otherwise knowingly interfere with or obstruct an investigation
authorized by §§
31.120 through
31.129 of this chapter and conducted by an announced investigator of the office
of Inspector General. Any person who willfully violates the provisions of this
division (B)(2) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $300, and not more
than $500, for each such offense, or imprisonment for a period of not less than
30 days and not more than six months, or both a fine and imprisonment. Each day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
Actions seeking the imposition of a fine only shall be filed as quasi-criminal
actions subject to the provisions of the state’s Code of Civil Procedure, being
735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq. as now or hereafter amended. Actions seeking
incarceration, or incarceration and a fine, shall be filed and prosecuted as
misdemeanor actions under the procedure set forth in § 1-2-1.1 of the state’s
Municipal Code, as amended.
      (3)   Violation; penalty; discharge or other discipline. Any employee or
appointed officer of the village who violates any provision of §§
31.120 through
31.129 of this chapter shall be subject to discharge (or such other discipline
as may be specified in an applicable collective bargaining agreement) in
addition to any other penalty provided in this division (B).
(Ord. 06-340, passed 5-1-2006)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Department of Public Works
   
32.001   Creation
   
32.002   Functions and duties
   
32.003   Offices created
   
32.004   Qualifications and selection
   
32.005   Compensation of officers
   
32.006   Duties of officers
   
32.007   Report required
   
32.008   Field Supervisor
Board of Health
   
32.020   Created; membership
   
32.021   Jurisdiction
   
32.022   Powers and duties
   
32.023   Unhealthy premises
   
32.024   Police to assist
Board of Local Improvements
   
32.035   Created; membership
   
32.036   Secretary of the Board
   
32.037   Powers and duties
   
32.038   Compensation
Plan Commission
   
32.050   Created; membership and appointment
   
32.051   Officers
   
32.052   Meetings
   
32.053   Powers and duties
   
32.054   Assistance authorized
Civil Service Commission
   
32.065   Created; membership
   
32.066   Appointment; terms of office; vacancies
   
32.067   Qualifications
   
32.068   Oath
   
32.069   Bond and compensation
   
32.070   Duties
   
32.071   Annual report
   
32.072   Facilities for meetings
   
32.073   Expenditures
   
32.074   Attorney for the Commission
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
32.085   Definition
   
32.086   Created; appointment; terms of office
   
32.087   Removals from office; vacancies
   
32.088   Meetings and procedures
Blood Commission
   
32.100   Created; membership
   
32.101   Appointment; term of office
   
32.102   Qualifications
   
32.103   Organization
   
32.104   Meetings
   
32.105   Purpose and duties
   
32.106   Incurring financial liability
Economic Development Authority
   
32.120   Declaration of policy
   
32.121   Creation of Authority
   
32.122   Authority
   
32.123   Created
   
32.124   Board organization
   
32.125   Powers and duties
   
32.126   Initial Fund created
   
32.127   Surplus funds
   
32.128   Dolton Development Center; management
   
32.129   Budget; fiscal year; annual report
   
32.130   No taxing authority
   
32.131   Board meetings and public records
Senior Citizens’ Commission
   
32.145   Created; appointment; officers
   
32.146   Terms of office
   
32.147   Qualifications
   
32.148   Powers and duties
   
32.149   Compensation
Youth Resources Commission
   
32.160   Established; membership and appointment
   
32.161   Term of office; vacancies
   
32.162   Qualifications
   
32.163   Organization and procedures
   
32.164   Purpose
   
32.165   Powers and duties
   
32.166   Facilities and services available
   
32.167   Incurring financial liability
   
32.168   Compensation
Historic Preservation Commission
   
32.180   Established; membership; appointment
   
32.181   Term of office; vacancies
   
32.182   Qualifications
   
32.183   Organization and meetings
   
32.184   Duties
   
32.185   Incurring financial liability
   
32.186   Compensation
Human Relations Commission
   
32.200   Created; membership
   
32.201   Officers
   
32.202   Powers and duties
   
32.203   Funding
Key Outreach Commission
   
32.215   Created
   
32.216   Structure and committees
   
32.217   Members
   
32.218   Qualifications
   
32.219   Purpose
   
32.220   Duties and responsibilities
   
32.221   Facilities available
   
32.222   Confidentiality
   
32.223   Incurring financial liability
   
32.224   Compensation
Department of Administrative Services
   
32.235   Creation
   
32.236   Oath
   
32.237   Functions and duties
Juanita Newell Cook Commission
   
32.250   Created
   
32.251   Structure and committees
   
32.252   Members
   
32.253   Qualifications
   
32.254   Purpose
   
32.255   Facilities available
   
32.256   Confidentiality
   
32.257   Incurring financial liability
   
32.258   Compensation
**** DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS ****
§ 32.001 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Department of Public Works which shall consist of
a Superintendent of Public Works, an Assistant Superintendent for Water and
Sewer Operations and an Assistant Superintendent for Streets, Alleys and
Sanitation Operations and such numbers of other employees as may from time to
time be determined by the President and Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 32.002 FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   The functions and duties of the Department of Public Works shall be to
supervise and control within the village:
   (A)   Streets, alleys and sanitation to include:
      (1)   The maintenance of all public streets and alleys in the village;
      (2)   The maintenance of parkways, trees and shrubbery in the village;
      (3)   The maintenance of all motor vehicle equipment owned by the village
other than the Police Department and Fire Department motor vehicles; and
      (4)   The collection and disposal of refuse by the village.
   (B)   Sewage;
   (C)   Water distribution; and
   (D)   All village-owned properties and buildings.
(1988 Code, § 1-9-2)
§ 32.003 OFFICES CREATED.
   There are hereby created the offices of Superintendent of Public Works,
Assistant Superintendent of Public Works for Water and Sewer Operations and
Assistant Superintendent of Public Works for Streets, Alleys and Sanitation
Operations.
(1988 Code, § 1-9-3)
§ 32.004 QUALIFICATIONS AND SELECTION.
   The Superintendent of Public Works, the Assistant Superintendent of Public
Works for Water and Sewer Operations and the Assistant Superintendent of Public
Works for Streets, Alleys and Sanitation Operations shall be appointed by the
President of the village, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees
and shall be required, prior to such selection, to possess the following
qualifications:
   (A)   Minimum five years’ experience in public works and/or a degree in
public administration;
   (B)   High school diploma;
   (C)   Comply with residency regulations in effect at time of selection;
   (D)   Possess basic knowledge of all streets and alleys located in the
village;
   (E)   Possess basic knowledge of all departments as enumerated in §
32.002 of this chapter;
   (F)   Possess basic knowledge of the operations of all village mechanical
equipment;
   (G)   Possess the ability to read and interpret architectural drawings as
well as water and sewer atlases;
   (H)   Possess a working knowledge and understanding of the state motor fuel
tax funds as they apply to the village; and
   (I)   The Assistant Superintendent of Public Works for Water and Sewer
Operations shall possess a state Class C public water supply operator
certificate of competency.
(1988 Code, § 1-9-4) (Ord. 86-135, passed 7-29-1986; Ord. 90-106, passed 2-27-
1990)
§ 32.005 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS.
   Compensation of the Superintendent and Assistant Superintendents of Public
Works shall be set by appropriation ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 1-9-5)
§ 32.006 DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   The Superintendent of Public Works shall have immediate supervision and
control over the Assistant Superintendents of Public Works for Water and Sewer
and for Streets, Alleys and Sanitation and the Assistant Superintendents shall
have responsibility for the supervision and control of their respective
departments.
(1988 Code, § 1-9-6)
§ 32.007 REPORT REQUIRED.
   Within 60 days after the beginning of the fiscal year, the Superintendent of
Public Works shall make a report to the President and Board of Trustees of the
activities for the preceding fiscal year, together with such recommendations as
may be appropriate.
(1988 Code, § 1-9-7) (Ord. 86-135, passed 7-29-1986)
§ 32.008 FIELD SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   There is hereby created the position of field supervisor (formerly
known as “foreperson”). The number of such positions shall be determined from
time to time by the President and Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Field supervisors shall be selected by appointment by the President
of the village with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   Field supervisors shall be required to direct operations of
Department of Public Works equipment operators, drivers and laborers and shall
coordinate such operations with the Superintendent and Assistant
Superintendents for the Department.
      (2)   Additionally, field supervisors shall be immediately responsible
for the discipline of subordinates, response to citizens complaints, as
required and directed by the Superintendent and Assistant Superintendents, and
shall assist in the preparation of budget and planning for the Department.
   (C)   Termination. Any person appointed to the position of Superintendent,
Assistant Superintendent or field supervisor shall, upon termination from such
position, be entitled to resume service in any civil service classified
position that such person may have held or any position held under
classification in the Department of Public Works of driver, laborer, equipment
operator, mechanic or custodian pursuant to the collective bargaining agreement
between the village and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees, Council 31, AFL-CIO, unless such person has been discharged for
cause or otherwise surrendered entitlement to their original position or
classification.
   (D)   Compensation. Compensation for field supervisors shall be as may be
provided for in the annual Appropriations (Budget) Ordinance and Resolution
Setting Salaries, Compensation, Expense Accounts and other Remuneration for
Employees of the Village of Dolton, as from time to time amended.
(1988 Code, § 1-9-8) (Ord. 89-132, passed 12-12-1989; Ord. 97-315, passed - -
1997)
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 32.020 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created and established a Board of Health in and for the
village, which shall consist of the President who shall, by virtue of this
office, be a member and President of the Board of Health, and of two Trustees
of the village to be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of
the Trustees. The Board of Health may employ a qualified and reputable licensed
physician and surgeon and such other persons possessing necessary technical
qualification to assist the Board in the superintendence and enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter and all other provisions of this code relative to
or affecting public health.
(1988 Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 32.021 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of the Board of Health shall extend over the village and to
a point one-half mile beyond the limits of the village and all rules and
regulations of the Board of Health relating to sanitation and public health and
the abatement of nuisances shall apply to and be in force over such territory.
(1988 Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 32.022 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General. The Board of Health shall exercise a general supervision over
the health of the village and of the people residing and being therein and
shall take such steps and employ such measures as are necessary or expedient to
promote the cleanliness and sanitation of the village.
   (B)   Organization. The Board is hereby vested with power to adopt bylaws
and reasonable rules and regulations to secure the objects of its organization.
   (C)   Nuisances and nuisance abatement. The Board shall have power to define
what shall be deemed nuisances and to abate the same.
   (D)   Disease control.
      (1)   The Board shall have full charge of the prevention, restriction and
suppression of communicable diseases in its jurisdiction, herein described, and
it shall be the duty of the Board to make and enforce such rules and
regulations tending to check and suppress the spread of the disease or diseases
as may be necessary. For this purpose, it shall have power to quarantine any
house or place where any infected person may be, and cause a notice or notices
of warning to be put thereon, and to require the disinfection of the house or
place; and, in general, it shall have authority in matters of quarantine, may
declare and enforce quarantine when none exists and may modify, relax or remove
quarantine after it has established same.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Board to investigate into the cause of
dangerously contagious or infectious diseases, especially when existing in
epidemic form, and to take means to restrict and suppress the same. Whenever
any dangerously contagious or infectious disease shall become or threaten to
become epidemic in the village, the Board may enforce such measures as it may
deem necessary to protect the public health.
   (E)   Enforce state rules and regulations. It shall be the duty of the Board
to enforce and observe the rules, regulations and orders of the state’s
Department of Public Health and all state laws pertaining to the preservation
of the health of the people in its jurisdiction.
   (F)   Investigations; duty powers; arrest powers.
      (1)   Investigations. The Board shall have authority to make or cause to
be made such sanitary investigations as it may from time to time deem necessary
for the preservation and improvement of the public’s health.
      (2)   Duty powers; arrest powers. For the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this subchapter, the members of the Board of Health, its
employees and officers and any police officer acting under direction of said
Board or its members or officials, shall be permitted to enter at any
reasonable hour any premises, house, store, stable, manufactory or other
building, and they shall have the right to arrest or cause to be arrested any
person who shall violate any of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (G)   Additional powers and duties. The Board shall have such further powers
and duties as may from time to time be conferred or placed upon it by
ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 32.023 UNHEALTHY PREMISES.
   Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the Board of Health that the
condition of any building or premises is injurious to the health and dangerous
to the lives of the occupants or the public, it shall be the duty of the Board
of Health to make a thorough examination of such building and premises and
direct and instruct the owner or owners or occupants or the person or persons
responsible therefor, or some of them, as to the remedy of such conditions and,
if this be not remedied within a reasonable time, the owner or owners of such
building, and the person or persons putting any such building or premises into
any such condition or responsible therefor shall be jointly and severally
guilty of an additional violation of this section for each period of 24 hours
that shall elapse after they have been notified by the Board of Health that the
condition of such building or premises is injurious to the health or dangerous
to the lives of the occupants or the public and until they shall have remedied
the condition or premises.
(1988 Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 32.024 POLICE TO ASSIST.
   The village’s police officers shall assist the Board of Health in the
performance of its duties when called upon by said Board of Health or any
member thereof.
(1988 Code, § 2-1-5)
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 32.035 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby established in and for the village a Board of Local
Improvements, consisting of the Village President who shall be president of the
Board and the six Village Trustees who shall be members of the Board of Local
Improvements.
(1988 Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 32.036 SECRETARY OF THE BOARD.
   The Village Clerk shall be ex-officio secretary of the Board of Local
Improvements and for such services shall receive compensation of $1,200 per
year, payable in equal monthly installments of $100 per month.
(1988 Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. passed 1-14-1974)
§ 32.037 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Local Improvements shall have all of the powers and authorities
conferred pursuant to Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 24, Art. 9, Div. 2, being 50 ILCS 15
as now or hereafter amended, and shall perform the duties assigned to it by
said statute.
(1988 Code, § 2-2-3)
§ 32.038 COMPENSATION.
   The following salaries are hereby established for the president and members
of the Board of Local Improvements:
   (A)   Salary of the President: $1,200 per year, payable in equal monthly
installments of $100 per month; and
   (B)   Salary of each member of the Board of Local Improvements: $1,200 per
year, payable in equal monthly installments of $100 per month.
(1988 Code, § 2-2-4) (Ord. passed 1-14-1975)
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 32.050 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Plan Commission, which shall
be a department of the village government.
   (B)   (1)   The Plan Commission shall consist of five members who shall be
residents of the village.
      (2)   The members shall be appointed by the Village President to serve a
term of one year, or until a successor is appointed, and said appointments are
subject to the approval of the village’s Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 04-273, passed 10-18-2004; Ord. 11-518, passed 3-7-
2011)
§ 32.051 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Secretary. The Village Clerk shall be ex-officio secretary of the Plan
Commission and is empowered to employ a recording secretary for the purpose of
recording and transcribing the proceedings of the Commission.
   (B)   Chairperson of the Commission. One of the members of the Plan
Commission shall be designated by the President, with the consent of the Board
of Trustees, as Chairperson and shall hold office of Chairperson until his or
her successor is appointed.
(1988 Code, § 2-3-2)
§ 32.052 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings shall be held on the second Wednesday of each
month at the hour of 6:30 p.m. in the Village Hall, unless such day shall be a
recognized holiday. In that event, the regular meeting shall be held on the
next day, providing it is not a holiday.
      (2)   Regular meetings may be cancelled by the Chairperson not less than
48 hours’ notification to members.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson on
48 hours’ written notification to the members.
   (C)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of four members and no final action
shall be taken on any measure before it, except on the concurrence of four of
the members.
   (D)   Absences from meetings.
      (1)   Three consecutive absences from any regularly scheduled meeting or
three absences in any municipal year shall constitute resignation of said
member unless such absence was for good cause.
      (2)   GOOD CAUSE shall mean only illness of the member, serious illness
of one of the member’s immediate family, death in the member’s immediate family
or absence from the county by reason of scheduled annual vacation.
(1988 Code, § 2-3-3) (Ord. 04-255, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 32.053 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the President and Board of Trustees a plan
or plans for the development and redevelopment of the village and contiguous
unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond the
corporate limits of the village and not included in any other municipality.
Such a plan or plans when adopted by the President and Board of Trustees shall
be known as the Official Plan, or part thereof, of the village. Such plan or
plans may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts,
each of which when adopted shall be the Official Plan, or part thereof, of the
village. To provide for the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the
inhabitants of the village and contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall
establish reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for
resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment,
including reasonable requirements for public streets, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, parks, playgrounds, school grounds and other public
grounds;
   (B)   To prepare and recommend to the President and Board of Trustees from
time to time, such changes in the Plan or any part thereof as may be deemed
necessary by the President and Board of Trustees or by the Plan Commission;
   (C)   To prepare and recommend to the President and Board of Trustees from
time to time, plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in
pursuance of such Official Plan;
   (D)   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the Official Plan, to further the
making of such improvements and generally to promote the realization of the
Official Plan;
   (E)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (F)   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area;
   (G)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of the statutes of the state as may be conferred by the President and
the Board of Trustees under such statutes;
   (H)   To keep written records of its proceedings which shall be open at all
times to public inspection;
   (I)   To file an annual report with the President and Board of Trustees,
setting forth its transactions and recommendations; and
   (J)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the village and to
recommend zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
(1988 Code, § 2-3-4)
§ 32.054 ASSISTANCE AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Commission may, at the discretion of the President and Board of
Trustees, employ necessary help whose salaries, wages and other necessary
expenses shall be provided for by adequate appropriation made by the President
and Board of Trustees from the public funds.
   (B)   If said Plan Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical
advice or services, it may be done upon authority from the President and Board
of Trustees and appropriations therefor by said President and Board of
Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 2-3-5)
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
§ 32.065 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created a Civil Service Commission which shall consist of
five members. The members of the Commission shall be considered officers of the
village.
(1988 Code, § 2-5-1) (Ord. 95-284, passed 7-5-1995)
§ 32.066 APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The members shall be appointed by the President and each member shall
hold his or her office for three years and until his or her respective
successor has been appointed and qualified. No appointment may be made within
30 days of the expiration of the term of the office of the President, and any
purported appointment made within such time shall be void. All members
heretofore appointed shall remain in office until the expiration of their terms
of office. Not more than three members of the same political party shall be
appointed to the Commission.
   (B)   Whenever a vacancy occurs by reason of death or resignation of a
member, the appointment shall be for the balance of the unexpired term.
(1988 Code, § 2-5-2) (Ord. 85-140, passed 12-12-1985; Ord. 95-284, passed 7-5-
1995; Ord. 00-139, passed 1-18-2000)
§ 32.067 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Each member must be a citizen of the United States.
   (B)   (1)   At the time of his or her appointment, he or she may not hold
any lucrative office or employment under the United States, the state or any
municipality or other political subdivision of the state, and the acceptance of
such an office during his or her term of appointment shall constitute a
resignation as a member of the Civil Service Commission.
      (2)   Before the President shall appoint any new member, such person must
file an affidavit as to his or her local political party affiliation or, if
such person does not belong to a local political party, then as to his or her
state or national political party affiliations.
(1988 Code, § 2-5-3) (Ord. 00-138, passed 1-18-2000)
§ 32.068 OATH.
   Each member, before entering upon his or her duties, shall take and
subscribe to the oath prescribed by the Constitution. This oath, so subscribed,
shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 2-5-4)
§ 32.069 BOND AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Bond. Each member, before entering upon his or her duties, shall
execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of $1,000 conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his or her duties. Said bond shall be for the term of
office of the member. He or she shall file the same with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Compensation. Each member shall serve without compensation.
(1988 Code, § 2-5-5)
§ 32.070 DUTIES.
   The Commissioners shall classify all of the offices and all of the places of
employment in the village, except for the elected officials, appointed
officials subject to confirmation by the corporate authorities, election
judges, heads of departments, the police and fire personnel, seasonal
employees, which means those persons whose employment does not exceed 90 days
in any one calendar year, and private secretaries of elected officials, if
provided by the corporate authorities.
(1988 Code, § 2-5-6)
§ 32.071 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall submit to the President, annually, on or
before January 15 of each year, a report of its activities and submit a copy of
its rules or changes.
      (2)   The report may make suggestions which the Commission believes would
result in greater efficiency in the civil service functions of the village.
   (B)   The President shall transmit the report to the Board of Trustees and
may require a report from the Commission at any other time.
(1988 Code, § 2-5-7)
§ 32.072 FACILITIES FOR MEETINGS.
   Suitable rooms for meetings and examinations shall be provided to the
Commission by the President.
(1988 Code, § 2-5-8)
§ 32.073 EXPENDITURES.
   Provision shall be made in the annual appropriation ordinance to provide
adequate funds for the duties and functions of the Commission.
(1988 Code, § 2-5-9)
§ 32.074 ATTORNEY FOR THE COMMISSION.
   The Village Attorney shall be the legal representative of the Commission.
(1988 Code, § 2-5-10)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 32.085 DEFINITION.
   The word BOARD, when used in this subchapter, shall be construed to mean the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
(1988 Code, § 2-4-1)
§ 32.086 CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   (1)   A Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby authorized to be
established.
      (2)   Said Board shall consist of seven members appointed by the
President of the Board of Trustees by and with the consent of the Board of
Trustees.
      (3)   The members of the Board shall serve respectively for the following
terms (or until their respective successors are appointed and qualified): one
for one year; one for two years; one for three years; one for four years; and
one for five years; for the first five appointed and five years each for those
following the first five appointed.
      (4)   One of the members of the Board shall be designated by the
President of the Board of Trustees, with the consent of the village, as
Chairperson of said Board and shall hold his or her office as Chairperson of
the Board until his or her successor is appointed.
      (5)   The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
(1988 Code, § 2-4-2)
   (B)   Each member must be a resident of the village for at least one year
prior to the date of his or her appointment and must be a citizen of the United
States.
(Ord. 98-373, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 32.087 REMOVALS FROM OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The President of the Board of Trustees shall have the power to remove
any member of the Board for cause and after a public hearing.
   (B)   Vacancies upon said Board shall be filled for the unexpired term of
the member whose place has become vacant in the manner herein provided for the
appointment of such member.
(1988 Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 32.088 MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson and at such times as the Board may determine.
   (B)   All hearings conducted by the Board shall be open to the public.
   (C)   (1)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote
of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall also keep records of its hearings and other official
actions.
      (2)   Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of each case of a
requested variation and the reasons for making or denying such variation shall
be specified.
   (D)   Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and every
order, requirement, decision or determination of the Board shall be filed
immediately in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
   (E)   The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict with
this code or with the state statutes in such case made and provided.
   (F)   The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (G)   No hearing may be conducted without a quorum of the Board being
present, which shall consist of a majority of all the members.
   (H)   Any absent member who certifies that he or she has read the transcript
of the proceeding before the Board may vote upon any question before the Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-4-4)
BLOOD COMMISSION
§ 32.100 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created for the village the village’s Blood Commission,
composed of ten members, two of whom shall serve as Co-Chairpersons.
(1988 Code, § 2-10-1)
§ 32.101 APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The members and Co-Chairpersons of the village’s Blood Commission
shall be appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees to whom recommendation can be made by the Commission.
   (B)   The term of office of each member of the Commission shall be for one
year and until his or her successor shall be appointed and shall qualify.
(1988 Code, § 2-10-2)
§ 32.102 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Each member of the village’s Blood Commission shall have been a
resident of the village for at least one year prior to his or her appointment.
   (B)   A non-resident may serve as a member of the village’s Blood Commission
at the request of said Commission and shall be appointed by the President with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 2-10-3)
§ 32.103 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The village’s Blood Commission shall meet and elect a Secretary from
its members as soon as possible after its appointment, and the Commission shall
also establish the following committees:
      (1)   Public Relations;
      (2)   Businesses and Schools;
      (3)   Host Groups;
      (4)   Sites; and
      (5)   Telephone.
   (B)   The name of the Secretary and members of the committees, as provided
for in this section, shall be submitted to the President and Board of Trustees
for confirmation and appointment.
(1988 Code, § 2-10-4)
§ 32.104 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall hold meetings as may be necessary.
   (B)   Said meetings shall be held in the Village Hall or in some other
suitable place as may be designated by the President and Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 2-10-5)
§ 32.105 PURPOSE AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The purpose of the village’s Blood Commission shall be to implement
the cooperative blood replacement plan.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission shall help to educate the citizenry of the
village of the need to participate as a voluntary blood donor so that the needs
of the individual residents of the village as they relate to an adequate supply
of raw blood for such individuals may be met.
      (2)   The Commission will mobilize community resources and encourage the
participation of residents in the cooperative blood replacement plan.
      (3)   The Commission shall be responsible for conducting a community-wide
education effort to publicize the needs for volunteer donors; the date and
places that which donors may give blood; and the benefits of membership in the
cooperative blood replacement plan.
      (4)   The Commission shall also solicit other civic groups to obtain
their assistance in increasing the number of residents who would become
volunteer blood donors.
      (5)   The Commission shall continue to study the volunteer blood
situation regarding shortages of blood, the question of coverage for
participants in the program, identify and satisfy special areas of need such as
hemophiliacs and solicit from residents such information as may further help
implement the program.
(1988 Code, § 2-10-6)
§ 32.106 INCURRING FINANCIAL LIABILITY.
   Neither the Commission, nor any member thereof, shall incur any financial
liability in the name of the village without specific authority from the
Village President and Board of Trustees and the appropriations therefor by said
President and Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 2-10-7) (Ord. passed 7-31-1979)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 32.120 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby found and declared that:
   (A)   The village determines it essential to the continued growth and
stability of the community to provide for business development within the said
village; and that utilization of commercial real estate creates tax base
benefits for all the citizens of the village;
   (B)   Support of commercial and business expansion and development within
the village creates a favorable employment climate, providing opportunities to
the citizens of the village as well as for other south suburban residents;
   (C)   It is deemed a legitimate concern of local government to provide for
the highest and best use of the business and commercial property and that the
economic cultivation of the various types of properties, as determined by
zoning classification, will benefit the economy of the area as well as provide
for the general welfare of the citizens of the village; and
   (D)   Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of this state provides for the
exercise of home rule authority, and that creation of an economic development
authority is a function of government within the general powers of home rule,
and that no state preemption of this power has occurred through any legislative
act.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 32.121 CREATION OF AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created the village’s Economic Development Authority.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 32.122 AUTHORITY.
   Authority for the creation of this body is predicated upon the general home
rule powers articulated in the 1970 Constitution of the state along with the
express grants pursuant to the Business District Development and Redevelopment
Act, being 65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, and the
Large Business Development Act, being 30 ILCS 750/10-1 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 32.123 CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a political subdivision heretofore known as
the village’s Economic Development Authority.
   (B)   The Authority may sue and be sued in its corporate name or in the name
of the village, a municipal corporation, and the principal office of the
village’s Economic Development Authority shall be located within the village.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 32.124 BOARD ORGANIZATION.
   The village’s Economic Development Authority shall be governed by a Board of
Directors comprised of the President, Clerk and the six members of the Board of
Trustees of the village. The President of the Board of Trustees shall serve as
President of the village’s Economic Development authority. The Village Clerk
shall serve as the Secretary of said DEDA and shall keep the minutes of DEDA
and shall perform such other duties as may be required of said office by the
voting members of DEDA. All members shall have voting authority, except for the
President and the Clerk; however, in the case of a tie vote, the President may
then cast a vote.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 32.125 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Authority shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To approve all development and redevelopment plans and proposals with
which the Authority shall participate either directly or indirectly;
   (B)   To acquire, make, convey, lease or otherwise dispose of real and
personal property pursuant to economic development or redevelopment purposes;
   (C)   To exercise the use of eminent domain for the acquisition of real or
personal property pursuant to a plan of economic development or redevelopment;
   (D)   To apply for grants and loans from the United States of America, the
state, the county or any political subdivision of any of these, for economic
development or redevelopment purposes;
   (E)   To enter into any contracts with any public or private agency or
person;
   (F)   To employ personal and professional services pursuant to a plan of
economic development or redevelopment;
   (G)   To borrow and lend funds pursuant to a program for economic
development or redevelopment;
   (H)   To establish and promulgate rules and regulations governing the
implementation of any program designed to further the economic development or
redevelopment within the village;
   (I)   To expend such public funds as may be necessary to establish and
implement a plan of economic development and redevelopment; and
   (J)   To exercise such other powers as may be necessary or incidental to the
stated purposes.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 32.126 INITIAL FUND CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Village Economic Development Fund. Said Economic
Development Fund may be utilized in accordance with the powers and duties
enumerated in this subchapter. The Board of Directors may designate the
Treasurer for the village as the custodian of Authority funds.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 32.127 SURPLUS FUNDS.
   Any surplus funds remaining at the end of any fiscal year shall be applied
first to abate any tax levy accruing from the General Obligation Bond, Series
1988, Taxable, and, thereafter, to retire any other debt or obligation of the
Authority. Any assets or surplus funds remaining following the dissolution of
the village’s Economic Development Authority funds shall be turned over to the
village for deposit in the Corporate Fund.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 32.128 DOLTON DEVELOPMENT CENTER; MANAGEMENT.
   Responsibility for administration and management of the property commonly
known as the former Dolton Extrusion Co./Indalex Aluminum Solutions site at
14200 Cottage Grove, Dolton, IL, PIN: 29-02-101-009-0000, shall be transferred
to the village’s Economic Development Authority upon the adoption and passage
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 32.129 BUDGET; FISCAL YEAR; ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Authority shall adopt an annual budget and fix a fiscal year
consistent with the financial plans and objectives of the village and from time
to time, but in no event less than annually, to the extent funds are available
or have been expended during said fiscal year, and shall issue a report on the
administration of funds and programs of the Authority.
   (B)   The fiscal year of the village’s Economic Development Authority shall
be May 1 to April 30.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 32.130 NO TAXING AUTHORITY.
   The Authority shall not have the power to levy taxes whatsoever.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 32.131 BOARD MEETINGS AND PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Regular meetings of the Board of Directors of the village’s Economic
Development Authority shall be subject to the provisions of the state’s Open
Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, and be
held at the time and place fixed by the Board. A majority of the authorized
members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business
and the Authority may promulgate such rules and regulations as it deems
necessary and appropriate from time to time.
(Ord. 05-282, passed 3-7-2005)
SENIOR CITIZENS’ COMMISSION
§ 32.145 CREATED; APPOINTMENT; OFFICERS.
   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the “Village Senior
Citizens’ Commission”, hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”. The
Commission shall consist of nine members appointed by the Village President
with the advice and consent of the Village Board. The President shall designate
one of the members as Chairperson and the Commission shall select from its
members such other officers as it may deem necessary.
(1988 Code, § 2-12-1) (Ord. 89-128, passed 11-14-1989)
§ 32.146 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The members of the Commission shall be appointed upon the effective date
hereof. Three members shall be appointed for a term expiring 5-1-1990; three
members shall be appointed for a term expiring 5-1-1991; and three members
appointed for a term expiring 5-1-1992. Thereafter, all appointments shall be
for a period of three years.
(1988 Code, § 2-12-2) (Ord. 89-128, passed 11-14-1989)
§ 32.147 QUALIFICATIONS.
   All members of the Commission shall be persons 55 years of age or older and
shall be residents of the village.
(1988 Code, § 2-12-3)
§ 32.148 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In addition to authority otherwise provided by law, the Commission shall
have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To evaluate all programs, services and facilities for the aged within
the village in order to determine the extent to which present public or private
programs, services and facilities meet the needs of the aged;
   (B)   To coordinate and evaluate all programs, services and facilities for
the aging presently furnished by the village and make appropriate
recommendations regarding such programs, services and facilities to the
President and the Village Board;
   (C)   To assist community agencies on aging and other groups developing
local services for senior citizens;
   (D)   To promote community education regarding the problems of senior
citizens;
   (E)   To cooperate with agencies of the state and federal government in
studies and conferences designed to examine the needs of senior citizens;
   (F)   To promote throughout the village “Senior Citizens’ Day” which shall
be observed on the third Sunday of May of each year, as a day to honor and
remember senior citizens; and
   (G)   To establish and fund projects, as approved by the President and
Village Board, to fulfill the intent of this subchapter and the abovementioned
powers and duties.
(1988 Code, § 2-12-4)
§ 32.149 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties if
approved by the President and Village Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-12-5) (Ord. 85-117, passed 6-18-1985)
YOUTH RESOURCES COMMISSION
§ 32.160 ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Youth Resources Commission consisting of
seven members to be appointed by the Village President with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Village President shall serve the Commission as an ex-officio
member.
(1988 Code, § 2-13-1) (Ord. passed 11-20-1973; Ord. 12-783, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 32.161 TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The term of office of each member of the Commission shall be for one
year and until his or her successor shall be appointed and shall qualify.
   (B)   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, is authorized to fill any vacancy which may arise for its unexpired
term. Nothing herein contained shall preclude the reappointment of any member
or the Chairperson of the Commission.
(1988 Code, § 2-13-2) (Ord. passed 2-6-1973; Ord. passed 11-20-1973)
§ 32.162 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The persons appointed to the Commission shall be residents of the village,
or persons employed within the village, or persons whose business, occupation
or professional activity is carried on in a substantial degree within the
village. When such residence, employment or professional activity within the
village no longer exists, a member shall be deemed to have resigned from the
Commission.
(1988 Code, § 2-13-3) (Ord. passed 2-6-1973)
§ 32.163 ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Officers.
      (1)   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, shall designate one of its members to act as Chairperson.
      (2)   The Commission may elect from its members a Secretary and such
other officers as it may deem advisable.
   (B)   Conduct of business.
      (1)   The Commission may adopt rules of order and procedure for the
conduct of its business.
      (2)   Five members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.
   (C)   Special meetings. The Chairperson of the Commission, the Village
President or any three members of the Commission shall have the authority to
call special meetings of the Commission.
   (D)   Attendance at meetings. The Chairperson of the Commission, or some
person designated by him or her, shall maintain a record of attendance of each
member thereof.
(1988 Code, § 2-13-4) (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)
§ 32.164 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Commission is to conserve the human resources represented
by the village’s youth, and to protect and preserve the village’s community by
creating and providing programs designed to promote good adjustment,
responsibility, independence, citizenship and sportsmanship among the village’s
youth by utilizing available facilities, inaugurating programs and methods of
education and re-education and training directed toward the well-being of the
youth of the village.
(1988 Code, § 2-13-5)
§ 32.165 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall perform and exercise the following functions and
powers:
   (A)   To cooperate with the Village President, the Board of Trustees,
village departments, agencies and officials in carrying out a comprehensive
program of youth welfare involving all public and voluntary agencies of the
community in promoting the providing of services and facilities to the youth of
the village and their families;
   (B)   To recommend such legislative action to the Board of Trustees as it
may deem appropriate to effectuate the policies of the Commission. The
Commission, through its Chairperson or other designated member, shall report
annually in writing to the President and Board of Trustees, on or before June 1
of each year. Such report shall cover the activities of the Commission for the
preceding municipal year;
   (C)   To invite, enlist and encourage the cooperation of all public and
private voluntary agencies, religious and ethnic groups, community
organizations, labor and business organizations, fraternal and benevolent
societies, and other groups in the village, in carrying out their mission as
the same affects the youth of the village and their families; and
   (D)   Through a program of education, training, promotion and organization,
to encourage the formation of neighborhood groups and to assist these groups in
conducting activities aimed at developing and extending constructive programs
for youth, and by encouraging adequately-trained adult sponsors for the youths.
(1988 Code, § 2-13-6)
§ 32.166 FACILITIES AND SERVICES AVAILABLE.
   The facilities of the Municipal Building shall be available to the
Commission for all its meetings. The service of all village departments and
agencies shall be made available to the Commission on request. Any information
in the hands of any department or agency shall be offered to the Commission
upon request, except such information as by law cannot be divulged to the
public.
(1988 Code, § 2-13-7)
§ 32.167 INCURRING FINANCIAL LIABILITY.
   Neither the Commission, nor any member thereof, shall incur any financial
liability in the name of the village without specific authority from the
Village President and Board of Trustees and the appropriations therefor by said
President and Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 2-13-8) (Ord. passed 2-6-1973)
§ 32.168 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
(1988 Code, § 2-13-9) (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 32.180 ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established the village’s Historic Preservation
Commission consisting of seven voting members and three non-voting members. The
seven voting members, which includes the Chairperson, shall consist of four
residents of the village and up to three non-residents. All members of the
village’s Historic Preservation Commission, including the Chairperson, shall be
appointed by the Village President and with the advice and consent of the
Trustees.
   (B)   The seven voting members of the Commission shall be appointed on the
basis of demonstrated expertise, experience or interest in any of the areas of
anthropology, architecture, art, building construction, engineering, finance,
historical and architectural preservation, history, law, community development,
planning, real estate and related professions.
   (C)   The Mayor, with the approval of the Board of Trustees, may appoint
three people to serve as non-voting members of the Commission. Such members
shall be appointed on the same basis as voting members, but the non-voting
members need not be residents of the village. Non-voting members shall not hold
any officer positions. Each non-voting member shall serve a two-year term.
(1988 Code, § 2-14-1) (Ord. 25-005, passed 10-6-2025)
§ 32.181 TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Chairperson and each member shall be appointed for the length of
the term of the Mayor and each appointment shall expire on April 30 of the year
of the regular election for the office of Mayor. Any three consecutive absences
or any three absences in any municipal year by any member shall be considered
as the resignation of said member unless such absence was for good cause. GOOD
CAUSE shall mean only illness, death of a member of the family or regular
vacation of the member absenting himself or herself from the county.
   (B)   Upon the certification by the Chairperson that a vacancy exists by
reason of said absences, the Mayor shall appoint a successor to fill out the
unexpired term of said member.
(1988 Code, § 2-14-2) (Ord. passed 11-1-1983; Ord. 25-005, passed 10-6-2025)
§ 32.182 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Each voting and non-voting member of the village’s Historical Preservation
Commission shall be appointed on the basis of demonstrated expertise as
indicated in §
32.180(B).
(1988 Code, § 2-14-3) (Ord. 85-110, passed 6-4-1985; Ord. 25-005, passed 10-6-
2025)
§ 32.183 ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   Secretary. The Commission shall have a Secretary who shall be
appointed by the Mayor. The Secretary may be appointed from the membership of
the Commission.
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings. The Commission shall determine the time and place
of all of the official meetings of the Commission and give proper notice
thereof.
      (2)   Special meetings. The Chairperson of the Commission, the Mayor or
any three members of the Commission shall have the authority to call special
meetings of the Commission. Written notice of special meetings shall be given
to all members.
   (C)   Minutes and records. The Commission shall keep minutes and records of
all meetings and proceedings.
   (D)   Disclosure of interest. Any members of the Commission having a
pecuniary interest or personal interest in any matter coming before the
Commission shall disclose such interest to the other members and such interest
shall not be made a matter of record. Any member having such an interest shall
not participate in such matter as a member of the Commission, nor shall he or
she be counted in determining a quorum for consideration of such matter.
(1988 Code, § 2-14-4) (Ord. 25-005, passed 10-6-2025)
§ 32.184 DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have the following duties:
   (A)   To make recommendations to the Village Board for the designation of
landmarks, historic districts and urban conservation districts within the
corporate limits of the village in accordance with the procedures and standards
hereinafter set forth;
   (B)   To issue, modify, deny, suspend and revoke certificates of
appropriateness and economic hardship in accordance with the procedures and
criteria hereinafter set forth. The Commission may selectively delegate its
authority to grant a certificate of appropriateness for the more routine
requests, i.e., like-for-like alterations that are clearly appropriate and so
consistent with the purpose of this subchapter and adopted design guidelines
that further review is not required;
   (C)   To adopt rules and regulations, including such guidelines as may be
deemed necessary for review of applications for certificates of appropriateness
and economic hardship;
   (D)   To keep a register of all property and improvements which have been
designated for preservation. This register shall include the information
required of each designation, along with the appropriate maps;
   (E)   To provide technical and professional assistance to the owners of the
property and improvements which have been designated for preservation;
   (F)   To retain, upon approval of the Village Board, such specialists as may
be required from time to time;
   (G)   To engage in mutual cooperation with other village departments and
commissions on matters affecting the property and improvements which have been
designated for preservation;
   (H)   To make suggestions and recommendations related to the nomination of
designated property and improvements to state and national registers;
   (I)   To perform any and all functions which will foster the marking and
maintenance of designated property and improvements in accordance with the
respect to which they are entitled and as will aid the public in visiting such
property so acquired, all in accordance with the purposes, procedures and
standards set forth herein;
   (J)   To recommend the village’s acquisition by donation, purchase or
eminent domain of a fee or lesser interest in designated property and
improvements, including, but not limited to, easements, covenants and leasehold
interests, and to reconstruct, maintain, operate or transfer such property so
acquired, all in accordance with the purposes, procedures and standards set
forth herein;
   (K)   To induce by contract or other consideration the creation of covenants
or restrictions binding on land;
   (L)   To seek, on behalf of the village, funds from federal, state and
private sources for deposit in a separate account of the village, to be
referred to as the Preservation Fund, of which funds shall only be loaned or
expended in accordance with procedures established by the Village Board for
such purposes as set forth herein;
   (M)   To recommend the village’s acquisition by donation, purchase or
eminent domain of a fee or lesser interest in property which is within the
public view and adjacent to, immediately surrounding or in the nearby vicinity
of designated property and improvements for the alteration, clearance or
maintenance of which is important for the proper preservation and use of the
designated property and improvement, including property outside the corporate
limits;
   (N)   To recommend the issuance of bonds or liens by the corporate
authorities; and
   (O)   To cooperate with other governmental bodies or agencies and not-for-
profit organizations with purposes similar to those set forth in this
subchapter, including, but not limited to, the execution of contracts and the
conveyance of property whether by purchase or donation.
(1988 Code, § 2-14-5) (Ord. 25-005, passed 10-6-2025)
§ 32.185 INCURRING FINANCIAL LIABILITY.
   Neither the Commission, nor any member thereof shall incur any financial
liability in the name of the village without prior approval of the Mayor and
Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 2-14-6) (Ord. 25-005, passed 10-6-2025)
§ 32.186 COMPENSATION.
   Each member shall serve without compensation.
(1988 Code, § 2-14-7) (Ord. passed 11-1-1983)
HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION
§ 32.200 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the “Village Human
Relations Commission”, hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”. The
Commission shall consist of nine members appointed by the President with the
advice and consent of the Village Board, one of which shall be designated by
the Mayor as Chairperson. Vacancies in the Commission shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointments: at least two-thirds of the members of
the Commission shall be residents of the village.
   (B)   The initial members of the Commission shall be appointed as soon as
possible after the effective date hereof. These appointments shall be for a
term ending 5-1-1987 and thereafter for a term of one year. All appointments
shall terminate on May 1 after the original term of appointment.
(1988 Code, § 2-15-1) (Ord. 97-332, passed 7-7-1997)
§ 32.201 OFFICERS.
   The Commission shall select from its membership such other officers,
excluding the Chairperson, as it may deem necessary. The Commission shall not
employ any employees, assistants, research assistants nor enter into any
contracts unless approved by the President and the village’s Board of Trustees.
Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties if
approved by the Mayor and Village Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-15-2)
§ 32.202 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have the responsibility to administer this subchapter
and may exercise powers including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Receive and investigate complaints charging unlawful and/or
discriminatory acts and unfair housing practices;
   (B)   Initiate complaints charging unlawful discriminatory acts and unfair
housing practices;
   (C)   Attempt to resolve any such complaints through conciliation;
   (D)   Recommend educational and other programs designed to promote the
purposes of this subchapter;
   (E)   Gather and provide for the exchange of information related to the
provisions of this subchapter among real estate agents, lending institutions,
developers, employers, municipal officials, community relations, and other
persons with an interest in effective enforcement of this subchapter;
   (F)   Conduct discussions in churches, residences and other public locations
for the purpose of listening to concerns of residents, communicating accurately
to residents the policies and programs of the village that are responsive to
their concerns;
   (G)   Facilitate responses of appropriate village departments to concerns of
residents; and
   (H)   Such duties as may be delegated by the President or Board of Trustees
to accomplish the objectives of the Commission.
(1988 Code, § 2-15-3)
§ 32.203 FUNDING.
   (A)   In the performance of its duties, the Commission may accept grants of
funds from the Federal or State Government, or any agency thereof, or from
foundations or other public or private organizations.
   (B)   Any funds received shall be audited annually by the Village Treasurer
and the Village Auditor.
(1988 Code, § 2-15-4) (Ord. 86-140, passed 11-5-1986)
KEY OUTREACH COMMISSION
§ 32.215 CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the “Village Key
Outreach Commission”, hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of 11 members appointed by the President
with the advice and consent of the Village Board, one of which shall be
designated by the President as Chairperson.
   (C)   The Commission shall select from its members such other officers as it
may deem necessary.
(Ord. 97-346A, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 32.216 STRUCTURE AND COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt bylaws within 90 days after the appointment
of sufficient members to constitute a quorum. Upon adoption, the bylaws shall
be filed with the Village Clerk and a copy shall be tendered to the President
and Board of Trustees. The Commission shall meet not less than every 45 days
and shall submit annual reports to the Board of Trustees. The Commission shall
establish standing committees which shall consist of at least three Commission
members. There shall be standing committees for each of the areas of services
provided by the Commission, as well as additional special committees to
consider and report on matters referred to the special committee. The special
committees shall terminate upon the completion of the business referred to
them. The Chairperson shall be an ex-officio member of all committee, but shall
not be counted in determining the quorum at any committee meeting and shall not
be permitted to vote.
   (B)   No report from any standing or special committee shall be presented
for consideration at a Commission meeting unless the same has been sent to all
members 48 hours prior to the meeting date; provided, however, the Chairperson
may authorize the presentation of emergency matters without prior submission to
members. The Chairperson shall refer the matters approved by the committees to
the Board of Commissioners for consideration.
(Ord. 97-346A, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 32.217 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members of the Commission shall be appointed upon the effective
date hereof. Four members shall be appointed for a four-year term; four members
shall be appointed for a three year term; and three members shall be appointed
for a two-year term.
   (B)   Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a period three years.
(Ord. 97-346A, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 32.218 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The persons appointed to the Commission shall be residents of the
village, or persons whose occupation or professional activity is carried on in
a substantial degree within the village.
   (B)   The village’s Police Department shall fingerprint and perform
background checks for all members of the Commission within 30 days of the
appointments. No member shall have been convicted of a felony and said
conviction shall be grounds for removal from the Commission.
(Ord. 97-346A, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 32.219 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It shall be the mission of the Commission to mobilize resources that
encourage the delivery of services which enhance and promote positive character
traits in the village’s youth. This will be achieved by developing,
implementing and monitoring activities and programs in coordination with
community and agencies.
   (B)   The Commission shall provide supportive services to the village’s
youth that have been identified and referred through various agencies and
entities, including, but not limited to, the village’s Police Department
through station adjustments, the county’s Court System or educational
institutions. All participation must be voluntary and the youth must have the
written consent of a parent or guardian.
   The types of services provided or coordinated on behalf of the youth or
juveniles shall include:
      (1)   The identification of the youths in need of services;
      (2)   Assessment of the specific areas of need for each individual youth;
      (3)   Provision of services directly or through referral that are
specifically designed to meet the youth’s individual needs;
      (4)   Identification of alternatives to the current life style of the
youth which may be contributing to the problematic behavior, including
employment referrals; and
      (5)   Such other appropriate relief as deemed appropriate.
(Ord. 97-346A, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 32.220 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   In addition to authority otherwise provided by law, the Commission shall
have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To evaluate programs, services and facilities for youth within the
village to determine the extent to which present public or private programs,
services and facilities meet the need of the youth;
   (B)   To assist community agencies on youth and other groups developing
local services for youth;
   (C)   To cooperate with agencies of the state and federal government in
studies and conferences designed to examine needs of youth involved in criminal
and quasi-criminal activity; and
   (D)   To establish and fund projects as approved by the President and
Village Board, to fulfill the intent of this subchapter and the above-mentioned
powers and duties.
(Ord. 97-346A, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 32.221 FACILITIES AVAILABLE.
   The facilities of the Village Municipal Building, or other village-owned
facilities, upon the advice and consent of the President, shall be available to
the Commission for all its meetings.
(Ord. 97-346A, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 32.222 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   The services of village’s Police Department shall be made available to
the Commission on request.
   (B)   The village’s Police Department shall assist and provide relevant
information to the Commission, upon request, and to the extent required, the
Commission members shall be bound by the same code of confidentiality as the
members of the village’s Police Department.
   (C)   No confidential information regarding any youth shall be divulged, to
the extent required by law.
(Ord. 97-346A, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 32.223 INCURRING FINANCIAL LIABILITY.
   Neither the Commission, nor any member thereof, shall incur any financial
liability in the name of the village without specific authority from the
Village President and Board of Trustees and the appropriations therefor by said
President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 97-346A, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 32.224 COMPENSATION.
   The members shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 97-346A, passed 10-6-1997)
DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
§ 32.235 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Department of Administrative Services, which
shall consist of a Director and such number of employees as may from time to
time be determined by the President and the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Department of Administrative Services shall be subject to the
direction and authority of the Chief of Staff.
(Ord. 02-186, passed 7-23-2002)
§ 32.236 OATH.
   The Director of the Department of Administrative Services shall take the
customary oath prescribed by statute before entering the duties of the office.
The subscribed oath shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 02-186, passed 7-23-2002)
§ 32.237 FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   The functions, duties and responsibilities of the Department of
Administrative Services shall be as follows:
   (A)   To administer and enforce all of the responsibilities, power and
duties delegated to it by village ordinance, pursuant to the village’s
municipal code;
   (B)   To exercise general supervision over the water transfer stamp tax
process as set forth in §§
151.235 through
151.244 of this code of ordinances, as amended.
      (1)   The water transfer stamp shall be issued by the Department of
Administrative Services after payment of the tax to the Village Collector.
      (2)   The Department of Administrative Services shall issue an adhesive
stamp or stamps, in a form prescribed by the village and such stamp(s) shall be
affixed to the face of the deed or instrument of conveyance;
   (C)   To exercise general supervision over the business and license
applications. All applications for licenses and permits, and the regulations
relating thereto as provided in, shall be submitted to the Department of
Administrative Services, in writing on forms to be prescribed and furnished by
the Village Board and the village as provided in Ch. 110 of this code of
ordinances, as amended. The Department of Administrative Services shall keep a
record of all applications;
   (D)   To exercise general supervision over the issuance of §
110.08 of this code of ordinances, as amended.
      (1)   Duplicate licenses. The Department of Administrative Services, upon
satisfactory evidence of such loss or destruction being filed with the
Department of Administrative Services and the payment to the village of $5 for
such duplicate, the Department of Administrative Services shall issue a
duplicate thereof.
      (2)   Vehicle tags. The Department of Administrative Services shall
furnish each licensee with a tag or sticker for each vehicle covered by the
license.
   (E)   To exercise general supervision over the Approval and Issuance of
License process as provided in §
110.09 of this code of ordinances, as amended. Licenses shall be granted and
signed by the Village President and issued by the Department of Administrative
Services;
   (F)   To exercise general supervision over the issuance of notices of
license terminations, as provided in § 
110.10 of this code of ordinances, as amended;
   (G)   To exercise general supervision over the transfer of license or
permit, change of location, process as provided in §
110.11 of this code of ordinances, as amended;
   (H)   To exercise general supervision over special assessments, as provided
in and the preparation and issuance of special assessments bills, which bills
shall be prepared with interest computed thereon as may be required. The
Department of Administrative Services shall prepare and safely keep all of the
books and records relating to the special assessments and issuance of bills
therefor;
   (I)   To exercise general supervision over water bills, accounts and
samples, as provided in the village’s municipal code, as amended. The
Department of Administrative Services shall be responsible for the billing of
water accounts. The Department of Administrative Services shall see that all
water meters are read for billing purposes; that such meters are kept in a good
state of repair; and that samples of the water supply be taken monthly and
analyzed to ensure the safety of the water supply;
   (J)   To exercise general supervision over the issuance of fishing, hunting
and trapping licenses as provided in the village. The Department of
Administrative Services shall issue said applications and licenses for fishing,
hunting and trapping; and
   (K)   To exercise general supervision over the zoning regulations of the
village, as provided in this code of ordinances. The Director of the Department
of Administrative Services shall be the Zoning Administrative Officer and as
such shall be charged with the enforcement of the zoning regulations of the
village.
(Ord. 02-186, passed 7-23-2002)
JUANITA NEWELL COOK COMMISSION
§ 32.250 CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Juanita Newell
Cook Rewarding Dolton’s Students Educational Scholarship Commission,
hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of three members appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Village Board, one of which shall
be designated by the President as Chairperson.
   (C)   The Commission shall select from its members a Secretary, as it may
deem necessary.
(Ord. 07-422, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 32.251 STRUCTURE AND COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt bylaws within 60 days after the appointment
and shall provide that two members shall constitute a quorum. Upon adoption,
the bylaws shall be filed with the Village Clerk and a copy shall be tendered
to the President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Commission shall establish a meeting calendar and shall submit
annual reports to the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 07-422, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 32.252 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members of the Commission shall be appointed upon the effective
date hereof. One member shall be appointed for a three-year term; one member
shall be appointed for a two-year term; and one member shall be appointed for a
one-year term.
   (B)   Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a period of three years.
(Ord. 07-422, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 32.253 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The persons appointed to the Commission shall be residents of the
village or persons whose occupation or professional activity is carried on in a
substantial degree within the village.
   (B)   No member shall have been convicted of a felony and said conviction
shall be grounds for removal from the Commission.
(Ord. 07-422, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 32.254 PURPOSE.
   It shall be the mission of the Commission to establish rules, regulations
and procedures:
   (A)   For the oversight and administration of the scholarship program;
   (B)   For developing and implementing the student selection process for
scholarship award; and
   (C)   For monitoring and reporting activities.
(Ord. 07-422, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 32.255 FACILITIES AVAILABLE.
   The facilities of the Village Municipal Building, or other village-owned
facilities, upon the advice and consent of the President, shall be available to
the Commission for all its meetings.
(Ord. 07-422, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 32.256 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The services of the village’s Police Department shall be made available to
the Commission on request. The village’s Police Department shall assist and
provide relevant information to the Commission, upon request, and to the extent
required, the Commission members shall be bound by the same code of
confidentiality as the members of the village’s Police Department. No
confidential information regarding any student applicant shall be divulged, to
the extent required by law.
(Ord. 07-422, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 32.257 INCURRING FINANCIAL LIABILITY.
   Neither the Commission, nor any member thereof, shall incur any financial
liability in the name of the village without specific authority from the
Village President and Board of Trustees and the appropriations therefore by
said President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 07-422, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 32.258 COMPENSATION.
   The members shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 07-422, passed 11-5-2007)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Civil Emergencies
   
33.001   Definitions
   
33.002   Declaration of emergency; procedures
   
33.003   Obedience to orders
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA)
   
33.015   Establishment
   
33.016   Director
   
33.017   Functions
   
33.018   Service as Mobile Support Team
   
33.019   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
33.020   Emergency action
   
33.021   Compensation
   
33.022   Reimbursement by state
   
33.023   Purchases and expenditures
   
33.024   Oath
   
33.025   Office
   
33.026   Appropriation; levy of taxes
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
   
33.040   Created; membership
   
33.041   Appointment; term of office
   
33.042   Vacancies; removals from office
   
33.043   Qualifications
   
33.044   Oath
   
33.045   Bond and compensation
   
33.046   Secretary of the Board
   
33.047   Duties
   
33.048   Facilities for meetings
   
33.049   Expenditures
   
33.050   Attorney for the Board
   
33.051   Rules and regulations
   
33.052   Alternate procedure for hiring fully-qualified officers
Police Pension Fund Board of Trustees
   
33.065   Board and Fund established
   
33.066   Appointed and elected members; term of office
   
33.067   Organization
   
33.068   Meetings
   
33.069   Powers and duties
   
33.070   Compensation
   
33.071   Funding
Firefighters’ Pension Fund Board of Trustees
   
33.085   Board established; membership
   
33.086   Terms and vacancies of elected members
   
33.087   Treasurer of the Board
   
33.088   Duties
   
33.089   Compensation
   
33.090   Funds
Police Department
   
33.105   Department created; members
   
33.106   Chief of Police
   
33.107   Organization and operation of Department
   
33.108   Sergeant
   
33.109   Police Captain
   
33.110   Appointments, promotions and discharges of members
   
33.111   Oath
   
33.112   Powers and duties of Department
   
33.113   Accident reports
   
33.114   Badge of police officers
   
33.115   Duty to aid police
   
33.116   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
33.117   Press cards
   
33.118   Fees
Part-Time Police
   
33.130   Definitions
   
33.131   Qualifications
   
33.132   Hiring standards
   
33.133   Appointment
   
33.134   Residency requirements
   
33.135   Criminal record
   
33.136   Part-time police training course
   
33.137   Hours worked
   
33.138   Powers and duties
   
33.139   Identification
   
33.140   Firearms
   
33.141   Compensation
   
33.142   Discipline
Fire Department
   
33.155   Department established
   
33.156   Appointment of certain officers
   
33.157   Fire Chief; powers and duties
   
33.158   Deputy Fire Chief
   
33.159   Assistant Fire Chief
   
33.160   Appointments, promotions, removals and suspensions
   
33.161   Department duties
   
33.162   Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
33.163   Arson investigators
   
33.164   Rescue squad
   
33.165   Investigation of fires
   
33.166   Duties of bystanders
   
33.167   Destruction of buildings to check fires
   
33.168   Restricted and prohibited acts
   
33.169   Building inspections
   
33.170   Fees
Foreign Fire Insurance Board
   
33.185   Creation
   
33.186   Definitions
   
33.187   Tax imposed
   
33.188   Annual report of premiums
   
33.189   Unlawful to transact business if report not filed and tax not paid
   
33.190   Penalty for failure to file report and pay tax
   
33.191   Foreign Fire Insurance Fund
   
33.192   Limitation on debt and expenditures
   
33.193   Fund records; meeting minutes
   
33.194   Annual report
   
33.195   Compatibility
   
33.196   Election procedure
   
33.197   Election of officers
   
33.198   Officers; quorum; special meetings
   
33.199   Duties and powers
   
33.200   Annual audit
 
   
33.999   Penalty
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
§ 33.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force, accompanied by immediate power to
execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law.
      (2)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village,
excepting persons officially designated to duty with reference to said civil
emergency.
(1988 Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 33.002 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Declaration of emergency; expiration. When, in the judgment of the
Village President, a civil emergency as defined herein is deemed to exist, he
or she shall forthwith proclaim in writing under oath the existence of same and
shall set forth in the proclamation the facts upon which the proclamation is
based and shall describe the nature of the emergency. Such statement shall be
filed with the Village Clerk as soon as practicable. Such state of emergency
shall expire not later than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the
corporate authorities after the state of emergency is declared.
   (B)   General curfew. After proclamation of a civil emergency by the
President, he or she may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical
areas of the village or to the village as a whole as he or she deems advisable,
and applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or she deems
necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
   (C)   Movement restricted. After proclamation of a civil emergency by the
President, he or she may restrict or prohibit movement into, out of or within
the affected area or areas.
   (D)   Orders permitted. After proclamation of a civil emergency, the Village
President may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or
all of the following orders:
      (1)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
      (2)   Order the closing of all taverns;
      (3)   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein
the consumption of intoxicating liquor and/or beer is permitted;
      (4)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      (5)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments,
the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
      (6)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
      (7)   Order the closing of any or all establishments or portions thereof,
the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution, dispensing or giving
away of firearms and/or ammunition;
      (8)   Prohibit or limit the assemblage of persons; and
      (9)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
(1988 Code, § 5-3-2) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.003 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS.
   No person shall fail to obey the lawful orders of any police officer or
other authorized person, and no person shall in any way intentionally interfere
with any person in the protection or preservation of life or property during
the existence of a state of emergency as proclaimed, as provided in §
33.002(A) of this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 5-3-3) Penalty, see §
33.999
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA)
§ 33.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the village’s ESDA to prevent, minimize,
repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy
attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from natural or human-made
disaster, in accordance with the state’s Emergency Services and Disaster Act of
1975.
   (B)   This ESDA shall consist of the Director and such additional members as
may be selected by the Director.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-1)
§ 33.016 DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director of the village’s ESDA shall be appointed by the Village
President and shall serve until removed by same.
   (B)   The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Village President as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Director, the Village President, or any person designated by him or her,
shall be and act as Director until a new appointment is made as provided in
this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-2)
§ 33.017 FUNCTIONS.
   The village’s ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the village as
shall be prescribed in and by the state’s ESDA Plan and Program prepared by the
Governor, and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor and, in addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits of the village as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement
with any other political subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality
entered into as provided by the state’s ESDA Act of 1975.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-3)
§ 33.018 SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the village’s ESDA may be designated as members
of a mobile support team created by the Director of the state’s ESDA as
provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Director of the village’s ESDA.
   (C)   (1)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the state’s Director,
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to such employment or office.
      (2)   Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the
village, while so serving, shall receive from the state reasonable compensation
as provided by law.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-4)
§ 33.019 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Director of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
municipal corporations or political subdivisions of the state, but no such
agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by the President and
Board of Trustees and by the state’s Director of ESDA.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-5)
§ 33.020 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor declares that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the village’s ESDA
to cooperate fully with the state’s ESDA and with the Governor in the exercise
of emergency powers as provided by law.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-6)
§ 33.021 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the state’s Director of ESDA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such village employees or officers shall receive for
such training time such compensation as may be established by the Board of
Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-7)
§ 33.022 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The Village Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the state’s Director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the Governor or state’s Director
of ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state
incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-8)
§ 33.023 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, on recommendation of the village’s Director
of ESDA, authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the village in
a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of
any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and
safety, protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the
case of such disaster or from human-made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy-caused or other disaster, the village’s Director
of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the village, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the state’s ESDA Act of 1975; provided that, if the Board of
Trustees meets at such time, he or she shall act subject to the directions and
restrictions imposed by that body and subject to the directions and
restrictions imposed by the Village President.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-9)
§ 33.024 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the village’s ESDA shall,
before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the following oath, which
shall be filed with the Director:
“I,                                                  , do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I will support and defend and bear true allegiance to the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois
and the territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and
private, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation
freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will
well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I
do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been,
a member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am affiliated with the Dolton ESDA Organization, I
will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
State by force or violence”.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-10)
§ 33.025 OFFICE.
   The Village President is authorized to designate space in the Village Hall
or elsewhere as may be provided for by the Board of Trustees for the village’s
ESDA as its office.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-11)
§ 33.026 APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Village Board may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner
provided by law, and may levy, in addition for ESDA purposes only, a tax not to
exceed $0.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition
to all other taxes, as provided by the state’s ESDA Act of 1975; however, that
amount collectible under such levy, shall not exceed $0.25 per capita.
(1988 Code, § 2-6-12)
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 33.040 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners which shall
consist of seven members. The members of the Board shall be considered officers
of the village.
(1988 Code, § 2-7-1)
§ 33.041 APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board of Fire and Police Commission shall consist of five members
who shall be residents of the village.
   (B)   The members shall be appointed by the Village President to serve a
term of three years, or until a successor is appointed, and said appointments
are subject to the approval of the village’s Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 2-7-2) (Ord. 85-139, passed 12-12-1985; Ord. 94-239, passed 3-1-
1994; Ord. 97-341, passed 9-15-1997; Ord. 99-107, passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 11-
519, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 33.042 VACANCIES; REMOVALS FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy occurs by reason of death or resignation of a
member, the appointment shall be for the balance of the unexpired term.
   (B)   (1)   No member during his or her term may be removed except for
cause, upon written charges, and after an opportunity to be heard within 30
days after receipt of the written charges, before a regular meeting of the
Board of Trustees.
      (2)   A majority vote of the elected members of the Board of Trustees
shall be required to remove such member from office.
(1988 Code, § 2-7-3)
§ 33.043 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Each member must be a resident of the village for at least one year prior to
the date of his or her appointment and a citizen of the United States. At the
time of his or her appointment, he or she may not hold any office under the
village and the acceptance of such an office during his or her term of
appointment shall constitute a resignation as a member of the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners. Such member may not be related either by blood or
marriage up to the degree of first cousin to any elected officer of the
village. Before the President shall appoint any member, such person must file
an affidavit as to his or her local political party affiliation, or if such
person does not belong to a local political party, then as to his or her state
or national political party affiliations. The President shall not appoint more
than four members of the same political party.
(1988 Code, § 2-7-4) (Ord. 85-139, passed 12-12-1985; Ord. 97-341, passed 9-15-
1997)
§ 33.044 OATH.
   (A)   Each member, before entering upon his or her duties, shall take and
subscribe to the customary oath of office.
   (B)   This oath, so subscribed shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 2-7-5)
§ 33.045 BOND AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Bond.
      (1)   Each member, before entering upon his or her duties, shall execute
a bond to the village in the penal sum of $1,000 conditioned upon the faithful
performance of his or her duties.
      (2)   Said bond shall be for the term of office of said member and shall
be filed with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Compensation. Each member shall serve without compensation.
(1988 Code, § 2-7-6)
§ 33.046 SECRETARY OF THE BOARD.
   The Board shall designate one of its own members to act as Secretary who
shall have the following duties:
   (A)   To keep the minutes of the Board’s proceeding;
   (B)   To be the custodian of all records pertaining to the business of the
Board;
   (C)   To keep a record of all examinations held; and
   (D)   To perform all other duties the Board shall prescribe.
(1988 Code, § 2-7-7)
§ 33.047 DUTIES.
   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall have the following duties:
   (A)   To appoint all full-time members and officers of the regular Police
Department; except that, the Police Chief, the Assistant Police Chief, the
Chief of Police Clerk and all other exempt positions shall be appointed by the
Village President with the consent of the Board of Trustees. The Police Chief
shall appoint, with the advice and consent of the President of the Board of
Trustees, the Assistant Police Chief; and the Fire Chief shall appoint, with
the advice and consent of the President of the Board of Trustees, the Assistant
Fire Chief;
   (B)   To appoint all full-time members of the Fire Department; except that,
the Fire Chief and Deputy Fire Chief shall be appointed by the President with
the consent of the Trustees;
   (C)   (1)   To make and make changes in such rules as will carry out the
provisions of this subchapter and for procedures to be followed relative to
appointments or removals of members and officers from the Police Department or
Fire Department. Rules shall apply only to the following:
         (a)   Conduct of examinations for original appointments;
         (b)   Conduct of examinations for promotions; and
         (c)   Conduct of hearings on charges brought against a member of the
Police Department or Fire Department. No rules may be made relative to
governing the operation of the Fire Department or Police Department, such
authority being reserved to the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   All such rules and changes shall be printed immediately and be
available for distribution. Notice must be published in the local newspaper as
follows:
         (a)   Of the place where the rules may be obtained; and
         (b)   Of the date not less than ten days subsequent to the time of
publication when the rules or changes in the rules shall become effective.
      (3)   These rules shall be applicable only to full-time firefighter and
full-time police officers and not to any other personnel of any kind or
description.
   (D)   To submit to the President, annually, between May 1 and June 1, a
report of its activities and submit a copy of its rules or changes. The report
may make suggestions which the Board believes would result in greater
efficiency in the Fire Department or in the Police Department. The Board shall
also submit its budget request for the ensuing year in said report. The
President shall transmit the report to the Board of Trustees; and
   (E)   (1)   In addition to other disciplinary actions authorized by the
state, the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners are hereby authorized to
demote any officer one grade for cause shown, upon written charges, and after
an opportunity to be heard in his or her own defense. The Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing of the charges,
to be commenced within 30 days of the filing thereof, and may be continued from
time to time. If the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners determine that the
charges are sustained, the officer shall be demoted to the next lower rank.
      (2)   In the conduct of this hearing, each member of the Board shall have
power to administer oaths and affirmations, and the Board shall have power to
secure by its subpoena both the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of books and papers relevant to the hearing.
(1988 Code, § 2-7-8) (Ord. 85-113, passed 6-11-1985; Ord. 85-135, passed 10-15-
1985; Ord. 97-319, passed 4-15-1997)
§ 33.048 FACILITIES FOR MEETINGS.
   Suitable rooms for meetings and examinations shall be provided to the Board
by the Village Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 2-7-9)
§ 33.049 EXPENDITURES.
   Provision shall be made in the annual appropriation ordinance to provide
adequate funds for the duties and functions of the Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-7-10)
§ 33.050 ATTORNEY FOR THE BOARD.
   The Village Attorney shall be the legal representative of the Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-7-11)
§ 33.051 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 12-572, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 33.052 ALTERNATE PROCEDURE FOR HIRING FULLY-QUALIFIED OFFICERS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, QUALIFIED POLICE OFFICER shall mean an
individual possessing all certifications required by the state’s Department of
Law Enforcement and other applicable regulations in order to serve as a full-
or part-time police officer, and who is presently or who has previously been
employed as a full- or part-time police officer in a state unit of local
government.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the Police Chief certifies in writing to the Mayor and
Board of Trustees and Village Manager that there is a present need to hire one
or more qualified police officers to fill a vacancy, the Village Mayor is
authorized to hire a fully qualified officer for such vacancy based on the
recommendation of the Chief.
      (2)   The Mayor shall advise the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
when this process is invoked and shall keep the Commission apprised of
interviewing and hiring progress.
   (C)   The hiring established pursuant to this section shall take precedence
over any names appearing on an eligibility list developed by the Board of Fire
and Police Commissioners.
   (D)   In order to be eligible for hiring a qualified officer, an applicant
must meet all other eligibility criteria established by the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners or this code for newly-hired employees.
   (E)   Nothing in this section authorizes the hiring of any employees over
and above the number of employees authorized and budgeted by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees from time to time.
   (F)   Police officers hired under this section shall be placed at entry
level on the salary scale pursuant to the applicable collective bargaining
agreement.
(Ord. 15-015, passed 5-4-2015; Ord. 15-049, passed 11-2-2015)
POLICE PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 33.065 BOARD AND FUND ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a Police Pension Fund and a Board of Trustees thereof
in and for the village. The Board shall be known as the “Board of Trustees of
the Police Pension Fund of the Village of Dolton”.
(1988 Code, § 2-8-1)
§ 33.066 APPOINTED AND ELECTED MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund shall consist of five
members: two shall be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of
the Board of Trustees; two shall be elected from the regular police force; and
one member shall be elected by and from the beneficiaries of the Pension Fund.
   (B)   (1)   The election shall be conducted by ballot at elections to be
held on the third Monday in April of the applicable years under the Australian
ballot system.
      (2)   The Board of the Police Pension Fund shall prescribe regulations
for the conduct of the election.
      (3)   Only the active police officers shall vote for the members chosen
from the active police officers and only the beneficiaries shall be entitled to
vote for the member from among the beneficiaries of the Fund.
   (C)   Each elected or appointed member shall hold his or her term for a
period of two years.
(1988 Code, § 2-8-2)
§ 33.067 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   At the regular July meeting, the Board shall select from its members a
President, Vice- President, Secretary and Assistant Secretary to serve for one
year and until their successors are elected and qualified.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer shall be ex-officio Treasurer of the Board of
Trustees of the Police Pension Fund. The bond he or she executed as Village
Treasurer shall also be conditioned for the faithful performance of his or her
duty as Treasurer of the Police Officers’ Pension Fund. On the second Tuesday
in May, he or she shall make a sworn statement to the Board of Trustees of the
Police Pension Fund and to the Village President and Board of Trustees of all
moneys received and paid out on account of the Pension Fund during the
municipal year and of the amount of such funds then on hand and owing to the
Pension Fund.
(1988 Code, § 2-8-3)
§ 33.068 MEETINGS.
   The Board shall hold regular meetings on the second Tuesday of July,
October, January and April and shall hold such additional meetings as may be
called by the President of the Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund.
(1988 Code, § 2-8-4)
§ 33.069 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Pension Board to
manage, invest and control the Police Pension Fund and all moneys pertaining
thereto in the manner provided by 40 ILCS 5/3-132 to 5/3-140 as now or
hereafter amended.
   (B)   Their powers and duties shall include:
      (1)   To exclusively control and manage the Pension Fund and all money
donated, paid or assessed for the relief or pensioning of disabled, super-
annuitied and retired members of the Police Department, their widows, minor
children and dependent parents. All such moneys shall be placed by the
Treasurer to the credit of the Fund, subject to the order of the Board;
      (2)   To order and direct the payment of pensions and other benefits
provided by statute and to issue certificates signed by its President and
Secretary to the persons entitled thereto of the amount ordered paid to such
persons from the Fund. The certificates shall state the purpose of the payment.
No order or resolution for the payment of money shall be valid unless approved
by a majority of the members of the Board, and any order for such payment shall
be signed by the President and Secretary of the Board;
      (3)   (a)   To submit to the Village President and Village Board of
Trustees each May a report setting forth:
            1.   A list of persons entitled to payments from the Fund stating
the amount and purpose of the payment; and
            2.   Items of income accrued to the Fund during the preceding
fiscal year.
         (b)   The report shall be under oath and signed by the President and
Secretary of the Board.
      (4)   To report to the Village President and Board of Trustees at least
annually, and its annual report shall be given in the month of May stating:
         (a)   The assets in its custody;
         (b)   The estimated receipts during the next succeeding calendar year
from deductions from the salaries of police officers and from all other
sources; and
         (c)   The estimated amount required during said calendar year to:
            1.   Pay all pensions and other obligations provided in the Police
Pension Fund Act of the Illinois Municipal Code; and
            2.   Maintain the reserve Fund provided in 40 ILCS 5/3-127 as now
or hereafter amended.
      (5)   To invest funds in the name of the Board of the Police Pension Fund
in interest bearing bonds or in tax anticipation warrants of the United States,
or of Illinois, or of any county, township or municipal corporation of
Illinois, and in insured shares of state-chartered building and loan
associations and insured shares of federal chartered saving and loan
associations. All securities shall be deposited with the Treasurer;
      (6)   To issue subpoenas for witnesses to attend and testify before it
and to have authority to administer oaths;
      (7)   To appoint a clerk and define the duties of said clerk. No person
drawing a police pension shall be employed as clerk by the Board, nor shall any
person related by blood or marriage to any pensioner or police officer be
employed as a clerk;
      (8)   To provide for the payment from the Fund of all necessary expenses,
including clerk hire, printing and witness fees;
      (9)   To keep a public record of all its proceedings; and
      (10)   To make rules and regulations concerning the Pension Fund which
shall be published by the Board and copies transmitted to all pensioners and
contributors.
(1988 Code, § 2-8-5)
§ 33.070 COMPENSATION.
   No member of the Board shall receive any compensation for services performed
as a member of the Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-8-6)
§ 33.071 FUNDING.
   (A)   There shall be deposited in the Pension Fund the sums required to
establish and maintain a reserve to ensure the payment of all obligations. The
reserve shall be not less than $10,000 for each police officer and each
beneficiary; provided that, the reserve to be accumulated shall not exceed the
estimated total actuarial requirements of the Fund.
   (B)   All children of a police officer shall be considered as a single
beneficiary for purposes of reserve requirements.
(1988 Code, § 2-8-7)
FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 33.085 BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   (1)   There is established a Board of Trustees of the Firefighters’
Pension Fund. Beginning on the third Monday in April 2006, the Firefighters’
Pension Fund Board of Trustees shall consist of five members: two members of
the Board shall be elected from active participants; one member of the Board
shall be elected from retired members; and two members of the Board shall be
appointed by the Mayor. The members of the Board selected from the active and
retired firefighters shall be elected by ballot at an election to be held on
the third Monday in April of the applicable years under the Australian ballot
system.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees of the Firefighters’ Pension Fund shall
prescribe regulations for the conduct of the election. The membership shall
elect from its members a Board President and Secretary.
   (B)   (1)   Only the active participants of the Firefighters’ Pension Fund
shall vote for the members chosen from the active participants of the Pension
Fund and only the persons retired under the Firefighters’ Pension Fund Act
shall be entitled to choose the retired pension fund participant.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a firefighter receiving a disability
pension shall be considered a retired firefighter.
      (3)   In the event that there are no retired firefighters under the Fund
or if none is willing to serve on the Board, then an additional active
firefighter shall be elected to the Board in lieu of the retired firefighter
that would otherwise be elected.
(1988 Code, § 2-9-1) (Ord. 06-338, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 33.086 TERMS AND VACANCIES OF ELECTED MEMBERS.
   Each elected member shall hold office for a term of three years and until
his or her successor has been duly elected and qualified. In the event of
failure, resignation or inability of any elected member to act, his or her
successor shall be elected at a special election called by the Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-9-2)
§ 33.087 TREASURER OF THE BOARD.
   The Village Treasurer shall be ex-officio treasurer of the Board of Trustees
of the Firefighters’ Pension Fund. The bond he or she executes as Village
Treasurer shall also be conditioned for the faithful performance of his or her
duty as Treasurer of the Firefighters’ Pension Fund.
(1988 Code, § 2-9-3)
§ 33.088 DUTIES.
   (A)   Control of Firefighters’ Pension Fund. The Board of Trustees of the
Firefighters’ Pension Fund shall have control of the management of all funds
belonging to or designated by law as part of the Firefighters’ Pension Fund and
of the administration of such funds, as provided by 40 ILCS 5/4-123 to 5/4-129
as now or hereafter amended.
   (B)   Reports. The Board shall report to the President and Board of Trustees
at least annually, and its annual report shall be given in the month of May
stating:
      (1)   The assets in its custody;
      (2)   The estimated receipts for the period of January 1 to December 31
from deductions from salaries or wages of firefighter and from all other
sources; and
      (3)   The estimated amount required for:
         (a)   Paying all pensions and other obligations provided for in the
Firefighters’ Pension Fund Act; and
         (b)   Maintaining the reserve provided for in 40 ILCS 5/4-120 as now
or hereafter amended.
(1988 Code, § 2-9-4)
§ 33.089 COMPENSATION.
   No member of the Board shall receive any compensation for service performed
as a member of the Board.
(1988 Code, § 2-9-5)
§ 33.090 FUNDS.
   There shall be deposited in the Firefighters’ Pension Fund the sum required
to establish and maintain a reserve to ensure the payment of all obligations.
The reserve shall be not less than $1,000 for each 1,000 inhabitants of the
village.
(1988 Code, § 2-9-6)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.105 DEPARTMENT CREATED; MEMBERS.
   There is hereby created a Police Department, an executive department of the
village. The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such
other members as may be provided for from time to time by the President and
Board of Trustees. Neither the Chief of Police, nor any of the police officers
or other employees of the Police Department, shall be considered as officers of
the village, but they shall all be considered employees of the village.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 33.106 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the office of Police Chief.
   (B)   Appointment. The Police Chief shall be appointed by the Village
President by and with the consent and advice of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   Generally. He or she shall be responsible for the performance by
the Police Department of all its functions, and all persons who are members of
the Department shall serve subject to the orders of Chief of Police.
      (2)   Keeping Village Jail. The Chief of Police shall be the keeper of
the jail and shall have custody over all persons confined therein and of all
property pertaining thereto.
      (3)   Arrest records. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to keep
a record of the names of all persons arrested or committed to the Village Jail
or County Jail in a book to be provided for such purpose. Such record shall
show the date of arrest or committal, the number of days imprisoned, the amount
of the fine, when and to whom paid, and the date of discharge or other
disposition of such persons.
      (4)   Post notice of rights. The Chief of Police shall post in every
room, other than cells, of the building where persons are held under arrest or
are held in custody, in conspicuous places where it may be seen and read by
persons in custody and others, a poster printed in large type containing a
verbatim copy in the English language of the provisions of Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch.
38, para. 103-2, 103-3, 103-4, 109-1, 110-2, 110-4 and subp. (a) and (b) of
para. 110-7 and 113-3.
      (5)   Custodian of abandoned, stolen property. The Chief of Police shall
be custodian of all lost, abandoned or stolen property in the village and shall
make disposition of same in accordance with state statute.
      (6)   Execute orders of Health Inspector. The Chief of Police shall
execute or cause to be executed all orders directed to him or her by the Health
Inspector, so far as they relate to the preservation of the health of the
village.
      (7)   Reports required. The Chief of Police shall, prior to the first
meeting of the Village Board in June of each year, make an annual report in
writing to the Village Board of the state of the Police Department with a
detailed report of the transactions of the Department for the preceding year,
with such statistics and suggestions in regard to the requirements of the
Department as he or she may deem advisable; and shall also make reports of any
matter or thing concerning such Department, whenever requested by the President
or Village Board.
      (8)   Rules and regulations. The Chief of Police may make or prescribe
such rules and regulations for the guidance of the members of the Department as
he or she shall see fit; and such rules, when approved by the President and
Board of Trustees, shall be binding on such members.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. passed 6-13-1978)
§ 33.107 ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall be organized and the police officers and
employees thereof shall be appointed and shall function as provided by
ordinance and the rules and regulations applicable to the Police Department.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 33.108 SERGEANT.
   (A)   An additional sergeant position in the village’s Police Department is
hereby created.
   (B)   The position created in division (A) above shall be subject to the
rules and regulations of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners and the
1997-2000 Collective Bargaining Agreement between the village and the Police
Officers’ Benevolent Protective Association Labor Committee, Inc.
   (C)   The additional sergeant position in the village’s Police Department
shall be at the annual salary and shall include the duties and responsibilities
as provided for in the 1997-2000 Collective Bargaining Agreement between the
village and the Police Officers’ Benevolent Protective Association Labor
Committee, Inc.
(Ord. 99-121, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 33.109 POLICE CAPTAIN.
   (A)   (1)   The following position is hereby established, at the salary
provided by the village: Police Captain.
      (2)   The duties of the Police Captain shall be the same duties
prescribed in the village’s job description for Police Captain attached hereto
and made a part hereof. The position of Captain shall include the benefits as
set by the village.
   (B)   The Police Captain(s) shall be entitled to the following specified
employee benefits as are set forth in the Police Officers’ Benevolent and
Protective Association Labor Committee, Inc. Collective Bargaining Agreement
for Police Sergeants and Lieutenants, and amended from time to time,
retroactive to the effective date of said collective bargaining agreement:
holidays, vacations, sick leave, personal leave days, and longevity pay. No
other provisions of the BPBA Police Sergeants and Lieutenants collective
bargaining agreement, as amended, shall be applicable to the position of Police
Captain(s).
(Ord. 05-288, passed 5-16-2005; Ord. 09-492, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 33.110 APPOINTMENTS, PROMOTIONS AND DISCHARGES OF MEMBERS.
   Appointments to and promotions within the Police Department shall be made by
the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners in the manner provided by law. No
police officer shall be discharged from the Department, except after a hearing
on charges before the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners as provided by
law.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-4)
§ 33.111 OATH.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and all regular police officers shall, before
entering upon their duties, take and subscribe an oath to faithfully and
impartially discharge the duties of their position as fixed by ordinance. The
oath shall be as follows:
“I,                                               , do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States, the
Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the ordinances of the Village of
Dolton, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of
                                         to the best of my ability”.
   (B)   This oath or affirmation, so subscribed, shall be filed in the office
of the Village Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-5)
§ 33.112 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Generally. The Chief of Police and all members of the police force of
the village, when on duty, shall devote their time and attention to the
municipal affairs of the village, to preserve the peace, order, safety and
cleanliness thereof; and, to this end, they shall execute and enforce all
ordinances and police regulations and orders of the President and Village
Board. They shall take notice of all nuisances and at all times render all
necessary assistance to all village departments in the abatement thereof. They
shall take notice also, of the impediments, obstructions and defects in the
walks, streets, avenues, alleys and public places of the village and shall
remove the same or cause immediate notice to be given the proper person, whose
duty it may be to attend to the same according to the ordinances of the
village.
   (B)   Issue warrants and processes. The members of the police force of the
village shall have power and authority, and it shall be their duty, in the
village and outside of the same, when necessary and lawful, to serve and
execute warrants and other process for the apprehension and commitment of
persons charged with a violation of any of the village ordinances or any crime
or misdemeanor or violation of any law or ordinance of the village; and they
shall have the power and authority, and it shall be their duty, to serve and
execute any civil process issued on behalf of the village by any court of
proper jurisdiction; and while serving or executing or assisting in the service
or execution of any such warrant or process, they shall be vested with and have
all the powers and authority conferred on constables at common law and by the
laws of the state.
   (C)   Arrests. The members of the village police force shall have the power,
and it shall be their duty, to arrest on view, all persons in the village found
in the act of violating any law or ordinance or aiding or abetting in such
violations and to bring such persons so arrested before the court of proper
jurisdiction to be dealt with according to law.
   (D)   Appear as witness. All police officers making arrests shall attend as
witnesses before the court where the trial may be had, and shall procure all
necessary evidence in their power, and furnish a list of witnesses to the court
and the village’s Prosecuting Attorney, and no village police officers shall be
entitled to any witness fees to be taxed against the village in any action for
the violation of an ordinance where the village is plaintiff.
   (E)   Aid Fire Department. It shall be the duty of the Police Department to
aid the Fire Department by giving alarms in case of fire and clearing the
streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity of the fire so that the members of
the Fire Department shall not be hindered or obstructed in the performance of
their duties.
   (F)   Regulate traffic. The members of the police force of the village shall
regulate and direct, when necessary, the travel and movement of all persons and
vehicles traveling or going in the public streets or other thoroughfares within
the village, for the purpose of preventing injuries to persons or property and
of preserving peace and public order. All persons so traveling or going, or
having charge of such vehicles, are required to obey the orders and directions
of members of the police force of the village for the aforesaid purpose.
   (G)   Remove abandoned vehicles. The members of the police force shall
remove any abandoned or unattended vehicle standing on the main traveled part
of a street or highway in the village. They shall provide for the removal of
such vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
   (H)   Report of property seized or found. It shall be the duty of police
officers to report and deliver to the Chief of Police all property seized or
found by them immediately after the same shall have come into their possession,
which property, with the date of delivery and description of the same and the
name of the police officers depositing the same, shall be entered in a book
kept for that purpose by the Chief of Police who shall be responsible for the
same.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-6)
§ 33.113 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each and every police officer of the village,
whenever any accident shall occur within the municipal limits of which he or
she has notice or knowledge, to report forthwith in writing to the Chief of
Police, the place, day and nature of the accident; the hour of the day or night
when it occurred; the condition of the weather; if at night, whether cloudy,
clear or moonlight and whether the street lights were or were not lighted; the
name of each person injured and the extent and nature of the injury suffered;
the names and residences of the principal witnesses and the name and residence
of the examining physician, if any, which shall be entered in full upon a
record to be kept for the purpose in the office of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall make a report to the state’s Department of
Public Works and Buildings for each motor vehicle accident occurring within the
village within ten days after investigation of such accident.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-7)
§ 33.114 BADGE OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Every member of the Police Department shall wear a suitable badge to
be furnished by the village, and any member who shall lose or destroy the same
shall be required to pay the cost of replacing it.
   (B)   Whenever any member shall leave the Department, he or she shall
immediately deliver to the Chief of Police his or her badge and all other
articles in his or her possession belonging to the village.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-8)
§ 33.115 DUTY TO AID POLICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person in the village, when called upon by
any member of the Police Department, to promptly aid and assist him or her in
the execution of his or her duties.
   (B)   No person shall neglect or refuse to give such aid and assistance.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-9) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.116 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Interference with police. Any person who, in the village, shall resist
any member of the Police Department or any other person duly authorized to
perform police duty in the discharge of his or her duties, or shall in any way
interfere with, prevent or hinder him or her in the discharge of his or her
duty as such member, or shall offer or endeavor to do so, and any person who
shall in any manner assist any person in the custody of any member of the
Police Department to escape or attempt to escape from such custody, or attempt
to rescue any person from custody, shall be punished as provided herein.
   (B)   Impersonating or imitating a police officer.
      (1)   No person, other than a member of the Police Department or duly
authorized auxiliary police officer, shall assume to act as a police officer in
any capacity within the village.
      (2)   No person shall impersonate any of the members of the Police
Department, or shall maliciously or with intent to deceive, use or imitate any
of the signs, signals or devices adopted and used by the Police Department, or
shall wear in public the uniform adopted as the police uniform, after having
been removed or suspended.
   (C)   Police officers furnishing bail. No member of the police force shall
become or furnish bail for any person arrested for violation of any ordinances
of the village or for the criminal laws of the state.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-10) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.117 PRESS CARDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police has power to issue press cards entitling the
holder thereof to pass police and fire lines for the purpose of gathering and
editing spot news or photographing news events in the village.
      (2)   Such press cards shall be issued only to those engaged in
gathering, reporting, editing or photographing current news events for
newspapers, press associations, newsreels, radio and television stations. The
application for such press cards shall be made in writing by the employer on
behalf of the employee qualified to hold press cards.
      (3)   The employer shall represent that the employee on whose behalf an
application for a press card is made is a full-time reporter, editor, writer,
photographer or broadcaster of spot news, is of good moral character and is a
citizen of the United States.
   (B)   No such card shall be issued unless the applicant meets these
requirements and unless and until the fingerprints of the prospective holder
are filed in the office of the Chief of Police.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-11)
§ 33.118 FEES.
 
                          Fee
Accident/incident reports $15
Dog tags                  $15
Fingerprinting            $40
Other police reports/docs $10
 
(Ord. 09-466, passed 3-2-2009; Ord. 15-020, passed 6-1-2015)
PART-TIME POLICE
§ 33.130 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board.
   PART-TIME POLICE OFFICER. A law enforcement officer who has completed his or
her 18- month probationary period and is employed on a part-time basis as a law
enforcement officer by a participating unit of local government.
   POLICE TRAINING SCHOOL. Any school located within the state whether
privately or publicly owned which offers a course in police training and has
been approved by the Board under this code of ordinances and the state’s Police
Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and requirements of the
ILETSB.
   PROBATIONARY PART-TIME POLICE OFFICER. A recruit part-time law enforcement
officer required to successfully complete initial minimum part-time training
requirements within 18 months to be eligible for employment on a part-time
basis as a local law enforcement officer.
   RECRUIT. Any part-time law enforcement officer who is enrolled in an
approved training course.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.131 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A part-time police officer shall:
      (1)   Be a member of the regular Police Department, except for pension
purposes;
      (2)   Not be assigned under any circumstances to supervise or direct
full-time police officers of the village’s Police Department; and
      (3)   Shall not be used as permanent replacements for permanent full-time
police officers (65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-21).
   (B)   A person hired to serve as a part-time police officer must obtain,
from the Board, a certificate:
      (1)   Attesting to his or her successful completion of the ILETSB part-
time police training course;
      (2)   Attesting to his or her satisfactory completion of a training
program of similar content and number of hours that has been found acceptable
by the ILETSB under the provisions of the state’s Police Training Act; and
      (3)   Attesting to the Board’s ILETSB’s determination that the part-time
police training course is unnecessary because of the person’s extensive prior
law enforcement experience.
   (C)   Qualification dates:
      (1)   A person hired on or after 1-1-1996 must obtain the Board
certificate within 18 months after the date of hire; and
      (2)   A person hired before 1-1-1996 must obtain the Board certificate
within 24 months after the effective date of the amendatory Act of 1995.
   (D)   (1)   The village may seek a waiver from the Board extending the
period for compliance as allowed by ILETSB.
      (2)   A waiver shall be issued only for good and justifiable reasons and
may not extend the initial period by more than 90 days as allowed by ILETSB.
      (3)   If training is required and not completed within the applicable
time period, as extended by any waiver that may be granted, then the officer
must forfeit his or her position.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.132 HIRING STANDARDS.
   Any person employed as a part-time police officer must meet the following
standards:
   (A)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health and
physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
   (B)   Be at least 21 years of age;
   (C)   Pass a medical examination;
   (D)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
   (E)   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
   (F)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
   (G)   Any individual who served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.133 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village President, subject to the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees of the village, is authorized to appoint, discipline or terminate
part-time police officers as employees of the village’s Police Department.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.134 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All part-time police officers shall reside within 22 miles of the
nearest corporate limit of the village within one year from the date of the
original employment. Any village employee who shall fail to comply with the
provisions of this section shall be discharged from the employment of the
village in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   All part-time police officers who now reside more than 22 miles from
the nearest corporate limit of the village must become residents within the 22-
mile radius within 12 months after the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.135 CRIMINAL RECORD.
   (A)   Prior to appointment, all proposed part-time police officers shall be
fingerprinted and their fingerprints shall be checked with the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, Washington, D.C., for any possible criminal record.
   (B)   No person shall be appointed as a part-time police officer if he or
she has been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.136 PART-TIME POLICE TRAINING COURSE.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the part-time police training course
referred to shall be of similar content and the same number of hours for full-
time officers and shall be provided by Mobile Team In-Service Training Units
under the Intergovernmental Law Enforcement Officer’s In-Service Training Act,
being 50 ILCS 720/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, in a manner prescribed
by the Board.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.137 HOURS WORKED.
   A part-time police officer, who is a member of the village’s Police
Department, shall be employed for 1,560 hours or less per 12-month period
beginning on January 1 of any calendar year.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.138 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Part-time police officers shall have the following powers and duties,
when properly assigned and on duty:
      (1)   To aid or direct traffic in the municipality;
      (2)   To aid in control of natural or human-made disasters;
      (3)   To aid in case of civil disorder;
      (4)   To perform normal and regular police duties when assigned by the
Chief of Police on occasions when it is impracticable for members of the
regular Police Department to perform normal and regular police duties;
      (5)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
      (6)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
      (7)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or
Sunday in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper
magistrate;
      (8)   To serve and execute all warrants for the violation of municipal
ordinances or the state criminal law within the limits of the village, and for
this purpose, to have all the common law and statutory power of sheriffs; and
      (9)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
corporate authorities may prescribe.
   (B)   Part-time police officers shall, at all times during the performance
of their duties, be subject to the direction and control of the Chief of Police
of the village.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.139 IDENTIFICATION.
   Identification symbols worn by part-time police officers shall be different
and distinct from those used by the regular Police Department and shall be
selected and chosen by the Chief of Police of the village.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.140 FIREARMS.
   Part-time police officers shall carry firearms with the permission of the
village’s Chief of Police and then only when in uniform and in the performance
of their duties.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.141 COMPENSATION.
   Part-time police officers shall be paid such sum as the corporate authorizes
shall from time to time determine in the annual Appropriations (Budget)
Ordinance and Resolution Setting Salaries. Compensation, Expense Accounts and
other Remuneration for Employees of the Village of Dolton.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.142 DISCIPLINE.
   Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Chief
of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the discretion of the village
authorities, shall not have any property rights in said employment, and may be
removed by the village authorities at any time. Part-time police officers shall
comply with all applicable rules and general orders issued by the village’s
Police Department.
(Ord. 12-782, passed 11-19-2012)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.155 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Fire Department consisting
of a Chief of the Fire Department and such other officers and firefighter as
may hereafter be necessary to operate said Department and as may be provided
for in the annual appropriation ordinance.
   (B)   Said Department shall work in conjunction with the village’s Volunteer
Fire Department; however, the members of the village’s Volunteer Fire
Department as such, shall not be entitled to any benefits of this code relating
to pensions and tenure.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 33.156 APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Fire Chief, Assistant Chiefs, Deputy Chief and such other
volunteer officers as may be deemed necessary and in the vest interest of the
village’s Fire Department shall be appointed by the President by and with the
consent and advice of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Their appointment shall be from May 1 to April 30 of the next
succeeding year, or until their respective successors are duly appointed and
qualified.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be a full time salaried employee of the village.
The Assistant Fire Chiefs shall be two in number and shall be full time
salaried employees of the village. The Deputy Chief shall be chosen from the
ranks of the village’s Volunteer Firefighters and shall be compensated by
stipend as such volunteer.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-2-1) (Ord. 88-151, passed 10-11-1988; Ord. 92-179, passed 4-
28-1992)
§ 33.157 FIRE CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Chief of the Fire Department shall have sole and
absolute control and command over all persons connected with the village’s Fire
Department and he or she shall possess full power and authority over its
organization, government and discipline. He or she shall be subject to the
authority of the Village President.
   (B)   Entry powers; stop work order. The Chief of the Fire Department shall
have power to enter upon the premises wherein any fire has occurred, if
necessary, in order to investigate the origin of the fire; and he or she shall
have power to stop the construction of any building when the same is being done
in violation of any provision of the Fire Code of the village.
   (C)   Examine dangerous buildings and those to be altered; report required.
The Chief of the Fire Department shall examine all buildings and walls reported
dangerous or damaged by fire or accident, and shall, when requested by the
Village President, also examine all buildings under application for permit to
raze, enlarge, alter or rebuild, and he or she shall make a report of the
condition thereof to the President.
   (D)   Custody of Department property and equipment, examinations and
reports.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall have the custody, subject to the direction of
the Village President, and be accountable and responsible for all property and
equipment belonging to the Fire Department.
      (2)   He or she shall, at least four times in every year, examine into
the condition of the apparatus and hoses and report the same to the President
and Board of Trustees at the next subsequent meeting, together with such
recommendations as he or she may deem advisable in the premises.
   (E)   Annual report. The Chief of the Fire Department shall, in January of
each year, make a full and complete report of all transactions of the Fire
Department for the preceding year. Such report shall also show, as nearly as
can be ascertained, the number of fires, causes thereof, of accidents by fire
and the number of and a brief description of the buildings destroyed or
injured, together with the names of the owners and occupants, the amount of
property destroyed by fire and insurance thereon, and shall include such other
statistics and suggestions as he may deem advisable.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-2-2)
§ 33.158 DEPUTY FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Qualifications. No person shall serve as Deputy Fire Chief unless such
person is a member in good standing of the village’s Volunteer Firefighter
Association and shall possess a state certification as a Firefighter II by the
Personnel Standards and Education Division of the Office of the State Fire
Marshal or its successor.
   (B)   Responsibilities. The Deputy Fire Chief shall be a volunteer
firefighter of the Village Fire Department, shall perform those administrative
duties assigned by the Fire Chief and shall assume all powers, duties and
responsibilities of the Chief of the Fire Department in the absence of said
Chief.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-2-3) (Ord. 92-179, passed 4-28-1992; Ord. 92-180, passed 5-
12-1992)
§ 33.159 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Qualifications. No person shall serve as Assistant Fire Chief unless
such person shall possess a state certification as a Firefighter III by the
Personnel Standards and Education Division of the Office of the State Fire
Marshal, or its successor, and a valid certification by the state’s Department
of Public Health or its successor, as an emergency medical technician;
provided, however, that, the Assistant Fire Chief chosen from the village’s
volunteer firefighters shall not be required to possess the certification by
the state’s Department of Public Health or its successor, as an emergency
medical technician. No person shall serve as the Assistant Fire Chief chosen
from the village’s volunteer firefighters unless such person is a member in
good standing of the village’s Volunteer Firefighter Association.
   (B)   Responsibilities. The Assistant Fire Chief, on duty, shall assume all
powers, duties and responsibilities of the Fire Chief in the absence of said
Chief, and the Deputy Fire Chief, in the absence of said Deputy Chief.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-2-4) (Ord. 92-179, passed 4-28-1992; Ord. 92-180, passed 5-
12-1992)
§ 33.160 APPOINTMENTS, PROMOTIONS, REMOVALS AND SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   Except for the Fire Chief and Deputy Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chiefs
and the Deputy Fire Chief, all appointments and promotions within the regularly
paid Department shall be made by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners. No
member, except the Chief, shall be dismissed until after a hearing by the Board
of Fire and Police Commissioners.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall have power to suspend any regular firefighter
from duty, but he or she shall report such suspension to the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners within 24 hours and the reasons for his or her action. On
such report being made, the Board shall take such action thereon as shall seem
to it just and right in the premises. Any regular firefighter so suspended
shall not be entitled to pay while so suspended, nor until he or she shall be
returned to duty by the proper authority.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 85-136, 10-15-85; Ord. 92-179, passed 4-28-1992)
§ 33.161 DEPARTMENT DUTIES.
   It shall be the function and duty of the Fire Department and every member
thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires and to prevent the
occurrence or spread of such fire. It shall be the duty of the Chief, if within
his or her power, or the Deputy Chief to attend all fires occurring in the
village, and in case of absence from any fire, it shall be the duty of the
officer in command of the fire company first on the ground at such fire to take
charge of the Department, and during the absence of the Chief, Deputy Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, he or she shall have and exercise all the powers
of the Chief of the Fire Department.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 85-136, passed 10-15-1985)
§ 33.162 BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   The Fire Department shall have a Bureau of Fire Prevention, which shall be
operated under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department. The Chief
may designate any member of the Department an inspector of the Fire Prevention
Bureau and may prescribe and establish from time to time such rules and such
regulations as he or she may deem advisable, subject to the approval of the
Village President.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 33.163 ARSON INVESTIGATORS.
   (A)   Position established. There is hereby established the position of
arson investigator in the village’s Fire Department, which position is not a
rank, but is an assignment of duty and is exempt under the rules and
regulations of the Fire and Police Commission of the village.
   (B)   Appointment; qualifications. The arson investigator shall be appointed
by the Village Fire Chief and shall be a sworn employee of the village’s Fire
Department. He or she shall be enrolled in any school which is required of
village police officers and shall successfully complete same. In the event that
the school is not successfully completed, then the person shall no longer be an
arson investigator.
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The arson investigator appointed herein shall have the authority to
investigate the causes and origins of all fires in the village and shall have
the authority and power to arrest any person, in accordance with the laws of
the state, suspected of involvement in an arson.
      (2)   The primary duties of the arson investigator shall be to
investigate possible arsons occurring in the village and to which said
investigator shall be assigned to investigate by his or her supervisors. He or
she shall also follow through on all legal process in the arson cases under the
supervision of the commander of the Investigation Division of the village’s
Police Department.
   (D)   Determination and command of arson investigation. The command
personnel from the Fire Department and/or the Police Department on the scene of
a fire or explosion will make the determination to notify the arson
investigator(s) who will then be notified and will respond to the scene if not
already present. Immediately upon notification by command personnel to begin an
investigation of a fire or explosion, the arson investigator shall come under
the direct supervision of the commander of the Investigation Division of the
village’s Police Department. Said commander will be responsible to the Chief of
Police and will keep the Fire Chief informed as to the progress of the
investigation.
   (E)   Rules and regulations. The sworn employees of the village’s Fire
Department who are assigned as arson investigators shall be subject to the
rules and regulations of the village’s Fire Department and while on duty and
actively investigating a possible arson, will be subject to the rules and
regulations of the village’s Police Department.
   (F)   Registration required; issuance of identification. The village shall
register arson investigators in accordance with the laws of the state and in
the same manner as is required for police officers. Arson investigators shall
be issued identification by the village identifying him or her as an arson
investigator and giving the arson investigator a peace officer status as
provided in Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 127-1/2, para. 501.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-6) (Ord. passed 4-3-1985)
§ 33.164 RESCUE SQUAD.
   (A)   Rescue squad established. Since the Fire Department has been
instituted to promote fire prevention, fire inspection and fire suppression for
all property in the Fire District and for the protection and health of the
people within the village, there shall be established under the jurisdiction of
the village’s Fire Chief, emergency rescue and first aid service in the
following situations: heart attack; suffocation; drowning; automobile accident;
and any other incident within the village where emergency first aid treatment
is needed. This emergency rescue and first aid service shall be known as the
rescue squad service and shall be a part of the village’s Fire Department. All
members of the squad shall be under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department or, in his or her absence, under the supervision of the senior
officer at the scene of the incident.
   (B)   Rules and regulations. The corporate authorities of the village may
make such rules and regulations for the operation of the rescue squad as they
may deem feasible from time to time or may approve, by resolution, such rules
and regulations submitted to them by the Chief of the Fire Department
henceforth.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 33.165 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the village’s Fire Department to
investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring within
the village, by which property has been destroyed or damaged, and especially to
make investigation as to whether such fire was the result of carelessness or
design, or cause such investigation to be made by the Bureau of Fire
Prevention. Such investigation shall be begun immediately after the occurrence
of such fire. If the fire is of suspicious origin, the Chief shall be
immediately notified of the fact. He or she shall take charge of the physical
evidence, shall notify the proper authorities designated by law to pursue the
investigation of such matters and shall further cooperate with the authorities
in the collection of evidence and in the prosecution of the case. He or she
shall forthwith notify the Department of Public Safety and within one week of
the occurrence of such fire, furnish to the Department of Public Safety a
written statement of all facts relating to the cause or origin of the fire and
such other information as may be called for by the blanks provided by said
Department. He or she shall also cooperate with and assist the Department of
Public Safety in any investigation the Department of Public Safety shall deem
expedient or necessary to make.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 33.166 DUTIES OF BYSTANDERS.
   (A)   Obedience to Fire Department officials. Every person who shall be
present at a fire shall be subject and obedient to the orders of the Chief of
the Fire Department and other officers of the Fire Department in extinguishing
a fire and in the removal and protection of property, and in case any person
shall refuse to obey such orders, he or she shall be fined according to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Aid to Fire Department. It shall be lawful for the Chief of the Fire
Department or officers in command of any fire company to require the aid of any
driver of any licensed, motor-driven vehicle, or any citizen, inhabitant or
bystander, in drawing or conveying any engine or fire apparatus to any fire,
and in working and using the same while at a fire, and on the refusal or
neglect of any person to comply with such requisition, the offender shall for
such refusal, be fined according to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-9)
§ 33.167 DESTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS TO CHECK FIRES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department or, in his or her absence, the officer in
command, or in case of the absence of such officers at any fire, the President
or any two members of the village’s Board of Trustees, may direct the members
of the Fire Department to cut down and remove any building, structure or fence
for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire; and the Chief of the Fire
Department or other officer in command shall have the power to blow up, or
cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any building or structure
during the progress of a fire for the purpose of extinguishing or checking the
same.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-10)
§ 33.168 RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Entering fire houses. It is declared unlawful for any person or
persons to enter the Fire Department house or any place where the equipment and
apparatus of the Fire Department is stored at any time, except on business
pertaining to the Fire Department or other village business.
   (B)   Unlawful use of fire key. Should any person have in his or her
possession or make or cause to be made any key of any engine house or fire
alarm telegraph box, or use or cause to be used any such key without the
consent of the proper authority, every such person shall be subject to a fine
as set forth in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Tampering with signal box. No persons, except those connected with the
management of the same, shall open any signal box unless it be to communicate
an alarm of fire; or break, cut, deface, damage or in any manner meddle or
interfere with any signal box or fire alarm or telegraph wires under a penalty
as set forth in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Obstructing fire hydrant. No person shall in any manner obstruct the
use of any fire hydrant or have or place any material or vehicle in front
thereof or within 15 feet from either side thereof under a penalty of $25 for
each offense; and any and all material or vehicles found as an obstruction as
aforesaid may be forthwith removed by any member of the Fire Department and at
risk, cost and expense of the owner or claimant.
   (E)   False fire alarms. Whoever, without reasonable cause, by outcry or
otherwise, makes or circulates, or causes to be made or circulated, any false
alarm of fire shall be fined in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-11) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.169 BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to make or cause to
be made the inspections provided by Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances, and for
that purpose, the Chief or any officer or member of the Department is hereby
empowered and authorized at any and all reasonable times to enter upon and into
any of the aforesaid buildings and premises.
(1988 Code, § 4-1-12)
§ 33.170 FEES.
Car fires
   Dolton resident                    $300
   Non-resident                       $600
Hazardous (HazMat) condition             $700
Motor vehicle accidents
   With or without fluids on the groun$300 per vehicle involved
   Vehicle extrication                $500 per vehicle involved
   Expressway response                $600 per vehicle involved
   Air ambulance (helicopter evacuatio$2,100
Repeated false fire alarms
(More than 2 per calendar quarter)
   Home/residential                   $200
   Business                           $500
Special circumstances not listed         $500
Structure fires
   Dolton resident                    $500
                                         $300 per engine responding
   Non-resident                       $25 per man responding
                                         $25 per hour after first hour
Water rescue
   Vehicles above and below water     $500
Unincorporated billing
   Home                               $200 per year
   Business                           $500 per year
 
(Ord. 13-005, passed 6-17-2013; Ord. 18-005, passed 5-7-2018)
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD
§ 33.185 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a four-member Foreign Fire Insurance Board for the
village comprised of officers elected as set forth below, whose purpose is to
establish rules and regulations with respect to the management of money to be
received by the village as foreign fire insurance tax receipts as provided for
by 65 ILCS 5/11-10-2, as amended.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.186 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Foreign Fire Insurance Board.
   DEPARTMENT. Village of Dolton Fire Department.
   FUND. Foreign Fire Insurance Tax Fund.
   MEMBERS OF THE DEPARTMENT. Any sworn personnel currently employed full-time
in the village’s Department in the positions of firefighter, engineer, shift
lieutenant, civilian inspector of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and
Inspections, Chief or Assistant Chief.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.187 TAX IMPOSED.
   All corporations, companies and associations, not incorporated under the
laws of this state and which are engaged in the village in effecting fire
insurance, shall pay to the village annually, at the time of filing the reports
hereinafter mentioned, as a tax, a sum equal to 2% of the gross receipts for
premiums received by said corporations, companies or associations or their
agency or agents respectively, for business effected or transacted for fire
insurance within the village, for the year ending July 1 preceding such report.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.188 ANNUAL REPORT OF PREMIUMS.
   (A)   Every person acting as agent or otherwise for or on behalf of any
corporation, company or association taxed under this subchapter, shall on or
before July 15 of each year, file with the Village Treasurer a full report
verified by his or her oath, of all the premiums which during the year ending
on July 1 preceding such report shall have been received by him or her, or any
other person for him or her, in behalf of any such corporation, company or
association, and shall fully and specifically set out in the report the amounts
received as premiums for fire insurance.
   (B)   Provided, however, that, in cases where a firm acts as agent or
otherwise, the said verified report may be made by one member on behalf of the
firm.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.189 UNLAWFUL TO TRANSACT BUSINESS IF REPORT NOT FILED AND TAX NOT PAID.
   (A)   If the report required by this subchapter, is not filed on or before
the day herein designated for that purpose, or if the amount of the tax shall
remain unpaid after such date, as hereinbefore provided, it shall be unlawful
for any such corporation, company or association to transact any business of
fire insurance in the village until the requirements of this subchapter have
been fully complied with.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve any such corporation, company or
association from the payment of any risk that may be taken in violation
thereof.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.190 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO FILE REPORT AND PAY TAX.
   If any corporation, company or association subject to tax under this
subchapter fails to file the report herein required by the required day, or if
the amount shall remain unpaid after July 15 of any year, every such
corporation, company or association shall forfeit and pay to the village the
maximum fine set forth in accordance with the general penalty, as found in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances, for each and every offense, and in addition
to such penalty, the village shall recover in an action in its name, and for
its use, against such corporation, company or association so failing to make
such report or pay such rates, the full amount of the fees which may be due
under the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.191 FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE FUND.
   (A)   General. There is hereby established a Foreign Fire Insurance Fund to
be managed and administered by the Foreign Fire Insurance Board in accordance
with this section and operating on a fiscal year beginning on May 1 and ending
April 30.
   (B)   Transfers to Foreign Fire Insurance Fund. Each year, the Village
Treasurer shall collect foreign fire insurance taxes in the amount prescribed
in §
33.187 of this chapter and shall forward all moneys to the Foreign Fire
Insurance Fund Board within 15 business days of receipt. Such taxes shall be
appropriated for transfer to the Foreign Fire Insurance Fund in the manner
provided by law.
   (C)   Management and administration of the Fund. The Foreign Fire Insurance
Board shall administer the Foreign Fire’ Insurance Fund in accordance with the
following rules and regulations.
      (1)   Fund account. All money in the Foreign Fire Insurance Fund shall be
kept in a fully insured or collateralized interest-bearing account in a bank or
savings and loan located within the village, and designated by the village’s
Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Budget. Annually, by May 1, the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall
prepare and adopt a budget for the foreign fire insurance fund, listing fund
balance beginning of the year, estimated revenues, budgeted expenditures and
fund balance end of the year for the fiscal year beginning on the following May
1. Such budget shall be forwarded to the corporate authorities for adoption and
inclusion in the village’s annual budget.
      (3)   Use of Fund.
         (a)   Money from the Foreign Fire Insurance Fund may be used for the
following purposes and no others:
            1.   Maintenance of existing village’s Fire Department
firefighting, emergency medical treatment and department facilities and
equipment;
            2.   Purchase of equipment for firefighting, emergency medical
purpose and training purposes. All such equipment shall be purchased in the
name of the village’s Fire Department and shall become the property of the
village; and
            3.   Expenses related to operating the Fund.
         (b)   No such money shall be used for the personal benefit of any
person; or for any person, use or function not directly related to the
village’s Fire Department; or for food or beverages; or for any recreational or
entertainment activity.
   (D)   Designations of uses.
      (1)   List of appropriate expenditures. The Foreign Fire Insurance Board
shall develop and maintain a list of those items that the Board determines to
be appropriate expenditures under § 11-10-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65
ILCS 5/11-10-2, and division (C) above. The Board shall review and, if
necessary, update this list at least once each year no later than May 1 of each
year. The list shall be a public document. All actions must be in accordance
with the budget review and adoption process.
      (2)   Annual meeting; notice. The Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall
authorize use of money from the Foreign Fire Insurance Fund by annual written
resolution only, setting forth with particularity the items on which funds may
be expended and the amounts approved for expenditure. Such action shall be
adopted at or after an annual public meeting conducted no later than May 1 of
each year, which public meeting shall be noticed and conducted in accordance
with the state’s Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
      (3)   Recommended uses. Not fewer than 30 days prior to the date of the
aforesaid public meeting, the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall submit to the
Village Manager, and make available to the general public, a list of items
recommended for approval and funding from the Foreign Fire Insurance Fund.
      (4)   Purchases. All purchases will be made in accordance with this
subchapter and in accordance with the purchasing requirements as set forth in
this municipal code.
      (5)   Necessary vote. An affirmative vote of at least three members of
the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall be required to authorize any use of
money from the Foreign Fire Insurance Fund.
   (E)   Fund pay outs. The Foreign Fire Insurance Board Treasurer shall payout
money from the Foreign Fire Insurance Fund only upon the written order of the
Foreign Fire Insurance Board and only for maintenance, use and benefit of the
village’s Fire Department as permitted by this ordinance and authorized by
resolution of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board pursuant to division (D) above.
The written order of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board may consist of a notation
in duly approved minutes, an order signed by the President of the FFI Board, or
some other writing as may be designated by an authorized rule of the FFI Board.
The signatures of both the Board Treasurer and either the Board President or
the FFI Board Vice-President shall be required on any check, draft or other
order drawn on the account of the Foreign Fire Insurance Fund.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.192 LIMITATION ON DEBT AND EXPENDITURES.
   The Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall not be permitted to incur debt or to
enter into any contract or agreement for maintenance of existing equipment or
for new equipment in excess of the unencumbered funds currently on deposit in,
and authorized for expenditure from, the Foreign Fire Insurance Fund at the
time of execution of such contact or agreement.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.193 FUND RECORDS; MEETING MINUTES.
   The treasurer of the FFI Board shall keep accurate and current records of
the foreign fire insurance fund and all accounts maintained there under,
including all deposits thereto, withdrawals and disbursements there from,
balances therein, and all other regular and customary financial and accounting
information. The Secretary of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall keep
accurate and current minutes of all meetings conducted by the Foreign Fire
Insurance Board.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.194 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall, on or before May 30 each year, make
and file with the Village Treasurer, an annual report of the activities during
the prior year ended April 30, including a full and detailed account of all
receipts and disbursements made from the Foreign Fire Insurance Fund during the
village’s fiscal year ended immediately prior to the filing of such report. The
Foreign Fire Insurance Fund and all records relating thereto shall be subject
to and part of the annual audit of the village, including a balance sheet and a
detailed account of all revenues and expenditures in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles for the fiscal years beginning May 1 and ending
April 30.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.195 COMPATIBILITY.
   All purchases shall fall within recognized industry standards and comply
with the safety and compatibility requirements of the Fire Department as
determined by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.196 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a temporary village Fire Department
Election Committee. The Temporary Election Committee shall consist of three
members: the Chief of the village’s Fire Department; the President of the
village’s Professional Firefighters Association; and one other member to be
appointed by the Chief from the sworn members of the village’s Fire Department.
   (B)   The Temporary Election Committee shall be responsible for organizing,
conducting and supervising the initial election of Department members to serve
on the Board. The Temporary Election Committee shall establish election
procedures consistent with this subchapter. Thereafter, the elected Board shall
establish its own election procedures consistent with this subchapter.
   (C)   The FFI Board shall develop a procedure for governing the nomination
of members to serve on the FFI Board. The nominating procedure shall be
established a minimum of 30 days prior to the expiration of the initial FFI
Board members’ terms of office.
   (D)   The FFI Board shall develop a procedure for the final election of
Department members on the FFI Board. The final election procedure shall be
established a minimum of 30 days prior to the expiration of the FFI Board
members’ terms of office.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.197 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall consist of five full-time sworn
members of the Fire Department with one vote each. The members of the village’s
Fire Department shall elect three full-time sworn members of the Fire
Department who shall serve as the members of the FFI Board. The fourth position
shall be filled by the Fire Inspector, and the fifth position shall be filled
by the Chief of the Dolton Fire Department (or the Assistant Chief as the Fire
Chiefs designee).
   (B)   Elected members of the FFI Board shall serve two-year terms and until
their successor are elected and installed. The first FFI Board elected will
consist of two members elected to serve from the date of the election until 4-
30-2005, and one member elected to serve from the date of election until 4-20-
2006. All subsequent terms shall begin on May 1.
   (C)   Vacancies shall be filled by election of the members of the Department
for the balance of the unexpired term, if more than three months remain in the
term of the member leaving the FFI Board; otherwise, such vacancies shall be
filled by appointment of the Fire Chief from among the members of the Fire
Department.
   (D)   The members of the FFI Board shall then elect from among themselves
the following officers: Chairperson; Vice-Chairperson; Treasurer; and
Secretary.
   (E)   No probationary member of the Department may hold such office during
the time of his or her probation. Each candidate shall only be eligible for
election to the office that the candidate designates prior to the election. The
sworn member receiving the most votes for each of the offices of President,
Vice-President, Treasurer and Secretary shall be elected to such office. An
elected member of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall be eligible for
reelection, but no member shall serve in any office for more than three
consecutive terms. All full-time active members of the Fire Department at the
time of the election shall be eligible to vote. Eligible voters shall vote for
only three of the listed candidates.
   (F)   All elections will be organized, conducted and supervised by the
Village Comptroller/Director of the Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.198 OFFICERS; QUORUM; SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The FFI Board shall, in accordance with the Open Meetings Act, being 5
ILCS 120/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, establish a regular time and
place for its meetings. The Chairperson shall preside at the meetings.
   (B)   Three members of the FFI Board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of the business. The affirmative vote of three members of the FFI
Board shall constitute approval of business before it.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson, or by no less than
three members of the Board.
   (D)   Members on duty at the time of any meeting of the Foreign Fund
insurance Board shall be excused from duty to attend said meetings.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.199 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   FFI Board. The FFI Board shall have the power to approve the
expenditure of moneys for the maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire
Department. The FFI Board may adopt rules and regulations for governing the FFI
Board and the execution of the duties of the Board, and provide for election of
the FFI Board and management of funds. The FFI Board may amend or revoke rules
and regulations so adopted. The FFI Board shall, in accordance with the village
budget and appropriations procedures, annually prepare a budge which shall be
reviewed by the village’s Board of Trustees together with the Fire Department
budget.
   (B)   President. The President shall preside at all meetings of the Foreign
Fire Insurance Board. The President shall have such other powers as may be
given from time to time by action of the Board of Trustees of the village
consistent with the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (C)   Vice-President. The Vice-President shall carry out the duties of the
President during the absence or inability of the President to perform such
duties and shall carry out such other functions as are assigned from time to
time by the Foreign Fire Insurance President or the Board of Trustees of the
village.
   (D)   Secretary. The Secretary shall take minutes at any and all meetings of
the Foreign Fire Insurance Board. The Secretary shall keep a record of
resolutions, proceedings, minutes and actions of the FFI Board and these
records shall be open to the public. The records and minutes shall be kept in a
manner identical to the manner in which Village Board minutes are kept. The
Secretary shall also perform any other duties and functions as are assigned
from time to time by the President of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board or the
Board of Trustees of the village.
   (E)   Treasurer. The Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds
collected by the village from the foreign fire insurance company fees as
described in 65 ILCS 5/11-10-2;
      (2)   Deposit all such moneys in the name of the village’s Fire
Department in such banks, savings and loan associations or other depositories
as shall be selected by the Board of Trustees of the village;
      (3)   Invest said funds as are not immediately required in such
securities as the Board of Trustees of the village shall specifically or
generally select from time to time;
      (4)   Maintain the financial books and records of the Department;
      (5)   In general, perform all duties incidental to the office of assigned
to him or her by the Foreign Fire Insurance Board President or the Board of
Trustees of the village;
      (6)   The Treasurer of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall give a
sufficient bond to the village. This bond shall be approved by the Village
President, conditioned upon the faithful performance by the Treasurer of his or
her duties under this subchapter and the rules and regulations provided herein;
said bond shall be paid for from the funds collected from the foreign fire
insurance company fees; and
      (7)   The Treasurer of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall receive the
foreign fire insurance company fees so paid and shall pay out the money upon
the order of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board for the maintenance, use and
benefit of the Department.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.200 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall provide to the Board of Trustees of
the village, an annual audit not less, than 90 days after, the close of the
fiscal year, an annual audit of the financial affairs of the Foreign Fire
Insurance Board to be made by a certified public accountant at the end of each
fiscal year in accordance with the generally accepted auditing principals. The
annual report shall be delivered to the Village President, each Village
Trustee, Village Treasurer, Village Attorney and the Village Auditor. Said
audit shall be paid for from the funds collected from the foreign fire
insurance company fees. The village reserves the right to include in the annual
audit of the village the funds paid to the FFI Board to verify that the same
are used for maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department, and the FFI
Board shall reimburse the village for the cost of the audit of said funds.
(Ord. 04-267, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty has been prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any order issued in accordance with
§§
33.002 and
33.003 of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense against the village and
may be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500, and imprisoned for a period
not exceeding six months or both.
(1988 Code, § 5-3-4)
   (C)   Any person who violates any section of §§
33.105 through
33.118 of this chapter shall be fined according to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs.
(1988 Code, § 5-1-12)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
34.001   Policy and Procedure Manual
   
34.002   State Gift Ban Act
   
34.003   Equal Employment Opportunity Plan
   
34.004   Prevailing rate of wages
   
34.005   Sexual Harassment and Discrimination Policy
   
34.006   Village-owned and village-funded cell phone and mobile device policy
and procedures
   
34.007   Employee travel, meal and lodging expense procedures
   
34.008   Credit Card Policy
§ 34.001 POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL.
   The village’s policies and procedures concerning personnel regulations are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 03-202, passed 1-21-2003; Ord. 08-443, passed 9-2-2008; Ord. 08-446,
passed 9-15-2008; Ord. 08-450, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 34.002 STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   The village’s adoption of the state’s Gift Ban Act provisions is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 99-110, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 34.003 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY PLAN.
   The village’s Equal Employment Opportunity Plan is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 97-345, passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 97-346, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 34.004 PREVAILING RATE OF WAGES.
   The village’s prevailing rate of wages, and any amendments, is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full. The village
complies with the state’s Prevailing Wage Act, being 820 ILCS 130/1 et seq. as
now or hereafter amended. The current prevailing rates of wages for the county
are those determined by the state’s Department of Labor.
(Ord. 10-504, passed 8-2-2010)
§ 34.005 SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND DISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   The village’s Sexual Harassment Policy is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 18-014, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 34.006 VILLAGE-OWNED AND VILLAGE-FUNDED CELL PHONE AND MOBILE DEVICE POLICY
AND PROCEDURES.
   The village’s village-owned and village-funded cell phone and mobile device
policy and procedures is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as
if set out in full.
(Ord. 2024-011, passed 9-12-2024)
§ 34.007 EMPLOYEE TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSE PROCEDURES.
   The village’s employee travel, meal and lodging expense procedures is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2024-010, passed 9-12-2024)
§ 34.008 CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   The village’s Credit Card Policy is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 22-010, passed 12-14-2022; Ord. 24-006, passed 8-5-2024)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.001   Annual appropriations
   
35.002   Annual tax levy
   
35.003   Limit to indebtedness
   
35.004   Contracts and purchases
   
35.005   Bills; payroll
   
35.006   Transfer of funds
   
35.007   Audit of accounts
   
35.008   Special assessment funds
   
35.009   Copies of village documents; charges
   
35.010   Housing Court administrative fee
   
35.011   Public service announcements or advertisements paid for with public
money
Occupation Taxes
   
35.025   Home Rule Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
35.026   Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax
   
35.027   Municipal Use Tax
   
35.028   Hotel or Motel Room Rental Tax
   
35.029   Foreign fire insurance companies
   
35.030   Video Stores Occupation Tax
   
35.031   Vehicle Fuel Tax
   
35.032   Landfill Waste Tax
   
35.033   Municipal Utility Tax
   
35.034   Municipal Gas Use Tax
   
35.035   Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
35.036   Package Liquor Tax
   
35.037   Amusements (Push Tax)
   
35.038   Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax
“Interested Parties” Registries
   
35.045   Definitions
   
35.046   Establishment
   
35.047   Maintenance
   
35.048   Registration by residents
   
35.049   Registration by organizations
   
35.050   Determination of eligibility
   
35.051   Renewal and termination
   
35.052   Amendment of registry
   
35.053   Available for public inspection
   
35.054   Notices to be sent to interested parties
   
35.055   Non-interference
   
35.056   Amendment of registration rules
Investment Policy
   
35.070   Investment policy
   
35.071   Scope
   
35.072   Prudence
   
35.073   Objective
   
35.074   Delegation of authority
   
35.075   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
35.076   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
35.077   Authorized and suitable investments
   
35.078   Collateralization
   
35.079   Safekeeping and custody
   
35.080   Diversification
   
35.081   Maximum maturities
   
35.082   Internal control
   
35.083   Performance standards
   
35.084   Reporting
   
35.085   Marking to market
   
35.086   Investment policy adoption
 
   
35.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.001 ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   During the first quarter of each fiscal year, as required by statute,
the President and Board of Trustees shall enact an appropriation ordinance in
which shall be itemized all anticipated expenditures to be met during the
coming year, other than those payable from bond issues.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be published as required by law within ten days
after its enactment.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-1)
§ 35.002 ANNUAL TAX LEVY.
   Not sooner than ten days after the publication of the appropriation
ordinance, a tax levy ordinance shall be enacted as required by law, levying
such taxes as may be needed to meet the anticipated expenses of the coming
year, together with such taxes as may be required to meet outstanding bond
issues or for purposes payable from special taxes properly authorized. A
certified copy of the tax levy ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk
not later than the second Tuesday in September. Such ordinance shall show the
total appropriated for each item and the amount of tax levied therefor.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-2)
§ 35.003 LIMIT TO INDEBTEDNESS.
   (A)   Limitation. The corporate authorities may borrow money on the credit
of the corporation for corporate purposes, and issue bonds therefor, in such
amounts and form, and on such conditions as the corporate authorities
prescribe. Before, or at the time of incurring any indebtedness, the corporate
authorities shall provide for the collection of a direct annual tax sufficient
to pay the interest on the debt as it falls due, and also to pay and discharge
the principal.
   (B)   Borrowing funds. The corporate authorities may borrow money from one
fund for the use of another fund; providing, such borrowing shall be repaid
within the current fiscal year.
   (C)   Refunding of debt. The corporate authorities may provide for the
consolidation or refunding of maturing bonds and the funding of judgment debts,
and to issue bonds in place of maturing bonds or judgment debts.
   (D)   Preceding ordinance. During the first quarter of any fiscal year,
before the enactment of the current appropriation ordinance, the village may
operate under the appropriation ordinance of the preceding year.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-3)
§ 35.004 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES.
   (A)   General contracts.
      (1)   The Village President or any other person designated by the Board
of Trustees may sign, on behalf of the village, any contract authorized by the
Village Board. No contract other than contracts with service providers may be
entered into without the authority of the Village Board.
      (2)   All contracts with service providers in an amount greater than
$1,500 shall require prior approval of the Board of Trustees. For purposes of
this section, SERVICE PROVIDERS shall mean individuals or firms who provide
technical, consulting, property maintenance or similar service activities, not
involving the sale of supplies to the village.
   (B)   General purchases. The necessary supplies, materials and equipment for
the operation of the various departments of the village shall be on requisition
of the proper officer or employee of the department; provided that, funds for
the purchase of such supplies, services and equipment have been duly
appropriated; and, provided that, such purchases have been authorized by the
President and Board of Trustees in the manner prescribed by and subject to the
limitations imposed by law.
   (C)   Contracts over $10,000.
      (1)   All necessary supplies, materials or equipment or any work or other
public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special
assessment or special taxation, when the expense thereof will exceed $10,000
shall be let by contract to the lowest responsible bidder after advertising for
bids in a publication of general distribution printed or distributed in the
village for proposals for furnishing such supplies, material or equipment or
any work or other public improvement. Plans and specifications for same shall
be first placed on file in the office of the Village Clerk before such
advertisement shall be made, and shall be open to public inspection. Unless
otherwise required by law, the advertisement shall be published not less than
ten days before the day fixed for receiving bids; provided, however, that, any
such contract may be entered into by the proper office without advertising for
bids, if authorized by a vote of two-thirds of all the Trustees then holding
office.
      (2)   In all cases involving the advertisement for bids for furnishing
the matter called for in this division (C), there shall be accompanied a
deposit where required by law or the corporate authorities, and named in the
advertisement, which deposit shall not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
supplies, material, equipment, work or other public improvement.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-4) (Ord. 87-106, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 12-560, passed 5-21-
2012; Ord. 17-014, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 35.005 BILLS; PAYROLL.
   (A)   All bills payable by the village shall be submitted to the President
and Board of Trustees for approval before payment.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall pay out money in payment of all bills, or for
salaries, or for any other purpose other than the retirement of principal or
interest on bonds or tax anticipation warrants only upon warrant signed by the
Village President and the Village Clerk, as provided by statute. Such warrants
shall also be signed by the Village Treasurer and shall designate the items to
be paid and the funds from which they are to be paid.
   (C)   All warrants drawn on the Treasurer must be signed by the President
and countersigned by either the Village Treasurer and/or the Finance Committee
Chairperson and/or the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund or
appropriation to which the same is chargeable and the person to whom payable,
and no money shall be otherwise paid, except as may be provided by statute.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-5) (Ord. 03-218, passed 4-21-2003; Ord. 04-248, passed 4-19-
2004)
§ 35.006 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Money shall not be transferred by the Treasurer from one fund to
another, after it has been received by him or her, nor appropriated to any
other purpose other than that for which it has been collected or paid, except
as may be ordered by the majority of the corporate authorities.
   (B)   Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, all transfers of funds
shall be in the manner and form prescribed by statute.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-6) (Ord. 98-363, passed 4-9-1998)
§ 35.007 AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS.
   As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal year and no later than
six months thereafter, there shall be an audit of all accounts of the village
made by a competent person authorized to act as an auditor under the laws of
the state, to be designated by the Village Board. Copies of such audit report
shall be filed with the Village Clerk and with the Director of the state’s
Department of Revenue and in such other places as may be required by law.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-7)
§ 35.008 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   All moneys received on any special assessment shall be held by the
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied only to the payment of the
improvement or bonds and vouchers issued therefor, together with interest
thereon, for which the assessment was made, and said money shall be used for no
other purpose unless to reimburse the village for the money expended for such
improvement. Payments on bonds or vouchers shall be made in accordance with the
statutes and the Treasurer shall keep his or her books and accounts in such a
manner so that proper prorations in payments of principal and interest can be
made and ascertained.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall prevent the transfer of excess reserve funds as
may be determined by audit and upon direction of the President and Board of
Trustees in the manner and form provided by statute.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-8)
§ 35.009 COPIES OF VILLAGE DOCUMENTS; CHARGES.
   (A)   The Village Clerk is authorized to collect the following charges for
the furnishing of certain documents:
      (1)   For furnishing copies of any page of this code: $0.25 per page and
$0.50 for the certificate with seal affixed thereto. Minimum charge for this
service shall be $1; and
      (2)   For furnishing a certified copy of any document, instrument or
other paper: $0.25 per page and $0.50 for the certificate with seal affixed
thereto. Minimum charge for this service shall be $1. No charge shall be made
to any officer or employee for any documents needed by said officer or employee
in the furtherance of the business of the village.
   (B)   All funds received under the provisions of this section shall be
deposited in the General Corporate Fund of the village.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-9)
   (C)   Costs incurred by the village for furnishing any copies under this
section shall be deemed a debt to the municipality. Court costs and reasonable
attorneys fees shall be awarded to the village in any action in which the
village seeks to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 94-266, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 35.010 HOUSING COURT ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   In the event of a finding of a violation of any of the village’s housing
related ordinances as determined through the administrative adjudication
process in housing court, the adjudicator shall assess an administrative
processing fee of $25 in addition to imposing a fine.
(Ord. 14-009, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 35.011 PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENTS OR ADVERTISEMENTS PAID FOR WITH PUBLIC
MONEY.
   (A)   No public service announcements or advertisement, including, but not
limited to, those paid with public moneys, that is made on behalf of the
village, any village department or village-sponsored or administered program
shall refer to or contain the name of any elected official, appointed official
or employee of the village.
   (B)   As used herein, PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENTS OR ADVERTISEMENTS shall
include any village signs, village vehicle signs, village posters, village
advertisements, village newsletters, print media, visual medium, broadcast
media, website or similar type of official communication. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the following shall not be considered PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENTS
OR ADVERTISEMENTS:
      (1)   A publication listing elected officials along with other relevant
staff members for contact purposes only;
      (2)   Reference may be made to the elected official or employee by
personal name or likeness if required by law to execute official duties;
      (3)   Reference to an elected officer’s name only in the letterhead as
part of the stationary, forms or envelope of the village, except that:
         (a)   The names of all elected officials of the village must appear in
the same type size, typeface, type color and general location; and
         (b)   Such item may not include an elected officer’s photograph.
      (4)   Business cards which do not contain the elected officer’s
photograph or more than one mention of the elected officer’s name;
      (5)   Any items sent by the village to administer a program, to persons
subject to that program, in any instance where the mailing of such item is
essential to the functioning of the program, where the item does not include
the elected officer’s photograph, and where use of the elected official’s name,
office, title or signature is necessary to the functioning of the program; and
      (6)   A single response to an unsolicited request, wherein a written
communication from a third party, which reasonably requires a response and
which is not requested or induced by the recipient elected official or by any
third person acting at his or her behest.
   (C)   (1)   No elected official, officer or employee of the village shall
expend public moneys in violation of this section.
      (2)   Any and all invoices received in conflict with this section shall
not be paid.
   (D)   A copy of the ordinance codified herein shall accompany every purchase
order related to print media, visual medium, broadcast media, billboards,
signs, website or similar type of official communication.
   (E)   Any public service announcements or advertisements paid for with
public moneys, but generated prior to the effective date of this section shall
not be subject to the limitations set forth herein.
(Ord. 24-003, passed 1-24-2024)
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 35.025 HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   Effective 1-1-2026, the Home Rule Municipal Retailers’ Occupation
Tax imposed by the village on all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail within the village, other than items of
tangible personal property titled or registered with an agency of this state’s
government, is hereby established at the rate of 1% on the gross receipts from
such sales, all in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
      (2)   Appropriate notification shall be served upon all businesses within
the village with relation to which the taxes are imposed and appropriate forms
shall be prepared by the village relative to the reporting and payment of the
taxes so imposed.
   (B)   Accounting. Every such person engaged in such business in the village
shall file reports as required under § 3 of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act
(35 ILCS 120/3), as amended.
   (C)   Payment of tax. At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state’s Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on
account of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the
preceding month.
   (D)   Department of Revenue to administer. The tax hereby imposed, and all
civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected
and enforced by the state’s Department of Revenue. The state’s Department of
Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
section.
(1988 Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. passed 12-19-1978; Ord. 93-218, passed 8-3-1993;
Ord. 93-228, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 13-003, passed 6-17-2013; Ord. 2025-010,
passed 9-2-2025)
§ 35.026 HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   Effective 1-1-2026, the Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax
imposed by the village on all persons engaged in the village in the business of
making sales of service of tangible personal property transferred by such
servicepersons as an incident to a sale of service is hereby established at the
rate of 1%, all in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
      (2)   Appropriate notification shall be served upon all businesses within
the village with relation to which the taxes are imposed and appropriate forms
shall be prepared by the village relative to the reporting and payment of the
taxes so imposed.
   (B)   Accounting. Every such supplier or serviceperson required to account
for municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of the municipality shall
file as required under § 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act (35 ILCS 115/9),
as amended.
   (C)   Payment of tax. At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state’s Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
   (D)   Department of Revenue to administer. The tax hereby imposed, and all
civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected
and enforced by the state’s Department of Revenue. The state’s Department of
Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
section.
(1988 Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. passed 12-19-1978; Ord. 93-218, passed 8-3-1993;
Ord. 93-228, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 13-003, passed 6-17-2013; Ord. 2025-010,
passed 9-2-2025)
§ 35.027 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of § 8-
11-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-6) upon the privilege of
using in the municipality any item of tangible personal property which is
purchased at retail from retailer, and which is titled or registered at a
location within the corporate limits of the village with an agency of state
government. The tax shall be at the rate of 0.5% of the selling price of such
tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as defined in the Home
Rule Municipal Use Tax Act, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1 et seq.
      (2)   Appropriate notification shall be served upon all businesses within
the village with relation to which the taxes are imposed and appropriate forms
shall be prepared by the village relative to the reporting and payment of the
taxes so imposed.
   (B)   Collection and payment of tax. Such tax shall be collected by the
village and shall be paid before the title or certificate of registration for
personal property is issued.
(1988 Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. passed 10-1-1974; Ord. 93-218, passed 8-3-1993; Ord.
93-228, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 35.028 HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOM RENTAL TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning.
      HOTEL ROOM or MOTEL ROOM. A room within a structure offered for rental on
a daily basis and containing facilities for sleeping. One room offered for
rental with or without an adjoining bath shall be considered as a single HOTEL
OR MOTEL ROOM. The number of HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOMS within a suite shall be
computed on the basis of those rooms utilized for the purpose of sleeping.
      OWNER. Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the
operation of a hotel or motel room or receiving the consideration for the
rental of such hotel or motel room.
      PERSON. Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business
trust, institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation,
district or other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee,
operator, user or owner, or any officers, agents, employees or other
representative, acting either for himself or herself or for any other person in
any capacity, or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights
and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular or plural is included in any
circumstances.
   (B)   Tax imposed, payment and collection.
      (1)   There is hereby levied and imposed upon the use and privilege of
renting a hotel or motel room within the village a tax of 5% of the gross
rental receipts received by such hotel or motel. This tax, however, shall not
be levied and imposed upon any person who rents a hotel or motel room for more
than 30 consecutive days or to a person who works and lives in the same hotel
or motel, or persons or corporations that are billed monthly.
      (2)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax is
to be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or
motel room, said person hereinafter referred to as “renter”.
      (3)   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all
other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel or
motel to secure said tax from the renter of the hotel or motel room and to pay
over to the Village Collector said tax under procedures prescribed by the
Village Collector, or as otherwise provided in this section.
      (4)   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this section
shall secure said tax from the renter at the time he or she collects the rental
payment for the hotel or motel room. Upon the invoice receipt or other
statement or memorandum of the rent given to the renter at the time of payment,
the amount due under the tax provided in this section shall be stated
separately on said documents.
   (C)   Transmittal of tax revenue.
      (1)   (a)   The owner or owners of each hotel or motel room within the
village shall file tax returns showing tax receipts with respect to each hotel
and motel room during each three-month period, commencing on and including
January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1, upon forms prescribed by the Village
Collector. The return shall be due on or before the fifteenth day of the
calendar month succeeding the end of the quarterly filing period (i.e., return
for January, February and March tax receipts, due on or before April 15; return
for April, May and June tax receipts, due on or before July 15; and the like).
         (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions above, the first taxing period
for the purpose of this section shall commence on January 1, and shall cease on
March 31. The tax return and payment for such period shall be due on or before
April 15. All subsequent reporting periods shall be full calendar quarters, as
provided in division (C)(1) above. At the time of filing said tax returns, the
owner shall pay to the Village Collector all taxes due for the period to which
the tax return applies.
      (2)   Any owner of a hotel or motel who, for the preceding quarterly
period, has failed to file a proper return and pay over the proper amount of
tax to the Village Collector, may be required by the Village Collector, in his
or her discretion, to file subsequent returns and pay the tax herein imposed on
a monthly basis, in which case payments of the tax shall be made to the Village
Collector on or before the fifteenth day of the month succeeding the month for
which the tax was due.
      (3)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the
rate of 1% per 30-day period, or portion thereof, from the day of delinquency
shall be added and collected.
   (D)   Books and records; examinations. The Village Collector, or any person
certified by him or her as his or her deputy or representative, may enter the
premises of any hotel or motel for inspection and examination of books and
records in order to effectuate the proper administration of this section and to
assure the enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed. It shall be
unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the Village
Collector, or his or her duly authorized deputy or representative, in the
discharge of his or her duties in the performance of this section. It shall be
the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete books and records to
which the Village Collector, or his or her deputy or representative (authorized
by him or her), shall at all times have full access, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing:
      (1)   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the 24-hour
period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel room where such shall
occur; and
      (2)   The actual hotel or motel tax receipts collected for the date in
question.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Action to force payment of tax. Whenever any person shall fail to
pay any tax as herein provided, the Village Attorney shall, upon the request of
the Village Collector, bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the
payment of said tax in behalf of the village in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (2)   Suspension of license. If the President, after hearing held by or
for him or her, shall find that any person has willfully avoided payment of the
tax imposed by this section, he or she may suspend or revoke all village
licenses held by such tax evader. The owner shall have an opportunity to be
heard at such hearing to be held not less than five days after notice of the
time and place of the hearing to be held, addressed to him or her at his or her
last known place of business. Pending notice, hearing and finding, any license
of which he or she may be in possession may be temporarily suspended. Any
suspension or revocation of any license shall not release or discharge the
owner from his or her civil liability for the payment of the tax nor from
prosecution for such offense.
   (F)   Disposition of proceeds. All proceeds resulting from the imposition of
the tax under this section, including penalties, shall be paid into the
treasury of the village.
(1988 Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. passed 10-5-1976; Ord. passed 12-7-1976) Penalty,
see §
35.999
§ 35.029 FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   (A)   Tax imposed. All corporations, companies and associations not
incorporated under the laws of the state, and which are engaged in effecting
fire insurance, shall pay to the Village Treasurer for the maintenance, use and
benefit of the Fire Department, a sum of money equal to 2% of the amount of all
premiums which during the year, ending on every July 1, shall have been
received for any insurance effected or agreed to be effected by or with such
corporation, company or association on any property within the village. Such
payments shall be made for the year ending July 1 of each year.
   (B)   Reports required; payment of tax. Every person acting as agent or
otherwise, for or on behalf of any such corporation, company or association
shall, on or before July 15 of each and every year, render to the Clerk a full,
true and just account, verified by his or her oath, of all premiums which,
during the year ending on July 1 preceding such report, shall have been
received by him or her, or by any other person for him or her, in behalf of any
such corporation, company or association and shall specify in such report the
amounts received for fire insurance on property within the village. Such agent
shall also, at the time of rendering the aforesaid report, pay to the Treasurer
the sum of money for which the companies, corporations or associations
represented by them are severally chargeable by virtue of the provisions of
this section.
   (C)   Recovery; effect on policies.
      (1)   The sum of money for which such company, corporation or association
is so chargeable may be recovered of it or its agent or agents, by an action in
the name of and for the use of the village as for money had and received.
      (2)   Nothing in this division (C) shall be held to exempt any person,
corporation, company, or association from indictment and conviction under the
provisions of an act of the General Assembly of the state entitled an Act to
Enable Cities, Towns, Villages and Fire Protection Districts Organized under
the General or Special Law, to Levy and Collect a Tax or License Fee from
Foreign Insurance Companies for the Benefit of Organized Fire Departments, and
amendments thereof.
   (D)   Insurance brokers restricted. No insurance broker shall place any
insurance with any company, association or corporation not incorporated under
the laws of the state which shall be in default for not reporting or making
payment as hereinbefore provided until it shall have complied with all the
requirements of this section.
(1988 Code, § 3-2-5) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.030 VIDEO STORES OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the leasing of
videocassettes valued in money whether received in money or otherwise,
including cash, credits, services, and property of every kind and nature, and
shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost of
videocassette, the labor or service costs or any other expenses whatsoever.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation, or political subdivision of the state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      TAXPAYER. A person engaged in the business of leasing videocassettes
within the corporate limits of the village.
      VIDEOCASSETTES. A relatively wide magnetic tape used to record television
images, usually together with associated sound, for subsequent playback and/or
broadcasting.
   (B)   Imposition of tax.
      (1)   A tax imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of leasing
videocassettes within the corporate limits of the village at the rate of 8% of
the gross receipts from the business effective 1-1-1992.
      (2)   (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of each calendar month, each
taxpayer shall make a return to the Village Treasurer for the preceding
calendar month accompanied by a report form supplied by the Village Collector,
indicating the information as listed below:
            1.   The taxpayer’s name;
            2.   The address of the taxpayer’s principal place of business in
the village;
            3.   The taxpayer’s gross receipts from the leasing of
videocassettes;
            4.   The amount of tax computed on division (B)(1) above; and
            5.   Other reasonable information that the Treasurer may require.
         (b)   Each video store owner shall transmit to the Village Collector
for receipt by said official, no later than the fifteenth day of each calendar
month, a sum of money equal to the amount as listed on the form as referenced
in division (B)(2)(a) above, and such other information as the office may
require for enforcement of this section.
      (3)   In making the return, the taxpayer shall determine the value of
actual consideration other than money received by the taxpayer. This
determination shall be subject to review and revision by the Treasurer as
provided in division (C) below for correction of returns.
   (C)   Return corrections. If the Village Collector has reason to believe and
does believe that any return is incorrect, after notice to the taxpayer and an
opportunity to be heard, according to the Village Collector’s best judgment and
information. Any return so corrected by the Village Collector shall be prima
facie correct.
   (D)   Rules and regulations. The Village Collector is authorized reasonable
rules and regulations relating to the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter as may be deemed expedient.
   (E)   Failure to make return. In case any taxpayer fails to make a return
when and as required by this section, the Village Collector, after notice to
the taxpayer and an opportunity to be heard, shall determine the amount of the
tax according to the Village Collector’s best judgement and information. This
amount, when so fixed, shall be prima facie correct.
(Ord. 91-170, passed 11-26-1991) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.031 VEHICLE FUEL TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTOR or VEHICLE FUEL DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who produces,
refines, blends, compounds or manufactures vehicle fuel in the village, or
transports or has transported vehicle fuel to any location in the village, or
receives in the village vehicle fuel, on which the village’s Vehicle Fuel Tax
has not been paid; or sells vehicle fuel to a retail dealer for resale in the
village. DISTRIBUTOR shall include any person who transports vehicle fuel into
the village or receives vehicle fuel in the village for his or her own use and
consumption, and not for sale or resale.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
corporation, joint venture, joint stock company, receiver, trustee,
conservator, legal representative or other legally recognized entity.
      RETAIL DEALER or RETAIL VEHICLE FUEL DEALER. Any person who is engaged in
the business of selling vehicle fuel in the village to a purchaser for the
purchaser’s use or consumption, and not for resale in any form.
      SALE, RESALE or PURCHASE. Any transfer of ownership or title or both, any
exchange or any barter, whether conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by
any means whatsoever for consideration.
      SALE AT RETAIL. Any sale to a person for that person’s use or consumption
and not for resale to another.
      TAX. Dolton Vehicle Fuel Tax.
      USE. The exercise of any right to or power over vehicle fuel incident to
the ownership thereof, including, but not limited to, the receipt of vehicle
fuel by any person into a fuel supply tank of a vehicle.
      VEHICLE. Any machine or device in, upon or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a rail, street, road highway or
otherwise upon land, in or upon water or through the air. VEHICLE includes,
without limitation, automobiles, trucks, buses, trains, motorcycles, boats,
airplanes and helicopters.
      VEHICLE FUEL. Any volatile and inflammable liquid or gas produced,
blended or compounded for the purpose of or which is suitable for operating a
vehicle, or which is used in propelling a vehicle. VEHICLE FUEL includes,
without limitations, gasoline, gasohol, diesel oil, motor benzol, motor
benzene, propane gas fuel, kerosene and “special fuel”, as defined in the
state’s Motor Fuel Tax Law.
   (B)   Tax imposed. A tax hereby imposed upon the privilege of purchasing or
using, in the village, vehicle fuel purchased in a sale at retail. The tax
shall be at a rate of $0.01 per gallon of vehicle fuel. The ultimate incidence
of and liability for payment of the tax shall be upon the purchaser or user of
the vehicle fuel, and nothing in this section shall be construed to impose a
tax upon the occupation of selling or distributing vehicle fuel, it shall be a
violation of this section for any distributor or retail dealer to fail to add
this tax to the retail price of vehicle fuel or to absorb the tax. The tax
shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.
   (C)   Payment on retail purchase. “Use in the Village” shall be deemed to
occur only at the place in the village where the vehicle fuel is transferred
into the vehicle by which it is to be used or consumed. To the extent that a
person has paid the tax imposed herein on, the retail purchase of vehicle fuel,
he or she shall be exempt from the payment of and liability for said tax on the
use of such fuel.
   (D)   Collection.
      (1)   The village’s Vehicle Fuel Tax shall be collected by each vehicle
fuel distributor who sells such fuel to a retail vehicle fuel dealer doing
business in the village. Any distributor who shall pay the tax to the village
shall collect the tax from any retail dealer to whom the distributor sells
vehicle fuel. The retail dealer shall in turn collect the tax from the
purchaser of the vehicle fuel. Any distributor who sells vehicle fuel directly
to a purchaser of user, for delivery in the village, and not for resale, shall
collect the tax from the purchaser or user.
      (2)   If any retail vehicle fuel dealer receives vehicle fuel upon which
the village’s Vehicle Fuel Tax has not been collected by the distributor, the
retail dealer shall remit such tax directly to the Department of Revenue by the
last day of the month following the month in which he or she received such
vehicle fuel, and shall collect such tax from his or her purchasers.
      (3)   If any purchaser or user receives vehicle fuel upon which the
village’s Vehicle Fuel Tax has not been collected by the distributor or retail
dealer, such purchaser or user shall pay the tax directly to the village by the
last day of the month following the month in which such purchaser or user made
the taxable purchase or use of the vehicle fuel.
      (4)   Any tax remittance required to be made directly to the village
shall be made to the Department of Revenue and shall be accompanied by
remittance form prescribed by the Department. Any person who collects the
village’s Vehicle Fuel Tax shall do so as a trustee for and on account of the
village.
   (E)   Registration; return; filing. Every vehicle fuel distributor doing
business on 5-1-2011 shall register with the Department of Revenue by 4-1-2011.
Every person becoming a distributor after that date shall register with the
Department of Revenue within 30 days after the commencement of such business.
Every distributor shall file each month with the Department of Revenue a
remittance return, containing a report of his or her sales of vehicle fuel to
retail dealers or users in the village occurring in the prior month. The return
shall be in a form prescribed and furnished by the Department of Revenue. If
mailed, the return must be postmarked on or before the last day of the month
following the month for which the report is due. Each such return shall be
accompanied by a remittance of the appropriate amount of tax applicable to the
sales reported. Payment shall be made to the Department of Revenue.
   (F)   Inventory report. By 5-1-2011, every retail vehicle fuel dealer shall
file with the Department of Revenue on forms supplied by the said Department
for that purpose, an inventory of all vehicle fuel in the retail dealer’s
possession on 3-31-2011 at 12:01 a.m. The owner or chief executive officer of
the retail dealer shall sign the inventory report and attest under oath to its
accuracy. With the inventory report, the retail dealer shall pay to the village
the Vehicle Fuel Tax due on the sale of all vehicle fuel in the retail dealer’s
possession on at 12:01 a.m. and for which such tax has not been collected on
behalf of the village by a vehicle fuel distributor.
   (G)   Commission on tax paid when due. A distributor or retail dealer
remitting the tax to the village shall be entitled to a commission of 1% of the
remitted, to compensate him or her for the cost of collection, filing returns
and supplying information to the Department of Revenue, but in no event shall
any commission be allowed on any tax not remitted when due.
   (H)   Failure to pay or file; penalties and interest.
      (1)   Failure to pay or remit the tax or to file the remittance return
required by this section shall be subject to the following penalties and
interest:
         (a)   Any tax not paid or remitted when due shall bear interest at the
rate of 2% per month, or fraction thereof, until the tax is paid or remitted;
         (b)   In addition to any interest charged, who fails to pay or remit
the tax when due shall be subject to a late penalty of 10% of such tax; and
         (c)   In addition to any interest or penalty charged above, any person
who fails to file a remittance return when due shall be subject to a late
filing penalty of 10% of the total tax liability due for the reporting period.
      (2)   Where the failure to pay or to remit the tax or to file the
remittance return, in a timely manner is due to reasonable cause beyond the
control of the person charged with filling and paying the tax, the penalties
described in divisions (H)(1)(b) and (H)(1)(c) above may be waived by the
Department of Treasury.
   (I)   Recordkeeping. Every distributor and every retail dealer required to
collect and remit the tax imposed herein shall keep accurate and complete books
and records of his or her business of selling vehicle fuel, including the
maintenance of all invoices and other source documents. Every purchaser or user
shall keep accurate and complete books and records of his or her purchases and
uses of vehicle fuel in the village.
   (J)   Sales and uses presumed taxable; burden of proof. It shall be presumed
that all sales and uses of vehicle fuel in the village are subject to tax under
this section until the contrary is established. The burden of proving that a
sale or use is not taxable hereunder shall be upon the distributor, retail
dealer, purchaser or user so claiming.
   (K)   Exemptions. The tax imposed by this section shall not apply to the
following sales or uses of vehicle fuel:
      (1)   Sale by a distributor to another distributor holding a valid
registration certificate;
      (2)   Sale by a distributor to a retailer of vehicle fuel whose place of
business is outside the village;
      (3)   Sale or use for purposes other than for propulsion or operation of
a vehicle;
      (4)   Sale to or use by “transportation agency”, as defined in the
Regional Transportation Authority Act, which is operated by, receiving a grant
from or has a service agreement with the Regional Transportation Authority or
any of its service boards;
      (5)   Sale or use to the extent the tax imposed by this section would
violate the state’s or United States Constitution;
      (6)   Sale to or use by the federal government or any state or local
governmental body; and
      (7)   Sale to or use by any air, common carrier, certified by the carrier
to be used for consumption, shipment or storage in the conduct of its business
as an air common carrier, for a flight destined for a destination outside the
United States.
(Ord. 91-164, passed 9-3-1991; Ord. 91-165, passed 10-1-1991; Ord. 08-458,
passed 12-15-2008; Ord. 11-517, passed 2-14-2011; Ord. 15-046, passed 11-2-
2015)
§ 35.032 LANDFILL WASTE TAX.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as “The
Village of Dolton Landfill Waste Tax Act”.
   (B)   Landfill waste tax. A tax imposed upon every cubic yard of waste
disposed of in any landfill facility within the village.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT. The department of the Village Clerk of the Village of Dolton.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, society, foundation, institution,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint adventure, public or
private corporation, or a receiver, executor, trustee, conservator or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Dolton, Illinois.
      WASTE. As determined from time to time by the State and Federal
Environmental Protection Agencies and applicable state and federal laws.
   (D)   Amount of tax; payment; exemption; collector’s fee.
      (1)   This tax which is hereby levied and imposed upon the disposition of
all waste disposed of at any landfill facility within the village shall be
$0.80 per cubic yard.
      (2)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax is
to be borne by the person who disposes of said off-site generate waste.
      (3)   The tax hereby levied shall be in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the licensee of any landfill facility to
secure said tax from the persons who dispose of the waste. Each person required
to collect the tax levied by this section shall secure said tax at the time of
disposal of the waste at the landfill facility.
      (5)   The village as the receiver of said tax hereby exempts itself from
the payment of said tax.
      (6)   The licensee of the landfill facility is hereby authorized to
deduct a reasonable collector’s fee, not to exceed $0.05 per cubic yard.
   (E)   Books and records. The Village Collector, or any person certified by
Collector as representative, may enter the premises of any landfill facility
for inspection and examination of books and records in order to effectuate the
proper administration of this section and to assure the enforcement of the
collection of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent,
hinder or interfere with the Village Collector or the designated authorized
deputy or representative in the discharge of duties in the performance of this
section. It shall be the duty of said owner to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the Village Collector, or authorized deputy or
representative shall at all times have full access, which records shall include
a daily sheet showing the user and the number of cubic yards per deposit.
   (F)   Transmittal of tax revenue. The licensee of any landfill facility
shall file tax returns showing tax receipts received during each monthly period
upon forms prescribed by the Village Collector. At the time of filing said tax
return, the licensee shall pay to the Village Collector all taxes due for the
period to which the tax return applies.
   (G)   Collection. Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax, interest
thereon or penalties as herein provided, the Village Attorney shall, upon the
request of the Village Collector, bring or cause to be brought an action to
enforce the payment of the said tax on behalf of the village in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (H)   Proceeds of tax and fines. All proceeds resulting from the imposition
of the tax under this section, including penalties, shall be paid to the
treasury of the village.
   (I)   Interest and penalties. In the event of failure by a person to pay to
the Village Clerk the tax required hereunder, when the same shall become due,
interest shall accumulate and be due upon said tax at the rate of 1% per month
commencing as of the first day following the date that the deed was recorded or
registered or when the assignment of beneficial interest was accepted by the
trustee. In addition, a penalty of 10% of the tax and interest due shall be
assessed and collected against any person who shall fail to pay the tax imposed
by this section.
   (J)   Civil liability for tax. Whenever any person shall fail to pay any
taxes herein provided, or any purchaser or grantee or assignee shall accept a
conveyance where the tax has not been paid, said person, purchaser, grantee or
assignee shall be liable to the village for such tax together with interest and
penalties. Village may bring an action to enforce payment of said tax including
interest and penalty in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 93-221, passed 8-3-1993) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.033 MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX.
   (A)   General utility tax.
      (1)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as “The
Village of Dolton Municipal Utility Tax Act”.
      (2)   Municipal utility tax. A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in
the following occupations or privileges:
         (a)   Persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages by
means of electricity, as per division (B) below; and
         (b)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the village, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts
therefrom.
      (3)   Tax exemption. No tax is imposed by this section with respect to
any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity, or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
section for such transactions as they are or may become subject to taxation
under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, being 35
ILCS 120/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, authorized by § 0-11-1 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, approved 5-29-1961, as amended.
      (4)   Additional tax. Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of
money or value of products or services furnished to the municipality by the
taxpayer, or compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public
places, or installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of
poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer’s
business.
      (5)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (A), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the transmission of
messages, or for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas or
electricity for use or consumption and not for resale, as the case may be; and
for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property
of every kind and material and for all services rendered therewith; and shall
be determined without deduction on account of the cost of the service, product
or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost of any
other expense whatsoever. The term GROSS RECEIPTS shall not include any charges
added to customers’ bills pursuant to the provisions of §§ 9-221 or 9-222 of
the state’s Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended, or any other separately stated charge added to customers’
bills in respect of any tax or other governmental impositions.
         TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. In addition to the usual and popular meaning of
person to person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration, of services or facilities (whether owned or leased), or both, to
persons in connection with the transmission of messages where such persons do
not, in turn, receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not
include such furnishing of services or facilities to persons for the
transmission of messages to the extent that any such services or facilities for
the transmission of messages are furnished for a consideration, by such persons
to other persons, for the transmission of messages.
         PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock, company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of the state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      (6)   Computation of taxes due. The tax provided for herein shall be
based on the gross receipts, as herein defined, actually paid to the taxpayer
for services billed on or after 9-1-1993.
      (7)   Reporting of taxes due.
         (a)   On or before 12-31-1993, such taxpayer shall make a return to
the Village Collector for the months of September, October and November, 1993
stating:
            1.   His, her or its name;
            2.   His, her or its principal place of business;
            3.   The gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed;
            4.   The amount of tax; and
            5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
         (b)   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the Village Collector for a corresponding
three-month period.
         (c)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the Village Collector, the amount of tax
herein imposed; provided that, in connection with any return the taxpayer may,
if he, she or it so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his, she or its
total billings of business subject to the tax during the period for which the
return is made (exclusive of any amounts previously billed), with prompt
adjustments of later payments based upon any difference between such billings
and the taxable gross receipts.
      (8)   Payment of taxes not due under ordinance. If it shall appear that
an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under the provisions of this
section, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then
such amount shall be credited against any tax due or to become due under this
section from the taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that, no
amounts erroneously paid more than three years prior to the filing of a claim
therefrom shall be so credited.
      (9)   Action to recover taxes due. No action to recover any amount of tax
due under the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three
years after the due date of such amount.
   (B)   Electricity based upon kilowatt-hour usage of individual customers.
      (1)   Tax imposed. Pursuant to § 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code
(65 ILCS 5/8-11-2) and any and all other applicable authority, a tax is imposed
upon the privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase of
retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the village,
calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser.
      (2)   Exceptions. None of the taxes authorized by this section may be
imposed with respect to any transaction interstate commerce or otherwise to the
extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the state or
any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any person engaged in the business
of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling or transmitting gas, water or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this section for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provision s of the Home Rule Municipal
Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1 as now or hereafter
amended; nor shall any tax authorized by this section be imposed upon any
person engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in
like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the,
same class in the municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or
operated, or exercising the same privilege within the municipality.
      (3)   Additional taxes. Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes
levied upon the taxpayer or its business.
      (4)   Collection. The tax authorized by this section shall be collected
from the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in the state
who delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt
of the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser
and if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
section and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the municipality by such person delivering the
electricity; provided, the person delivering electricity shall be allowed
credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity, the charges for which
are written off as uncollectible. Persons delivering electricity shall collect
the tax from the purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for
delivering the electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be
authorized to add to such gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to
reimburse the person delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping
records, billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the municipality upon request. If the person delivering
electricity fails to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser
shall be required to pay the tax directly to the municipality in the manner
prescribed by the municipality. Persons delivering electricity who file returns
pursuant to this section shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the
municipality the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
      (5)   Reports to municipality.
         (a)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer including
taxpayers who have not paid the tax imposed by this section to a person
delivering electricity as set forth in division (B)(4) above and who are not
otherwise exempted from paying such shall make a return to the Village
Treasurer for the preceding month stating:
            1.   His or her name;
            2.   His or her principal place of business;
            3.   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during
the month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
            4.   Amount of tax; and
            5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
         (b)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that, in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
kilowatt-hour usage.
      (6)   Credit for over-payment.
         (a)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who made
the erroneous payment; provided that, no amounts erroneously paid more than one
year prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
         (b)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions
of this section shall be commenced more than four years after the due date of
such amount.
      (7)   Severability. In the event that Public Act 90-561 is declared
unconstitutional, or if division (B)(1) above is voided by court action, the
provisions of Ord. 93-218 and 93-222, as amended by Ord. 94-241 (commonly known
as the Municipal Utility Tax) shall remain in effect in all respects as if they
had never been amended by this division (B), and any amounts paid to the city
by any person delivering electricity pursuant to this division (B) shall be
deemed to have been paid pursuant to the Gross Receipts Utility Tax as it
existed prior to the passage of this division (B).
(Ord. 93-222, passed 8-3-1993; Ord. 94-241, passed 3-16-1994; Ord. 99-117,
passed 7-20-1999; Ord. 01-177, passed 11-19-2001; Ord. 04-238, passed 1-5-2004;
Ord. 04-241, passed 4-5-2004; Ord. 11-540, passed 11-7-2011; Ord. 12-549,
passed 1-17-2012; Ord. 17-006, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 35.034 MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX.
   (A)   Short title. The tax imposed by this section shall be known as the
“Municipal Gas Use Tax” and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed
by the village, the state or any other municipal corporation or political
subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. A public utility as defined in § 3-105 of the Public
Utilities Act.
      PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT. The Public Utilities Act, as amended (220 ILCS 5/1-
101 et seq.).
      RETAIL PURCHASER. Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
      SALE AT RETAIL. Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term RETAILER means any
person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas.
   (C)   Tax.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, a tax is imposed on
the privilege of using or consuming gas in the village that is purchased in a
sale at retail at the rate of $0.05 per therm.
      (2)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is
on the retail purchaser, and nothing in this section shall be construed to
impose a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling
or transporting gas.
      (3)   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser’s premises, to the public utility designated
to collect the tax pursuant to division (D) below on or before the payment due
date of the public utility’s bill first reflecting the tax, or directly to the
Village Treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the second month following
the month in which the gas is delivered to the retail purchaser if no public
utility has been designated to collect the tax pursuant to division (D) below
or if the gas is delivered by a person other than a public utility so
designated.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impose a tax upon any
person, business or activity which, under the constitutions of the United
States or state, may not be made the subject of taxation by the village.
      (5)   A person who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay
the tax imposed by this section with respect to the use or consumption of the
gas, but who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the Village Treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the second
month following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
      (6)   The tax shall apply to gas for which the delivery to the retail
purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after 2-1-2012.
      (7)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this section, whether as a result of mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment or subject to a refund if no such tax is due or to become
due; provided that, no amounts erroneously paid more than three years prior to
the filing of a claim therefore shall be so credited or refunded.
      (8)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
      (9)   To prevent multiple taxation, the use of gas in the village by a
retail purchaser shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section of the
gross receipts from the sale at retail of such gas to the retail purchaser are
properly subject to a tax imposed upon the seller of such gas pursuant to the
village’s municipal utility tax, §
35.033(A) of this chapter, as amended from time to time, authorized pursuant to
§ 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-2).
   (D)   Collection of tax by public utility. The Mayor, Village Treasurer,
Village Manager and Village Attorney are each authorized to enter into a
contract for collection of the tax imposed by this section with any public
utility providing gas service in the village. The contract shall include and
substantially conform with the following provisions which is attached to the
ordinance codified herein and made a part hereof:
      (1)   The public utility will collect the tax from retail purchasers as
an independent contractor;
      (2)   The public utility will remit collected taxes to the Village
Treasurer no more often than once each month;
      (3)   The public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax
collections a service fee equal to 3% of the amounts collected and timely
remitted to the Village Treasurer;
      (4)   The public utility shall not be responsible to the village for any
tax not actually collected from a retail purchaser; and
      (5)   Such additional terms as the parties may agree upon.
   (E)   Books and records. Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and
records, including original source documents and books of entry, denoting the
activities or transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise to any tax
liability or exemption under this section. All such books and records shall, at
all times during business hours, be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
(Ord. 12-550, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 35.035 CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   (1)   Beginning 1-1-2020, a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling cannabis at retail in the village, other
than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program
Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from such
sales made in the course of that business.
      (2)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
§ 8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22), and is in
addition to any and all other taxes and charges imposed.
   (B)   (1)   The tax imposed by this section, and all civil penalties that
may be assessed, as an incident thereto, shall be remitted by such retailer to
the state’s Department of Revenue. Any tax required to be collected pursuant
to. or as authorized by this section and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted, to the Department of Revenue, shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
      (2)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department of Revenue. The Department shall have full power to administer and
enforce the provisions of this section.
      (3)   The failure to timely collect or remit all taxes due pursuant to
this section is a violation and may be subject to penalties.
(Ord. 19-021, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 35.036 PACKAGE LIQUOR TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      PACKAGE LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENT. A place of business in which all or a
portion of the premises is used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in
original package for consumption off the premises where sold.
      RETAILER. Any person, firm or entity having a sufficient proprietary
interest in conducting a business which sells package liquor.
   (B)   A tax in addition to all other taxes is hereby levied and imposed upon
the privilege of purchasing alcoholic retail alcoholic liquor at retail at any
package liquor establishment at the rate of 2% of the purchase price exclusive
of any other tax charged for such item of alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of such tax shall
be borne by the purchaser of taxable alcoholic liquor.
   (D)   All retailers shall have the duty to collect and account for the tax
imposed in this section from each purchaser at the time that the consideration
for such purchase is paid. Such retailer shall be obligated to the village for
the collection and remittance of such tax.
   (E)   The owner and operator of each package liquor establishment within the
village shall further have the duty to maintain complete and accurate books,
records and accounts showing the gross receipts for sale of alcoholic liquor
and the taxes collected each day which shall be made available to the village
for examination and for audit upon reasonable notice during customary business
hours.
   (F)   All retailers shall pay to the village all taxes collected pursuant to
this section. A sworn monthly return shall be filed with the office of the
Village Clerk in a format prescribed by the village containing such information
as the village may reasonably require, which return shall be filed by the
twentieth day of the month next succeeding the month for which the return is
made and shall be accompanied by payment of all taxes due and owing for the
month covered by such return. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at 1.5% per
month.
   (G)   Payment and collection of such tax and any late payment penalty may be
enforced by the village by commencing an action in a court of competent
jurisdiction. In addition, the failure to collect, account for, and pay over
said tax and any late payment penalty shall be cause for suspension or
revocation of any village license issued for such facility in addition to any
and all other penalties set forth in the village code.
(Ord. 17-023, passed 8-3-2017)
§ 35.037 AMUSEMENTS (PUSH TAX).
   (A)   Purpose. The provisions of this section, except as otherwise provided,
shall apply to all amusements as hereinafter defined, whether specifically
licensed or regulated under other provisions of this code or other ordinances,
or not.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      AMUSEMENT.
         (a)   Any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance,
motion picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo,
athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition for public entertainment,
including, without being limited to, boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing,
swimming, racing or riding on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball,
softball, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games, bowling,
billiard and pool games.
         (b)   Any entertainment offered for public participation, including,
without being limited to, dancing, carnival, amusement park rides and games,
bowling, billiard and pool games, or any video gaming terminal.
      PERSON. Any natural individual that participates in an amusement,
including a firm, organization, society, foundation, institution, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company,
public or private corporation, receiver, executor, trustee or other
representative appointed by order of any court, or any other entity recognized
by law.
      PLAY. Each individual push of the video gaming terminal which initiates
the simulation provided by the video gaming terminal. play shall not include
the push of individual wager amounts, selection of types of games on the video
gaming terminal or entry of any information or printing of winning receipts.
      TERMINAL OPERATOR. Any individual, partnership, corporation or limited
liability company that is licensed under the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et
seq., and that owns, services and maintains video gaming terminals for
placement in licensed establishments, licensed truck stop establishments,
licensed large truck stop establishments, licensed fraternal establishments or
licensed veterans establishments.
      VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including, but not
limited to, video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the state’s
Gaming Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
   (C)   Amusement tax imposed.
      (1)   Push tax.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, an amusement tax
is imposed upon any person who participates in the play of a video gaming
terminal that takes place within the jurisdictional boundaries of the village.
         (b)   The rate of the tax shall be equal to $0.01 per play on a video
gaming terminal.
         (c)   The terminal operator of a video gaming terminal may separately
itemize and charge each person who plays a video gaming terminal.
      (2)   Tax additional. The tax imposed in this section is in addition to
all other taxes imposed by the state or any municipal corporation or political
subdivision thereof.
      (3)   Registration.
         (a)   Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal(s) located in
the village shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the village no
later than 30 days after commencing such business or 30 days after the
effective date of this section imposing the push tax, whichever occurs later.
         (b)   The application shall be submitted to the village on the forms
provided by the village and contain such information as reasonably required by
the village to impose, collect and audit all amounts related to the push tax.
      (4)   Collection, payment and accounting.
         (a)   It shall be the joint and several duty of every terminal
operator of a video gaming terminal(s) to secure from each person participating
in the play of a video gaming terminal the push tax imposed by this section.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, it shall be presumed that the
amount of the push tax imposed on each person, unless the taxpayer or tax
collector provides otherwise with books, records or other documentary evidence,
has been collected from the person by the terminal operator.
         (c)   Push tax payments accompanied by tax returns prescribed by the
village shall be remitted to the village on or before the twentieth day of the
month following the month in which payment for the push tax is made.
         (d)   Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal who is
required to collect the push tax by this section shall be considered a tax
collector for the village. All push tax amounts collected shall be held by the
terminal operator as trustee for and on behalf of the village. The failure of
the operator to collect the tax shall not excuse or release the person from the
obligation to pay the tax.
         (e)   The ultimate incidence of the push tax shall remain on the
person and shall never be shifted to the terminal operator.
         (f)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in order to
permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the village, no person shall be
entitled to a refund of, or credit for, the push tax imposed by this section
unless the person files a claim for a refund or credit within one year after
the date on which the push tax was paid or remitted to the village.
         (g)   The terminal operator of any video gaming terminal(s) shall be
subject to audit, inspection and record keeping provisions of this code.
         (h)   It shall be unlawful for any terminal operator and/or person to
prevent, hinder or interfere with the village’s officials, employees and/or
agents designated to discharge their respective duties in the performance and
enforcement of the provisions of this section.
         (i)   It is the duty of every terminal operator of a video gaming
terminal(s) to keep accurate and complete books and records to which the
village’s officials, employees and/or agents will at all times have full
access.
      (5)   Rules and regulations; authorized. The village is authorized to
adopt, promulgate and enforce any additional rules and regulations pertaining
to the interpretation, collection, administration and enforcement of this
section.
      (6)   Application of village code. Any citation under this section may be
in addition to any other citations issued by the village under any and all
applicable sections of the village code.
(Ord. 21-021, passed 10-31-2021) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.038 GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling groceries at retail in the municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this section
is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to
the provisions of § 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   (B)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the municipality
in the business of making sales of service, who as an incident to making those
sales of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The
rate of this tax shall be the same rate identified in division (A) above. The
imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of §
8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   (C)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of
Revenue of the state. The state’s Department of Revenue shall have full power
to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 25-007, passed 8-4-2025)
“INTERESTED PARTIES” REGISTRIES
§ 35.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act (65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et
seq.), as amended from time to time.
   INTERESTED PARTY(S). Any individual or organization or entity registered in
a specific registry who has registered in such registry and whose registration
has not been terminated in accordance with these registration rules.
   REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. A redevelopment project area that:
      (1)   Is intended to qualify (or has subsequently qualified) as a
“redevelopment project area” under the Act; and
      (2)   Is subject to the “interested parties” registry requirements of the
Act.
   REGISTRATION FORM. The form appended to these registration rules or such
revised form as may be approved by the village consistent with the requirements
of the Act.
   REGISTRY or REGISTRIES. Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the village pursuant to § 11-74.4-4.2
of the Act for the redevelopment project area.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Dolton.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 35.046 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The village shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area, whether existing as of the date of the adoption of
these rules or hereafter established. The village shall establish a new
registry whenever it has identified an area for study and possible designation
as a redevelopment project area. In any event the process of establishing the
new registry must be completed prior to the deadline for sending any of the
notices required by §
35.054 of this chapter or any other notices required by the Act with respect to
the proposed redevelopment project area.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 35.047 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The registries shall be maintained by the Village Clerk or his or her
designee.
   (B)   In the event the village determines that an individual other than the
Clerk should maintain the registries, the village may transfer the
responsibility for maintaining the registries to such other department;
provided that, the village:
      (1)   Gives prior written notice to all interested parties not less than
30 days prior to such transfer; and
      (2)   Published notice of such transfer in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 35.048 REGISTRATION BY RESIDENTS.
   An individual seeking to register as an interested person with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to the
Village Clerk.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 35.049 REGISTRATION BY ORGANIZATIONS.
   An organization seeking to register as an interested person with respect to
a redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to
the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 35.050 DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   All individuals and organizations whose registration form and
supporting documentation complies with these registration rules shall be
registered in the applicable registry within ten business day of the Village
Clerk’s receipt of all such documents. The Clerk shall provide written notice
to the registrant confirming such registration. Upon registration interested
parties shall be entitled to receive all notices and documents required to be
delivered under these rules or as otherwise required under the Act with respect
to the applicable redevelopment project area.
   (B)   If the Village Clerk determines that a registrant’s registration form
and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not comply with these
registration rules, the Clerk shall give written notice to the registrant
specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to correct any
defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting documentation.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 35.051 RENEWAL AND TERMINATION.
   (A)   (1)   An interested person’s registration shall remain effective for a
period of three years. At any time after such three-year period, the Village
Clerk may provide written notice by regular mail to the interested person
stating that such registration shall terminate unless the interested person
renews such registration with 30 days of the Clerk’s mailing of written notice.
To renew such registration, the interested person shall, within such 30-day
period, complete and submit the same registration form then required of initial
registrants operations in the village. The registration of all individuals and
organizations whose registration form is submitted in a timely manner and
complies with these regulation rules shall be renewed for an additional,
consecutive three-year period.
      (2)   If the Village Clerk determines that a registrant’s renewal
registration form is incomplete or does not comply with these registration
rules, the Clerk shall give written notice to the registrant at the address
specified in the renewal registration form submitted by such registrant,
specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to correct any
defects and resubmit a new registration form within 30 days of receipt of the
Clerk’s notice.
   (B)   If all defects are not corrected within 30 days of the interested
person’s receipt of the Village Clerk’s notice, the interested person’s
registration shall be terminated. Any interested person whose registration is
terminated shall be entitled to register again as if a first-time registrant.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 35.052 AMENDMENT OF REGISTRY.
   (A)   An interested party may amend its registration by giving written
notice to the Village Clerk by certified mail of any of the following:
      (1)   Change in address for notice purposes;
      (2)   In the case of organizations, a change in the name of the contact
person; and
      (3)   A termination of registration.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notice, the Clerk shall revise the applicable
registry accordingly.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 35.053 AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal
business hours. The registry shall include the name, address and telephone
number of each interested person and for organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 35.054 NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES.
   Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the Act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project
area:
   (A)   Pursuant to § 74.4-5(a) of the Act, notice of the availability of a
proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including how to obtain
this information, such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period
of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public hearing for the
proposed redevelopment plan;
   (B)   Pursuant to § 74-4-5(a) of the Act, notice of changes to proposed
redevelopment plans that do not add additional parcels of property to the
proposed redevelopment project area, substantially affect the general land uses
proposed in the redevelopment plan, substantially change the nature of or
extend the life of the redevelopment project or increase the number of low or
very low income households to be displaced from the redevelopment project area;
provided that, measured from the time of creation of the redevelopment project
area the total displacement of households will exceed ten; such notice shall be
sent by mail not later than ten days following the village’s adoption by
ordinance of such changes;
   (C)   Pursuant to § 74.4-5(d)(9) of the Act for redevelopment plans or
projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten or more
inhabited residential units or that contain 75 or more inhabited residential
units, notice of the availability of the annual report described by § 74.4-5
(d), including how to obtain the annual report; such notice shall be sent by
mail within a reasonable period of time after completion of the certified audit
report; and
   (D)   Pursuant to § 74.4-6(e) of the Act, notice of the preliminary public
meeting required under the Act for a proposed redevelopment project area that
will result in the displacement of ten or more inhabited residential units or
which will contain 75 or more inhabited residential units; such notice shall be
sent by certified mail not less than 15 days before the date of such
preliminary public meeting.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 35.055 NON-INTERFERENCE.
   These registration rules shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise
interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to
register for receipt of information to which they are entitled under the Act.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 35.056 AMENDMENT OF REGISTRATION RULES.
   These registration rules may be amended by the village subject to and
consistent with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 05-280, passed 1-3-2005)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 35.070 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   It is the policy of the village to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while
meeting the daily cash flow demands of the village and conforming to all state
and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.071 SCOPE.
   This policy includes all funds governed by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.072 PRUDENCE.
   (A)   Investments shall be made with judgement and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the “prudent person” standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.073 OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
      (1)   Legality: conformance with federal, state and other legal
requirements;
      (2)   Safety: preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
      (3)   Liquidity: maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
      (4)   Yield: attainment of market rates of return.
   (B)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness
in meeting the entity’s needs for safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification and its general performance.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.074 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the Treasurer who, under the delegation of the Board of
Trustees, shall establishment written procedures for the operation of the
investment program.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.075 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.076 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The Treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investments services.
   (B)   In addition, a list will also be maintained of approved security
brokers/dealers selected by creditworthiness.
   (C)   The list shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Illinois Public Treasurer’s Investment Pool;
      (2)   Heritage Community Bank; and
      (3)   South Holland Trust and Savings.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.077 AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in state
statutes regarding the investment of public funds.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.078 COLLATERALIZATION.
   Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of deposit and the like)
in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form of collateral, witnessed
by a written agreement and held at an independent-third-party institution in
the name of the municipality.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.079 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the village, shall be conducted on a delivery-versus-payment
(DVP) basis. Securities will be held by an independent third-party custodian
designated by the Treasurer and evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a written
custodial agreement.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.080 DIVERSIFICATION.
   The village shall diversify its investments to the best of its ability based
on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those funds.
Diversification can be by type of investment, number of institutions invested
in and length of maturity.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.081 MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   (A)   (1)   To the extent possible, the village shall attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements.
      (2)   Unless matched to a specific cash flow, the village will not
directly invest in securities maturing more than one year from the date of
purchase.
   (B)   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding one year if the
maturity of such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with
the expected use of the finds.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.082 INTERNAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The Treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining an
internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of the village
are protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control structure shall
be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
   (B)   The internal controls shall address the following points:
      (1)   Control of collusion;
      (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
      (3)   Custodial safekeeping; and
      (4)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.083 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   This investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the
parameters specified within this policy.
   (B)   The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate of return during a
market/economic environment of stable interest rates.
   (C)   Portfolio performance should be compared to benchmarks with similar
maturity, liquidity and credit quality as the portfolio of the state’s Public
Treasurer’s Investment Pool.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.084 REPORTING.
   The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least monthly. The
report should be provided to the Board of Trustees and available on request.
The report should be in a format suitable for review by the general public. An
annual report should also be provided to the Board.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.085 MARKING TO MARKET.
   A statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the
Board of Trustees quarterly.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.086 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION.
   (A)   The investment policy shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the Treasurer and
any modifications made thereto must be approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 99-133, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty has been prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §
35.028 of this chapter, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $200, nor more
than $300, for the first offense, and not less than $300, nor more than $500,
for the second and each subsequent offense in any 180-day period; provided,
however, that, all actions seeking the imposition of fines only shall be filed
as “quasi-criminal” actions subject to the provisions set forth in the Code of
Civil Procedure, being 735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
      (2)   Repeated offenses in excess of three within any 180-day period may
also be punishable as a misdemeanor by incarceration in the County Jail for a
term not to exceed six months under the procedure set forth in § 1-2-1.1 of the
Illinois Municipal Code and under the provisions of the state’s Code of
Criminal Procedure in a separate proceeding. A separate and distinct offense
shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue
any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist after notification
thereof.
(1988 Code, § 3-2-4)
   (C)   If any such company, corporation or association fails to file the
report herein designated by the day required by §
35.029 of this chapter, or if the amount of rates aforesaid shall remain unpaid
after the day limited for the payment thereof, every such corporation, company
or association shall forfeit and pay to the village the sum of not less than
$5, nor more than $500, upon conviction for each and every offense; and, in
addition to such penalty, the village shall recover in an action in its name
and for its use against such corporation, company or association so failing to
make such report or pay such rates the full amount of the rates which may be
due under the provisions hereof.
(1988 Code, § 3-2-5)
   (D)   In addition to the provisions of §
35.030(E) of this chapter, the failure to submit a return as required by §
35.030 of this chapter shall be deemed to be an offense which shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. Each and every day that the person
fails to file a return shall be deemed to constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
   (E)   In addition to other provisions of §
35.032 of this chapter, any person found guilty in a court of competent
jurisdiction of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to
comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any provision of §
35.032 of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of
not less than $500, nor more than $1,000, for each offense.
   (F)   (1)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §
35.033(A) of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, and, in
addition thereto, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due.
      (2)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §
35.033(B) of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, and in addition
shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due. (See 65 ILCS 5/8-
11-2.)
   (G)   (1)   It shall be a violation of §
35.037 of this chapter for a terminal operator to fail to file a report within
the time prescribed in §
35.037 of this chapter.
         (a)   Report required. A terminal operator who falsely reports or
fails to report the amount of push tax due as required by §
35.037 of this chapter shall be in violation of §
35.037 of this chapter and is subject to the suspension and/or revocation of
their terminal operator license. All payments not remitted when due shall be
paid together with a penalty assessment on the unpaid balance at a rate of 1.5%
per month.
         (b)   Suspension or revocation of license. The Local Liquor
Commissioner or his or her designee shall have the power to suspend for not
more than 30 days or revoke any video gaming license issued under the
provisions of §
35.037 of this chapter for cause, or if he or she determines that a terminal
operator shall have violated any of the provisions of §
35.037 of this chapter, any of the statutes of the state or any other valid
ordinance or resolution enacted by the corporate authorities of the village.
However, no such license shall be revoked or suspended, except after the
holding of a public hearing by the Local Liquor Commissioner or his or her
designee. Ten days’ notice of the hearing shall be given to the terminal
operator. Alternatively, the terminal operator shall have the opportunity to
engage in a pre-hearing conference and agree to negotiated penalties rather
than proceed to a hearing.
         (c)   Fine imposed. In addition, any terminal operator violating the
provisions of §
35.037 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $250 for the first
offense, $500 for the second offense and $750 for a third offense and subject
to a revocation of any license to operate a video gaming terminal for the third
offense.
      (2)   Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
      (3)   It shall be deemed a violation of §
35.037 of this chapter for any person to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate
information to the village.
(Ord. passed 10-5-1976; Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Ord. 91-170, passed 11-26-1991;
Ord. 93-221, passed 8-3-1993; Ord. 12-549, passed 1-17-2012; Ord. 21-021,
passed 10-31-2021)
CHAPTER 36: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Surcharge imposed
   
36.002   Referendum
   
36.003   Majority vote
   
36.004   Definitions
   
36.005   Exemption list
   
36.006   Date surcharge imposed
   
36.007   Accounting and collection charge
   
36.008   Surcharge to be paid
   
36.009   Report to Village Treasurer
   
36.010   Incorrect surcharge
   
36.011   Time limit on recovery of surcharge
Emergency Telephone System Board
   
36.025   Creation
   
36.026   Function
   
36.027   Composition
   
36.028   Term of appointment
   
36.029   Vacancy
   
36.030   No compensation, except costs
   
36.031   Appointment of officers
   
36.032   Meetings
   
36.033   Powers and duties
   
36.034   Emergency Telephone System Fund
   
36.035   Expenditures
Cross-reference:
   Finance and Revenue; Taxation, see
Ch. 35
   Public Safety, see
Ch. 33
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001 SURCHARGE IMPOSED.
   A surcharge is hereby imposed, subject to the provisions of §
36.002 of this chapter, upon all telephone subscribers passed through
telecommunication carriers engaged in the business of transmitting messages by
means of electricity originating within the corporate limits of the village and
terminating within the state for funding of a 9-1-1 emergency telephone system.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-1) (Ord. 90-101, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 36.002 REFERENDUM.
   A referendum shall be placed by the Village Clerk on the 3-20-1990, ballot
for all legal voters residing in the village to vote upon the following
question:
 
Shall the village impose a surcharge not to exceed $1.25 per month per network connection, which surcharge will be added to the
monthly bill you receive for telephone or telecommunication charges for the purpose of installing a 9-1-1 emergency system?
 
                          yes                                      no
 
(1988 Code, § 4-12-2) (Ord. 90-101, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 36.003 MAJORITY VOTE.
   If a majority of the votes cast upon the question are in favor thereof, a
surcharge is hereby imposed at a rate not to exceed $1.25 per month per in-
service network connection, as hereinafter defined. A network connection shall
not be deemed to be in service where a subscriber’s account is uncollectible.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-3) (Ord. 90-101, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 36.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NETWORK CONNECTION. The number of voice grade communication channels
directly between a subscriber and a telecommunications carrier’s public
switched network without the intervention of any other telecommunications
carriers switched network which would be required to carry the subscriber’s
inter-premises traffic.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER.
      (1)   Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of the state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court engaged in
the business of transmitting messages by means of electricity.
      (2)   For the purposes of this subchapter, TELECOMMUNICATION CARRIER does
not include a cellular or other mobile communication carrier.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. The meaning ascribed to the term in § 8-11-2 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2 as now or hereafter amended.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-4) (Ord. 90-101, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 36.005 EXEMPTION LIST.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall provide any telecommunication carrier subject
to the surcharge with a certified list of those network connections assigned to
the village to be exempt from imposition of the surcharge.
   (B)   The certified list may be revised by the village on 60 days’ prior
written notice provided to the telecommunication carriers.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-5) (Ord. 90-101, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 36.006 DATE SURCHARGE IMPOSED.
   The surcharge shall be imposed on the first day of the month following the
expiration of 90 days from the date the Village Clerk certifies to the
individual telecommunication carriers subject to the surcharge that the
referendum referred to in §
36.002 of this chapter has passed.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-6) (Ord. 90-101, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 36.007 ACCOUNTING AND COLLECTION CHARGE.
   In lieu of the telecommunication carriers imposing a 3% accounting and
collection charge on its subscribers as permitted under the Act, each
telecommunications carrier is hereby authorized and instructed to recover said
accounting and collection charge by deducting 3% from the gross amount of
surcharge collected otherwise due and owing the village prior to remittance
under §
36.008 of this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-7) (Ord. 90-101, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 36.008 SURCHARGE TO BE PAID.
   The amount of surcharge collected by the telecommunications carrier shall be
paid to the particular municipality not later than 30 days after the surcharge
is collected, net of any network or other 9-1-1 or sophisticated 9-1-1 system
charges then due the particular telecommunication carrier, as shown on an
itemized bill and the 3% accounting and collection charge described in §
36.007 of this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-8) (Ord. 90-101, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 36.009 REPORT TO VILLAGE TREASURER.
   Simultaneously with the remittance described in §
36.008 of this chapter, each telecommunication carrier shall make a report to
the Village Treasurer for the period to which the remittance applies stating as
follows:
   (A)   The name of the telecommunication carrier;
   (B)   The telecommunication carrier’s principal place of business;
   (C)   The number of network connections to which the surcharge applies;
   (D)   The amount of surcharge due; and
   (E)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-9) (Ord. 90-101, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 36.010 INCORRECT SURCHARGE.
   If it shall appear that an amount of surcharge has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake
of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any
surcharge due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the
telecommunication carrier who made the erroneous payments; provided that, no
amounts erroneously paid more than three years prior to the filing of a claim
therefor shall be so credited. Ninety days prior notice shall be given to the
Emergency Telephone System Board on any credit against a surcharge due.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-10) (Ord. 90-101, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 36.011 TIME LIMIT ON RECOVERY OF SURCHARGE.
   No action to recover any amount of surcharge due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-11) (Ord. 90-101, passed 1-2-1990)
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD
§ 36.025 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Village Emergency Telephone System Board.
   (B)   The word BOARD, when used in this subchapter, shall be construed to
mean the Emergency Telephone System Board, also known as the ETSB.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-12) (Ord. 90-110, passed 3-27-1990)
§ 36.026 FUNCTION.
   The Emergency Telephone System Board (ETSB) will administer the 9-1-
1 program in accordance with the statutory provisions and rules relating
thereto.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-13) (Ord. 90-110, passed 3-27-1990)
§ 36.027 COMPOSITION.
   Said Board shall consist of five members as follows: one resident of the
village; the Fire Chief; the Police Chief; the Village Administrator; and a
member of the Board of Trustees of the village; and all of whom shall be
appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, based upon their ability or experience.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-14) (Ord. 90-110, passed 3-27-1990; Ord. 16-011, passed 3-
21-2016)
§ 36.028 TERMS OF APPOINTMENT.
   All appointments to the Board shall be for a term of three years. The term
shall begin on April 1 and end on March 30 of the third year or until their
respective successors are appointed and have qualified.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-15) (Ord. 90-110, passed 3-27-1990; Ord. 16-011, passed 3-
21-2016)
§ 36.029 VACANCY.
   In the event of the death or resignation of a member, the Village President,
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint a
replacement member to serve the remainder of the unexpired term of the member
who is being replaced.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-16) (Ord. 90-110, passed 3-27-1990)
§ 36.030 NO COMPENSATION, EXCEPT COSTS.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation; members shall be
reimbursed by the Fund for their actual and necessary expenses, incurred in
their duties as members of the Board; provided that:
   (A)   The expense is authorized by a majority of the Board prior to being
incurred; and
   (B)   Payment thereof is approved by a resolution of a majority of the
Board.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-17) (Ord. 90-110, passed 3-27-1990)
§ 36.031 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees
shall appoint a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary to serve for a
period of one year. Officers shall thereafter be appointed in the same manner
on May 1 of each year.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-18) (Ord. 90-110, passed 3-27-1990)
§ 36.032 MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Board shall be conducted pursuant to Robert’s Rules of
Order, and the Board and its members shall, at all times, be subject to the
state’s Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq. as now or hereafter
amended.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-19) (Ord. 90-110, passed 3-27-1990)
§ 36.033 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Board shall be as follows:
   (A)   Planning a 9-1-1 emergency telephone system;
   (B)   Coordinating and supervising the implementation, upgrading or
maintenance of the system, including the establishment of equipment
specifications and coding system;
   (C)   Receiving moneys from the surcharge imposed pursuant to the results of
the referendum election and 50 ILCS 750/0.01, and from any other source for
deposit into the Emergency Telephone System Fund;
   (D)   Authorizing all disbursement from the Fund;
   (E)   Hiring and paying the salary, on a temporary basis, of any staff
necessary for the implementation or upgrade of the system;
   (F)   Securing bonds and insurance for each individual Board member for the
discharge of their duties and receipt of funds; and
   (G)   Any and all other powers and duties delegated to the Board by the
Village President and Board of Trustees.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-20) (Ord. 90-110, passed 3-27-1990)
§ 36.034 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FUND.
   (A)   An Emergency Telephone System Fund will be established by the Board.
All moneys received by the Board, pursuant to the aforesaid surcharge, shall be
deposited into this Fund.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-21)
   (B)   The Village Treasurer shall be custodian of the Fund.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-22)
   (C)   All interest accruing on the Fund shall remain in the Fund.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-23)
(Ord. 90-110, passed 3-27-1990)
§ 36.035 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   No expenditures may be made from such Fund, except upon the direction
of the Board by resolution passed by a majority of all members of the Board.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-24)
   (B)   Expenditures may be made from the Fund only to pay for costs
associated with the following:
      (1)   The design of the emergency telephone system;
      (2)   The coding of an initial master street address guide data base and
update and maintenance thereof;
      (3)   The repayment of any moneys advanced for the implementation of the
system;
      (4)   The charges for automatic number identification and automatic
location identification equipment and maintenance, replacement and update
thereof;
      (5)   The non-recurring charges related to installation of the emergency
telephone system and the ongoing network charges; and
      (6)   Other products and services necessary for the implementation,
upgrade and maintenance of the system and any other purpose related to the
operation of the system, including costs attributable directly to the
construction, leasing or maintenance of any buildings or facilities or costs of
personnel attributable directly to the operation of the system. Costs
attributable directly to the operation of an emergency telephone system do not
include the costs of public safety agency personnel who are and equipment that
is dispatched in response to an emergency call.
(1988 Code, § 4-12-25)
(Ord. 90-110, passed 3-27-1990)
CHAPTER 37: GENERAL VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Meetings
   
37.002   Property acquisition by condemnation
   
37.003   Investigation and enforcement of rules
   
37.004   Comprehensive Plan
   
37.005   Juanita Newell Cook Scholarship Program
   
37.006   FOIA requests
   
37.007   Transparency policy; website
Unclaimed Property
   
37.020   Presumption of abandonment
   
37.021   Notice to owners
   
37.022   Sale of property
   
37.023   Revenue from property sales
   
37.024   Claims for property
Hazardous Substance and Material Incident Reimbursement
   
37.035   Definitions
   
37.036   Prohibited acts
   
37.037   Response authority
   
37.038   Liability for costs
   
37.039   Defenses
“Invest in Dolton”; Auctioning Vacant Homes to be Rehabilitated
   
37.050   Authorization and establishment
   
37.051   Procedures, rules and regulations
   
37.052   Funding
 
   
37.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Public notice.
      (1)   Public notice of the schedule of regular meetings of any board,
committee or commission of the village shall be given at the beginning of each
municipal year. Public notice of any special meeting, or of any rescheduled
regular or any reconvened meeting shall be given at least 24 hours before such
meeting. However, this requirement of public notice of reconvened meetings does
not apply to any case where the meeting is to be reconvened within 24 hours,
nor to any case where announcement of the time and place of the reconvened
meeting was made at the original meeting and there is no change in the agenda.
      (2)   Public notice shall be given by posting a copy of the notice at the
Village Hall. Copies of the notice of regular meetings and of the notice of any
special rescheduled or reconvened meeting will be supplied to any local
newspaper of general circulation or any local radio or television station that
has filed an annual request for such notice. Any such news media shall also be
given the same notice of all special, rescheduled or reconvened meetings in the
same manner as is given to members of the body; provided, such news media has
given the corporate authorities of the village an address within the village at
which such notice may be given.
   (B)   Schedule of meetings.
      (1)   In addition to the notice required by division (A) above, the
Village Clerk shall prepare and make available a schedule of the regular
meetings of all boards, committees or commissions of the village, listing the
time and places of such meetings.
      (2)   If a change is made in regular meeting dates, at least ten days’
notice of such change shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village. Notice of such change shall also be posted at the
Village Hall and shall also be supplied to those news media which have filed an
annual request for notice as provided in division (A) above.
(1988 Code, § 1-13-1)
§ 37.002 PROPERTY ACQUISITION BY CONDEMNATION.
   (A)   Eminent domain powers. The corporate authorities may exercise its
power of eminent domain to condemn property for any public purpose. A public
purpose shall exist if the property, after its acquisition, is useful,
advantageous or desirable for municipal purposes. The corporate authorities may
exercise their condemnation power for any public purpose authorized to a
municipal corporation by statute or any other public purpose which will be
useful, advantageous or desirable within its home rule powers as established by
ordinance. The corporate authorities shall commence such condemnation by an
ordinance or resolution which shall state the purpose or purposes for which the
property is to be acquired and shall be used.
   (B)   Procedure. In all cases where property is acquired or sought to be
acquired by condemnation, the procedure shall be like that provided for in an
Act to Provide for the Exercise of the Right of Eminent Domain, approved 4-10-
1872, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   (C)   Economically deteriorating areas. The corporate authorities have the
power to acquire and redevelop economically deteriorating areas within its
corporate limits.
(1988 Code, § 1-13-3) (Ord. passed 5-30-1978)
§ 37.003 INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   (A)   (1)   The President and Board of Trustees (hereinafter “authorities”)
may investigate the enforcement of the municipal ordinances, rules and
regulations, and the action, conduct and efficiency of all officers, agents and
employees of the municipality.
      (2)   In the conduct of such investigations the village authorities may
hold public hearings.
      (3)   Each member of the village authorities shall have power to
administer oaths, and the Village Clerk, by order of the village authorities,
shall issue subpoenas to secure the attendance and testimony of witnesses and
the production of books and papers relevant to such investigations and to any
hearing before the village authorities or any proper member thereof.
   (B)   Any circuit court of jurisdiction, upon application of the village
authorities, or authorized member thereof, may in its discretion compel the
attendance of witnesses, the production of books and papers and the giving of
testimony before the village authorities or any member thereof, by attachment
for contempt or otherwise in the same manner as the production of evidence may
be compelled before the court.
(Ord. 90-104, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 37.004 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Approval; adoption. The Comprehensive Plan is hereby approved. The
Comprehensive Plan is hereby adopted as the official comprehensive plan of the
village.
   (B)   Public inspection. The Comprehensive Plan shall be available for
public inspection.
(Ord. 13-029, passed 12-16-2013)
§ 37.005 JUANITA NEWELL COOK SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.
   (A)   Subject to donation and/or receipt of sufficient funds, the Juanita
Newell Cook Rewarding Dolton’s Students Educational Scholarship Program is
established. The Scholarship Program is to be administered by the Board of
Trustees of the village.
   (B)   There is hereby established an independent commission to be
responsible for the oversight and administration of the Juanita Newell Cook
Rewarding Dolton’s Students Educational Scholarship Program to be known as the
Juanita Newell Cook Rewarding Dolton’s Students Educational Scholarship
Commission. The Commission shall promulgate rules, regulations and procedures
necessary to accomplish the stated purpose.
   (C)   The Juanita Newell Cook Rewarding Dolton’s Students Education
Scholarship Program shall be funded, in whole or in part, from donations from
residents, business owners and friends of the village.
   (D)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to establish and implement
a mechanism via which a contribution of $1 may be added to and/or included with
the payment of any water and/or sewer account bills being paid by village
residents and business owners, and for the receipt of other contributions of
varying amounts. All monetary contributions, from any and all sources, shall be
held in a segregated escrow account established solely for the purpose of
administering the Juanita Newell Cook Rewarding Dolton’s Students Education
Scholarship Program. Said scholarship account program shall be audited
annually.
   (E)   A resident of the village who receives a high school diploma from a
village school district or an accredited non-public school in the village in or
after the 2007-2008 school year and who otherwise meets the award
qualifications, is eligible to receive the Juanita Newell Cook Rewarding
Dolton’s Students Educational Scholarship under the program if the student is
accepted by and enrolled to attend an approved post-secondary eligible
institution, full time. ELIGIBLE INSTITUTION, for purposes of this section,
means a degree or certificate granting accredited post-secondary education:
      (1)   Public or private college or university;
      (2)   Junior college or community college; and/or
      (3)   Vocational or technical educational program.
   (F)   In addition to the requirements division (E) above, to be eligible for
a scholarship under this program, an individual must:
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United States or has been classified as a
permanent resident alien of the United States immigration and naturalization
service;
      (2)   Have a cumulative high school “C” grade point average;
      (3)   Have satisfactorily met the entrance requirements for admission as
a full-time student to an eligible institution;
      (4)   Have received a high school diploma from a village school district
or an accredited non- public school in the village or the high school
equivalency diploma not more than one-year period preceding the submittal of
the scholarship application;
      (5)   Have not received a scholarship under this program for more than
the equivalent of eight semesters; and
      (6)   Have not been convicted of a felony, or any crime relating to
assault, physical injury or death.
   (G)   The scholarship amount shall be $500 per student in any fiscal year,
and the number of scholarships awarded shall be based upon the availability of
scholarship funds. The Board of Trustees may adjust the amount of the Juanita
Newell Cook Rewarding Dolton’s Students Educational Scholarship available to
eligible students based upon its determination of available resources, but the
Board shall not increase or decrease in an amount by more than 5% in any fiscal
year.
   (H)   The Juanita Newell Cook Rewarding Dolton’s Students Educational
Scholarship Program is being established in honor of the life and work of the
late Juanita Newell Cook. A copy of the proclamation issued in honor the life
of Juanita Newell Cook is attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a
part hereof as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 07-421, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 37.006 FOIA REQUESTS.
   The Rules and Regulations for Freedom of Information Act Requests and
Responses, attached to the ordinance codified herein, is hereby adopted by the
village. All village officials and employees shall be subject to the attached
rules and regulations and the penalties and relief stated therein. Copies of
the rules and regulations shall be distributed to all village employees and
officials.
(Ord. 23-002, passed 4-24-2023)
§ 37.007 TRANSPARENCY POLICY; WEBSITE.
   The village’s Transparency Policy, attached to the ordinance codified
herein, and made a part hereof is hereby adopted by the village’s Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 17-003, passed 3-20-2017)
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 37.020 PRESUMPTION OF ABANDONMENT.
   The following property held by the village is presumed abandoned:
   (A)   Any deposit made to the village in compliance with an ordinance of the
village requiring said deposit unless the owner has, within three years:
      (1)   Increased or decreased the amount of the deposit;
      (2)   Corresponded in writing with the village concerning the deposit;
and
      (3)   Otherwise indicated an interest in the deposit as evidenced by a
memorandum on file with the village.
   (B)   Any sum payable on checks issued by the village on which the village
is liable for payment which has been outstanding for a period of three years
from the date of its issuance unless the owner has, within three years:
      (1)   Corresponded in writing with the village concerning it; or
      (2)   Otherwise indicated an interest as evidenced by a memorandum on
file with the village.
   (C)   All funds and intangible personal property held by the village in a
fiduciary capacity for the benefit of another unless the owner has, within
three years after it becomes payable or distributable:
      (1)   Accepted payment of principal or interest;
      (2)   Corresponded in writing concerning the property; or
      (3)   Indicated an interest in the property as evidenced by a memorandum
on file with the village.
   (D)   All other funds and intangible personal property not otherwise covered
by this subchapter, except for personal property held by the village’s Police
Department pursuant to 765 ILCS 1030/1 through 1030/5 as now or hereafter
amended, and property of which custody and control is prescribed by Art. II of
Ch. 4 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended, and held for the owner by the village, and that has remained
unclaimed for a period of more than three years.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-10-1) (Ord. 93-215, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 37.021 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (A)   Notice required.
      (1)   After the funds or intangible personal property held by the village
is presumed abandoned, in accordance with the provisions of §
37.020 of this chapter, the Village Clerk shall cause notice to be published
once in an English language newspaper of general circulation in the county in
the state in which is located the last known address of any person to be named
in the notice.
      (2)   If no address is listed or if the address is outside the state, the
notice shall be published in an English language newspaper of general
circulation in the village.
   (B)   Contents of notice. The published notice shall be entitled “Notice of
Names of Persons Appearing to be Owners of Abandoned Property” and shall
contain:
      (1)   The names, in alphabetical order and last known addresses, if any,
of persons listed in its report and entitled to notice within the county as
hereinbefore specified;
      (2)   A statement that information concerning the amount or description
of the property and the name and address of the holder may be obtained by any
persons possessing an interest in the property by addressing an inquiry to the
Village Clerk; and
      (3)   A statement that if proof of claim is not presented by the owner to
the Village Clerk and if the owner’s right to receive the property is not
established to the Village Clerk’s satisfaction within 65 days from the date of
the published notice, the abandoned property will be placed, not later than 85
days after such publication date, in the custody of the Treasurer to whom all
further claims must thereafter be directed.
   (C)   When publication not required. The Village Clerk is not required to
publish in such notice any item of less than $200 unless he or she deems such
publication to be in the public interest, nor any item of which the name of the
owner is unknown.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-10-2) (Ord. passed 12-11-1979; Ord. passed 7-5-1983)
§ 37.022 SALE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Public sale. All abandoned property other than money delivered to the
Treasurer under this subchapter shall, within one year after the delivery, be
sold by her to the highest bidder at public sale. The Treasurer may decline the
highest bid and reoffer the property for sale if she considers the price bid
insufficient. He or she need not offer any property for sale if, in his or her
opinion, the probable cost of sale exceeds the value of the property.
   (B)   Notice of sale. Any sale held under this subchapter shall be preceded
by a single publication of notice thereof at least three weeks in advance of
sale in an English language newspaper of general circulation in the village.
   (C)   Transfer of title. The purchaser, at any sale conducted by the
Treasurer pursuant to this subchapter, shall receive title to the property
purchased free from all claims of the owner or prior holder thereof and of all
persons claiming through or under them. The Treasurer shall execute all
documents necessary to complete the transfer of title.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-10-3) (Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 37.023 REVENUE FROM PROPERTY SALES.
   (A)   Disposition of revenues. All funds received under this subchapter,
including the proceeds from the sale of abandoned property under §
37.022 of this chapter, shall forthwith be transferred by the Treasurer for
deposit in the Corporate Fund of the village; except that, the Treasurer is to
retain in a separate trust fund an amount not exceeding $700 from which he or
she shall make prompt payment of claims duly allowed by the village as
hereinafter provided. However, should any claim be allowed or any refund
ordered under the provisions of this subchapter in excess of $700, the village
shall increase the amount of such separate trust fund to an amount necessary
for prompt payment of such claim in excess of $700 and the Treasurer shall make
prompt payment thereof.
   (B)   Records kept. Before making the deposit, the Treasurer shall record
the name and last known address of each person appearing to be entitled to the
abandoned property which record shall be available for public inspection at all
reasonable business hours.
   (C)   Deduction of village costs. Before making any deposit pursuant to this
subchapter, the Treasurer may deduct:
      (1)   Any costs in connection with sale of abandoned property;
      (2)   Any costs of mailing and publication in connection with any
abandoned property; and
      (3)   Any costs in connection with the maintenance of records or
disposition of claims made pursuant to this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-10-4) (Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 37.024 CLAIMS FOR PROPERTY.
   (A)   Authority to file claim. Any person claiming an interest in any
property delivered to the Corporate Fund under this subchapter may file a claim
thereto or to the proceeds from the sale thereof on the form prescribed by the
Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Determination of claims; hearing. The Village President and Board of
Trustees shall consider any claim filed under this subchapter and may, in their
discretion, hold a hearing and receive evidence concerning it. No hearings
shall be held if the payment of the claim is ordered by a court, if the
claimant is under court jurisdiction, or if the claim is paid under the Probate
Act, being 755 ILCS 5/25-1 as now or hereafter amended.
   (C)   Payment of claim; deduction of village costs. If the claim is allowed,
and after deducting an amount not to exceed $20 to cover the cost of notice,
publication and related clerical expenses, the Treasurer shall make payment
forthwith upon notification by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Restriction on accrued income. When property is paid or delivered to
the Treasurer under this subchapter, the owner is not entitled to receive
income or other increments accruing thereafter.
(1988 Code, § 1-10-10-5) (Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE AND MATERIAL INCIDENT REIMBURSEMENT
§ 37.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COSTS. All expenses incurred by the Fire Department or any other public
agency assisting the Fire Department as a result of any removal or remedial
action.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE AGENCY. A unit of local government or volunteer fire
protection organization that provides:
      (1)   Firefighting services;
      (2)   Emergency rescue services;
      (3)   Emergency medical services;
      (4)   Hazardous materials response teams;
      (5)   Emergency service and disaster agency/civil defense; and
      (6)   Public works departments and/or maintenance departments.
   FACILITY. Any building, structure, installation, equipment pipe or pipeline
including, but not limited to, any pipe into a sewer or publicly-owned
treatment works, well, pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage
container, tank, motor vehicle, truck trailer, rolling stock or aircraft. Also,
any site or area where a hazardous material has been deposited, stored,
disposed of or otherwise managed.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS OR SUBSTANCES. Any material, substance or mixture of
materials or substances which are toxic, flammable, corrosive, explosive,
carcinogenic or radioactive including, but not limited to, any substance or
material which is designated as a hazardous material pursuant to the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. §§ 5101 et seq.) in a quantity and form
which may pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health,
property or the environment when improperly released, treated, stored,
transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
   MUTUAL AID. Any action taken by the Fire Department or any public agency
pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, including, but not limited to, any
agreement that is part of the mutual aid box alarm system (“MABAS”).
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping,
discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing of a hazardous material
into or on any land, air, water, well, stream, sewer or pipe so that such
hazardous material or any constituent thereof may enter the environment.
   REMEDIAL ACTION. Any action consistent with permanent, remedy taken instead
of or in addition to removal actions in the event of a release or threatened
release of a hazardous material into the environment, to prevent or minimize
the release or a hazardous materials so that they do not migrate to cause a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, such actions at the
location of release as storage, confinement, perimeter protection using dikes,
trenches or ditches, clay cover, neutralization, cleanup of released hazardous
materials or contaminated materials, recycling or reuse, diversion,
destruction, segregation, or reactive wastes, repair or replacement of leaking
containers, collection of leachate and runoff, on-site treatment or
incineration, provision of alternate waste supplies and any monitoring
reasonably required to assure that such actions protect the public health and
welfare and the environment.
   REMOVAL. The cleanup or removal of released hazardous materials from the
environment; such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to monitor, assess
and evaluate the release or threat of release of hazardous materials, the
disposal of removed material, or the taking of such action as may be necessary
to prevent, minimize or mitigate damage to the public health or welfare of the
environment.
   RESPONSE. Any removal or remedial action.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any person, company, firm, corporation, business,
partnership, an unincorporated association, association, estate, trust, joint
venture or legal entity, or their legal representative, agent or assign. Also,
any unit of federal, state or local government.
(Ord. 06-341, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 37.036 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall cause, threaten or allow the release of hazardous materials
into the environment unless such release is in accordance with an appropriate
permit granted by the state’s Environmental Protection Agency or other state or
federal agency having primary jurisdiction over the release and such release is
in such place and manner as will not create a substantial present or potential
hazard to human health, property or the environment.
(Ord. 06-341, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.037 RESPONSE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or designee shall have authority to respond to any
release or threatened release of hazardous materials within the village or
affecting the public water supply, wells or sewage treatment works located
within the village or pursuant to any lawful intergovernmental agreement of
which the Fire Department is a party. This authority includes, but is not
limited to, remedial action and removal.
   (B)   (1)   The Fire Chief or designee shall have primary authority to
respond to any release or threatened release of hazardous materials as
described above. The Fire Chief or designee shall ensure the reporting of any
release or threatened release of hazardous materials to appropriate federal,
state and local public health, safety and emergency agencies within 24 hours of
any substantial release of hazardous materials.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall relinquish response authority at such time, if
any, as the federal, state or local public health, safety or emergency agency
having primary jurisdiction over the release or threatened release has assumed
responsibility for response to the release or threatened release.
   (C)   The Fire Chief or designee shall be authorized to utilize all
Department personnel and equipment and has sole discretion to take such
remedial or removal action as may be deemed necessary or appropriate to respond
to the release of hazardous material.
   (D)   All responding personnel shall cooperate with and operate under the
direction of the Fire Chief or other person then exercising response authority
under this subchapter until such time as the person exercising such response
authority has determined that the response is complete or responsibility for
response is assumed by the federal, state or local public health, safety or
emergency agency having primary jurisdiction over the release or threatened
release.
   (E)   The person exercising response authority under this subchapter shall
coordinate and/or cooperate with other federal, state or local pubic health,
safety or emergency response agencies involved in response to the release or
threatened release of hazardous materials.
(Ord. 06-341, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 37.038 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, and subject only to the
defenses set forth herein, the following persons shall be jointly and severally
liable for all costs of removal and remedial action incurred by the village,
including, but not limited to, the village’s Fire Department, Police Department
and Public Works Department, as a result of a release or threatened release of
a hazardous material:
   (A)   The owner and operator of a facility or vessel from which there was a
release or substantial threat of release of a hazardous material;
   (B)   Any person who, at the time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of a hazardous material, owned or operated the facility or vessel
used for such disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of any such hazardous material;
   (C)   Any person who by contract, agreement or otherwise has arranged with
another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous materials owned, controlled or possessed by such person at a facility
owned or operated by another party or entity from which facility there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of such hazardous materials; and
   (D)   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous materials for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment facilities from which there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of a hazardous substances.
(Ord. 06-341, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 37.039 DEFENSES.
   There will be no liability hereunder for a person otherwise liable who can
establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the release or substantial
threat of release of a hazardous material and the damages resulting there from
occurred in accordance with any of the permitted defenses enumerated in 415
ILCS 5/22-2.
(Ord. 06-341, passed 5-15-2006)
“INVEST IN DOLTON”; AUCTIONING VACANT HOMES TO BE REHABILITATED
§ 37.050 AUTHORIZATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The corporate authorities of the village hereby authorizes the
commencement of legal action for acquisition and sale of vacant residential
properties to be owned by the village to support the program “Invest in
Dolton”, to be established as follows.
   (B)   The Village Manager is hereby authorized and directed to establish a
program to raffle or auction village-owned vacant homes to a village resident
or any persons who seeks to live and own a home in Dolton to rehabilitate said
home to comply with all village codes.
(Ord. 17-048, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 37.051 PROCEDURES, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Village-owned vacant homes may be sold by raffle or auction for a cost
of acquisition of $5,000 to financially qualified persons.
   (B)   All raffles or auction candidates must show proof of access to funds
in a minimum amount of $40,000 to rehabilitate the property to qualify, by way
of line of credit or cash or bank approval loan.
   (C)   Once a candidate is deemed qualified, a list of vacant residential
properties shall be prepared and all qualified candidates will be allowed to
participate in the “Invest in Dolton” auction program of any property offered
by the village.
   (D)   Raffle or auction winners will receive an “AS IS” conditional purchase
offer.
   (E)   Properties shall not be conveyed to the raffle or auction winner until
the rehabilitation is completed and the work approved by the village.
   (F)   However, to support and comply with lending regulation, the village
may issue a reversionary deed or deposit deed with a closing escrow agent to
assist in satisfying lending requirements.
   (G)   All rehabilitation work shall be performed by a licensed contractor
registered with the village.
   (H)   Candidates will be required to execute a one-year renovation agreement
including a deed restriction that the property must remain owner occupied for
five years after completion of the rehabilitation.
   (I)   Failure to comply with the terms of the renovation agreement shall
result in forfeiture of the property.
   (J)   The Village Manager is authorized to establish all program rules and
regulations to implement and manage this program. A law firm will serve as
special legal counsel for the program entitled “Invest in Dolton” by acquiring
the properties for the cost of acquisition.
(Ord. 17-048, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 37.052 FUNDING.
   All professional service costs for legal services for the “Invest in Dolton”
program shall be paid from the village’s Legal Services Account. All moneys
paid shall be restored to the legal services account upon the village’s receipt
of funds from the execution of purchase contracts with village for raffled or
auctioned properties pursuant to the program.
(Ord. 17-048, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 37.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty has been prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who is liable for the release or threatened release
of a hazardous material who fails without sufficient cause to pay for or
provide removal or remedial action upon or in accordance with a notice and
request of the Fire Department, or in accordance with any order of any court
having jurisdiction of the matter, shall be liable to the village for any costs
incurred by the Fire Department as a result of such failure to provide or take
such removal or remedial action, together with the cost of any removal or
remedial action taken by the Fire Department in accordance with the ordinance,
and all attorneys fees and related legal costs incurred in connection
therewith.
      (2)   In addition, any such person shall be guilty of a violation of §§
37.035 through
37.039 of this chapter and shall be filled not less than $100, nor more than
$700, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each
day on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   Charges for removal or remedial action when rendered by the Fire
Department or any other responding agency rendering mutual aid or assistance to
the Fire Department shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   The reasonable cost of each vehicle responding as determined by
the responding agency;
         (b)   The cost of all personnel including any overtime costs to the
village of or to any responding agency, incurred as a result of the removal or
remedial action; and
         (c)   The cost of all materials and equipment used, expended,
depleted, destroyed or removed from service in accordance with federal, state
or local ordinance as a result of the mitigation or containment operations if
or at the request of the Fire Department or any responding agency.
(Ord. 06-341, passed 5-15-2006)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
      
51.   GARBAGE AND WASTE
CHAPTER 50: COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Systems combined; administration
   
50.002   Use of public systems required
   
50.003   Private systems
   
50.004   Connection to combined system
   
50.005   Maintenance of pipes and fixtures
   
50.006   Excavations for water pipes or sewers
   
50.007   Access to premises
   
50.008   Notice to users of the system
Water Use and Service
   
50.020   Permit to use water; unlawful use
   
50.021   Turning on water
   
50.022   Construction regulations
   
50.023   Water meters
   
50.024   Unauthorized water connection
   
50.025   Water conservation measures
   
50.026   Restricted and prohibited acts
   
50.027   Ground water as a potable water supply
   
50.028   Outside water usage
Water Rates and Charges
   
50.040   Water rates established
   
50.041   Determination of charges; estimates
   
50.042   Red tagging and shutting off water
   
50.043   Liability for payment of charges
   
50.044   Bills for service; delinquencies
   
50.045   Water meter installation costs
   
50.046   Water use during building construction
   
50.047   Disposition of revenue
   
50.048   Books and accounts
   
50.049   Hearing procedure to contest the amount of water bill
Cross-Connection Control
   
50.060   Purpose
   
50.061   Application
   
50.062   Policy
   
50.063   Definitions
   
50.064   Water system
   
50.065   Cross-connection prohibited
   
50.066   Survey and investigations
   
50.067   Where protection is required
   
50.068   Type of protection required
   
50.069   Backflow prevention devices
   
50.070   Inspection and maintenance
   
50.071   Booster pumps
   
50.072   Violations
Sewer Use and User Charge
   
50.085   Purpose
   
50.086   Definitions
   
50.087   Use of public sewers required
   
50.088   Building sewers and connections
   
50.089   Use of public sewers
   
50.090   Protection of sewage works from damage
   
50.091   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
50.092   Wastewater service charges
   
50.093   General billing and revenue provisions
   
50.094   Effective date of rates
   
50.095   Appeals
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 SYSTEMS COMBINED; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   There was, heretofore on 6-13-1961, combined into one utility a
waterworks system of the village and an existing combined sewer system of the
village, which is presently known as the “Combined Waterworks and Sewerage
System of the Village of Dolton, Cook County, Illinois”.
   (B)   The combined waterworks and sewerage system shall be under the
administrative control of the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1)
§ 50.002 USE OF PUBLIC SYSTEMS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building permits shall be issued for the erection of any building
on any lot or parcel of land within the village unless such proposed building
shall be connected with the sewer and water systems of the village whenever
such sewer or water system is available or adjacent to such lot or parcel of
land.
   (B)   Every building in which plumbing fixtures are installed and are for
human use, occupancy or habitation shall be connected to the public water
supply if available, otherwise, suitable provisions shall be made for water in
accordance with the provisions of §
50.003(A) of this chapter providing for the construction of private water
supply.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-2)
§ 50.003 PRIVATE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Permit to construct; covenant to connect to public system when
available. In the event that the sewer or water system of the village is not
available to or adjacent to such lot or parcel of land, a building permit will
be issued only after application is made to the President and Board of Trustees
for special permit to construct a private well, septic tank and seepage system.
The President and Board of Trustees may grant such special permit after setting
standards and specifications for the construction of wells, septic tanks and
seepage systems, setting permit fees, inspection fees and requiring a covenant
from the permittee in regard to the ultimate connection to the water and sewer
systems of the village.
   (B)   Private catch basins, manholes and vaults.
      (1)   The construction of private catch basins or manholes outside the
lot lines or inside the area or building walls will not be permitted unless
special written permission is given by the Building Commissioner and the Health
Inspector.
      (2)   No private catch basins, manholes or vaults shall be permitted in
any street or alley pavement without direct authority to so place the same
being first obtained from the President and Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Outhouses and vaults. Outhouses shall not be maintained or
constructed; nor shall any old vault be connected to a sewer.
      (2)   Cesspools. Cesspools shall not be allowed by this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-3) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.004 CONNECTION TO COMBINED SYSTEM.
   (A)   The President and Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to make such
rules and regulations consistent with this chapter for the connection to the
combined waterworks and sewerage system, specifying the types and sizes of
pipes and all the other appurtenances and extensions thereto and amend the same
from time to time as may be deemed necessary. All service pipes and connections
to the combined waterworks and sewerage system shall comply with the said
specifications and rules. Any person not complying with the specifications and
rules for connections to the combined waterworks and sewerage system shall be
subject to a penalty provided in §
50.999 of this chapter.
   (B)   The connection to the village sewer or water systems shall be made by
the Building Department and the charge to be made for such connection shall be
determined by the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-4)
§ 50.005 MAINTENANCE OF PIPES AND FIXTURES.
   The customer shall be responsible for maintaining all pipes and fixtures on
the owned premises and no credit will be given on excess meter charges caused
by leakage and waste on the customer’s premises, whether known or not.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-5)
§ 50.006 EXCAVATIONS FOR WATER PIPES OR SEWERS.
   (A)   Permit required. No work of excavating for laying or repairing water
pipes or sewers in the street or parkway or other public rights-of-way shall be
lawful unless the required permit is obtained.
   (B)   Deviating from grade. Should water, gas or other pipes or drains be
encountered in the direct line of a house sewer during its construction, the
method of carrying such sewer under, over or around such or similar
obstructions or of doing anything involving a deviation from the proper line of
standard grade shall be approved by the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   Disturbing private sewers or drains. Whenever it may be found
necessary to pass through or in any way disturb any existing house drain or
private sewer in actual use, such drainage pipe or private sewer shall not be
interfered with, nor cut through, nor connected in any way, without the
approval of the Building Commissioner.
   (D)   Sewer trenches. All excavations for sewer and drain trenches shall
have a uniform slope at the bottom with cross grooves cut in to receive the
hubs of the pipe. Each length of pipe shall be given a solid bearing using
concrete, if necessary, and the soil on each side of the pipe shall be well
rammed.
   (E)   Protection of utility mains, equipment and pipes. Should gas or water
mains, electrical equipment or other pipes be encountered during the laying of
sewers or drains, the pipes encountered shall be carefully and thoroughly
protected against injury or settlement by the contractor at his or her own
expense. Long sections of pipe shall be so placed that undue strain to any part
thereof, through expansion or contraction, cannot occur.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-8) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.007 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   Employees of the combined waterworks and sewerage system shall have the
right at all times of access to any person’s premises for the purpose of
ascertaining the number and type of water and sewer connections to the combined
system. Any person refusing the right to permit the said employees of the
combined waterworks and sewerage system the above-described right of access to
his or her premises shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
50.999 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-9) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.008 NOTICE TO USERS OF THE SYSTEM.
   A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the Village Clerk, shall be
filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, and shall be deemed
notice to all owners of real estate of their liability for service supplied to
any user of the service of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the
village on their properties, and it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk and
such other officers of the village to take all action necessary or required by
the laws of the state thereunto enabling to file all claims for money due to
the village and to prosecute and enforce such claims in the manner, form and
time as permitted by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-10)
WATER USE AND SERVICE
§ 50.020 PERMIT TO USE WATER; UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   No person shall take water from any fire plug, hydrant, valve, faucet,
pipe or any other opening connected with the village’s waterworks system, nor
shall any person open any such fire plug, hydrant, valve or faucet for the
purpose of taking water, or for any purpose, unless such person shall first
have made application for use of water for such purpose and shall have received
permission from the Building Commissioner, or unless such person is an employee
of the village and is acting in the discharge of his or her duties as such.
   (B)   No person to whom a permit is issued for the use of water for any
purpose whatsoever, including construction purposes, tamping, irrigating,
testing, flushing, domestic supply and the like shall use or consent to the use
of any water not authorized by said permit, or consent to the use of such water
by any other person. Any person to whom such permit is issued shall at all
times use precaution to prevent any waste of water or damage and, upon
completion of the work for which such use of water is authorized, or upon the
expiration of the time specified in such permit, he or she shall be required to
close off all stopcocks and valves; provided, however, that, if a permit has
been issued for service from water service pipes controlled by such valves they
may be allowed to remain open.
   (C)   The water supply may be cut off from any premises if the permit
therefor was obtained through misrepresentation or if any unauthorized use or
willful waste of water is found.
   (D)   Adoption of rules governing the conservation of water.
      (1)   Title. This division (D) shall be entitled “Water Regulations”.
      (2)   Rules and regulations. The Village President or his or her lawful
designee shall be empowered to issue and promulgate such regulations or rules
as may, from time to time, be necessary to conserve water and otherwise ensure
the integrity and sufficiency of the waterworks system for the village. Such
regulations shall be filed with the Village Clerk and shall be published and
enjoy the same force and effect of ordinances of the village and violations
shall be punishable as provided for in this chapter.
   (E)   For the period commencing on May 15 through September 15, of each
year, no one shall sprinkle, water or irrigate lawns or residential vegetation
between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.
   (F)   None of the provisions of division (E) above are intended to preclude
the Village President or his or her lawful designee from promulgating rules
further restricting the use of water as may be determined necessary in the case
of water shortage as prescribed by division (D) above.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6-1) (Ord. 88-126, passed 6-28-1988; Ord. 90-113, passed 7-
10-1990) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.021 TURNING ON WATER.
   (A)   Within 48 hours after completing any attachment or connection to the
waterworks system, the plumber to whom the permit was issued shall make report
in writing to the village on forms to be furnished by the village that such
work is completed.
   (B)   The water will not be turned into any house or private service pipe
until the proper requests for permit have been received and work has been
approved by the Building Commissioner who shall issue a certificate of approval
to that effect. Plumbers will be allowed to leave the water turned on for 24
hours to test their work, but at the end of such time and before request for
permit is made, they shall turn off the water. For all other purposes, plumbers
are strictly prohibited from turning the water into any service pipe, except
upon written order or permission of the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6-2)
§ 50.022 CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Water taps.
      (1)   Authority to tap. No person, except an employee of the village,
duly authorized by the Board of Trustees, shall be permitted under any
circumstances to tap the street main or insert service cocks therein. The
builder or construction contractor shall perform the necessary uncovering in
order for the Village Plumber to make the tap.
      (2)   Notice requesting water taps. Notice must be filed in the office of
the Building Department by the plumber, fixing the day on which he or she
wishes the service cock inserted. This notice must be filed prior to commencing
any excavation in the street for the purpose of laying the service pipe or
inserting the service cock. Notice shall be filed on or before 9:00 a.m. for
taps desired on the same afternoon of the notice. In case the hole is not
properly dug and it becomes necessary for tapper to return to the job a second
time, an additional charge of $45 will be made.
      (3)   Preparation of private tapping. All service cocks must be inserted
at or near the top of the street main, and in no case nearer than two feet of
the bell of the pipe; except that, when the street main shall be less than five
feet below curb grade, such tap shall be made in a manner to least expose the
service pipe to damage by frost. The building contractor or builder’s plumber
shall prepare the trench for the water service pipe from the water main to the
buffalo box, and shall furnish the water service pipe for tapping, and after
tapping by the Village Plumber, shall backfill in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Fee. The tapping fee shall be in addition to the service charge for
meters as set forth in §
50.045 of this chapter.
      (5)   Non-liability of village. Nothing in this division (A) contained
shall render the village liable to the plumber or relieve the plumber from the
duty and expense of protecting trenches until such time as the village is able
to make the tap and inspections required, and do any incidental work it is
required to perform.
   (B)   Construction specifications.
      (1)   Water service pipes and appurtenances.
         (a)   Each and every water service pipe must have a minimum three-
quarter inch T handle roundway stopcock inserted not less than one foot, nor
more than six feet, inside of the curb in parkway. Such stopcock or valve shall
be known as a service cock. The line of the service pipe shall be approximately
at right angles to the main, and the sidewalk service cock shall be located
directly opposite the tap in the main. Where the sidewalk covers the entire
parkway, the service cock shall be inserted into the service pipe not less than
two feet inside the edge of the curb. Each and every service cock must be
protected with a cast-iron buffalo stop box at least five feet long or longer,
as required by the Building Department, and with the word “water” cast on the
cover. Such service cock and box must be placed by the plumber as hereinafter
provided. The stop box in all cases must be placed plumb and square over the
service cock and level with the top of the sidewalk or curb. Rules governing
service cock and stop box in a street shall apply to these appurtenances when
placed in an alley; except that, the service cock shall be placed in the alley
not more than one foot from the lot line and that the stop box shall be of
extra heavy iron and shall be set level with the grade of the alley.
         (b)   The service pipe may be laid in the same ditch with the house
sewer, but shall not be laid directly over the sewer. The service pipe shall be
laid not less than five feet below the established grade of the street nor with
less than five feet of cover. The service pipe shall be laid to the depth above
specified without regard to the depth of the street main. Service pipe shall
have sufficient length to prevent fracture by settlement of earth. The
backfilling over the service pipe in any roadway in clay soil must be filled
with sand and rammed or puddled to the satisfaction of the Building
Commissioner. At the ferrule, the earth must be carefully rammed under the main
distribution pipe to a level with the top of the service pipe. In wet or soft
ground, a solid support of brick, stone or wood shall be placed under the
“gooseneck” to prevent breaking the coupling.
         (c)   1.   Service pipes for a dwelling having not more than eight
rooms may be three-quarter inch at service cock, and continue as such size to
and inside of the building; provided that, such building is not located more
than 50 feet from such service cock.
            2.   Every apartment building of five stories or more shall have
two water services connected in series.
         (d)   Should it become necessary to replace or repair old service
pipes, the provisions of this division (B)(1) above shall apply.
         (e)   All service pipes for household purposes shall be of three-
quarter inch internal diameter, except when a special permit for a larger
service and corresponding tap is obtained from the Building Department.
         (f)   The service pipes of all fountains set out of doors must be
provided with stopcocks, under the control of the Building Commissioner.
         (g)   All water service pipes shall be Type K soft copper excepting
that water service pipes larger than two inches shall be American Water Works
Association, Class B, cast iron pipe of the bell and spigot type and shall
conform to the village’s specifications. No water service pipe of an internal
diameter less than three-quarter inch shall be installed in any public way nor
connected to the mains of the village waterworks system.
         (h)   Yard hydrants located in yards, open lots or fields or as a
temporary supply for buildings or other purposes or where subject to use by the
public shall be on a metered service pipe.
         (i)   It shall be the duty of the tapper to see that the proper
connection is made with the ferrule; that the water is turned on; that joints
are tested for leaks; that the pipe is unobstructed; and that the service cock
is in good working order. He or she shall make and record accurate measurements
as to location of box and depth of service pipe.
         (j)   The tapper shall refuse to tap any street main for any one of
the following reasons: incorrect size, grade or quality of pipe, service cock
or stop box; improper joints; also when pipe is not in the ditch, or when
service cock and stop box are not properly set; or when there is not sufficient
surplus pipe at main; or when ditch is not properly dug. The tapper, for any
such cause, may require the plumber to obtain a new order for the tapping in
question.
         (k)   The service pipe on house side of service cock shall not be
covered before it has been inspected and approved by the Building Commissioner.
         (l)   The service pipe shall enter the building in a direct line with
the stop box and tap where practicable. Such pipe shall be provided with a gate
valve the full size of the house service. Such shut-off shall be known as “main
building cock”. The service pipe shall be three-quarter inch Type K copper
minimum to the location of the water meter inside of the building. Distributing
main and supply pipes shall conform to this chapter. Such fixtures shall be
provided with a pipe not less than three-quarter inch inside diameter.
         (m)   Any person who shall hereafter lay down or alter any service
pipe contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to punishment
as provided in this chapter; and, in addition thereto, shall be prohibited from
doing any further work relating to the village water supply until he or she
shall have paid all fines and corrected his or her work in compliance with this
division (B)(1).
      (2)   Rat-proofing. All exterior openings provided for the passage of
piping shall be properly sealed with snuggly-fitting collars of metal or other
approved rat-proof material securely fastened in place. Interior openings
through walls, floors and ceilings shall be rat-proofed.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6-3) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.023 WATER METERS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No free service of the water shall be furnished to any person,
firm, organization or corporation, public or private. Every user of water shall
have a metered water connection to said system and every water meter shall be
sealed by the Village Plumber. Such water meter shall be approved by the
corporate authorities.
      (2)   The flat rate charged for water supplied under any building permit
shall terminate when occupancy of premises begins. All water used after
beginning of occupancy shall be supplied through a meter.
   (B)   Installation of meters. Water meters shall be set in the following
manner.
      (1)   Inside of the buildings, all meters shall be placed on the service
pipe where such service pipe enters the building, except no water meters shall
be installed in any water closet room. Such meters shall be provided with two
shut-off valves, one on supply and one on house side of meter. The size of
meters shall be as prescribed by the Building Department.
      (2)   Outside of buildings, the water meter shall be set in a basin or
vault. All meter basins or vaults shall be made to specifications prescribed by
the Board of Trustees. The location of meter boxes outside of buildings shall,
so far as practicable, be between the sidewalk and curb lines.
   (C)   Maintenance and repair.
      (1)   In no case will anyone be allowed to remove or replace any water
meter connected to the service, except the Village Plumber. In case of any
trouble with, or repair necessary to any water meter, the Building Department
must be notified. The Building Department shall repair and put in proper
condition the water meter, replacing and sealing same; except, in emergency
cases, a registered master plumber may remove such meters from connection and
insert connection piece in its place. The master plumber must make a detailed
report within 24 hours to the Building Department. Each 24 hours’ continuance
of delay in making a report shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall from time to time cause to
be inspected and tested water meters as routine procedure. Between routine
tests, the Superintendent shall cause to be inspected and tested such water
meters as may appear to be out of order or indicate faulty registration. Any
meters found faulty on such test shall be repaired or replaced at village
expense unless such faulty meter shall have been damaged by the negligence of
the customer, in which case the village will charge the customer the cost of
such repairs or replacement.
   (D)   Meter sizes. The following size water meters shall be installed as
indicated:
Size of Dwelling Meter Size
Size of Dwelling              Meter Size
1-family dwelling
   3/4” tap and 3/4” pi5/8” water meter
2- and 3-family dwelling
   1” tap and 1” pipe  1” water meter
4-, 6- and 8-family dwelling
   1-1/2” tap and 1-1/2�1” water meter
10-, 12-, 16-, 18- and 20-family dwelling
   2” tap and 2” pipe  2” water meter
 
   (E)   Hot water returns. In all dwellings other than one-family dwellings,
there shall be a hot water return.
   (F)   Remote water meter reading. In all new construction of buildings, the
owner thereof shall install a one-half inch conduit from a front side location
on the building, to be determined by the village’s Superintendent of Public
Works. Said conduit shall be through the wall of the building to the water
meter location and shall be one foot back of front corner of the building and a
minimum of two feet above grade to a maximum of four feet above grade. The
conduit, when installed, shall be for the exclusive use of the village’s Water
Department for the installation of wire for remote water meter readings.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6-4) (Ord. passed 4-13-1976) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.024 UNAUTHORIZED WATER CONNECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect to, disconnect, repair or
alter the village water system, or any part thereof, including, but not limited
to, any water line or water meter, or to open any fire hydrant, property stop,
valve or other fixtures attached to the system of water supply without first
obtaining written permission from the village.
   (A)   Tampering with or altering water system prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to meddle, tamper with, alter,
deface or make changes to any public water system facilities or appurtenances
thereof including the building water service line to any premises, or any
building plumbing fixtures ahead of the meter, or to interfere in any way with
a meter or meter set plumbing.
      (2)   Should it appear that water has been stolen by way of altering any
piping, unauthorized connection, straight piping, meter tampering or otherwise,
the village shall have the right to discontinue service until all defects,
alterations and tampering have been corrected, and appropriate compensation and
restitution has been made by the offending person.
      (3)   When a water meter is found to have been tampered with or unmetered
water has been otherwise diverted or used, the customer shall be billed at the
current commodity rate for the estimated unauthorized volume as determined by
the village. The consumption shall be estimated on the basis of previous
consumption records or any other appropriate basis at the discretion of the
village in accordance with generally accepted utility practices.
   (B)   Meters.
      (1)   Inspection and adjustment. Meters may be checked, inspected or
adjusted at the discretion of the village and they shall not be adjusted or
tampered with in any manner or removed by the user or any other person.
      (2)   Meter interference. No person shall:
         (a)   Prevent water from passing through any meter connected directly
or indirectly with the public water mains;
         (b)   Prevent any meter from accurately registering the amount of
water passing through such meter; or
         (c)   Prevent or obstruct a meter from accurately registering the
quantity of water supplied or in any way interfere with the purpose, action or
just registration of a meter.
   (C)   Inspections of water meters.
      (1)   A duly authorized employee of the village, bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon the premises at
any time and at all reasonable hours and shall have access to the meter for the
purpose of inspection, reading and examining the water meter whenever the
village suspects or determines that there is an unauthorized water connection.
If access is refused, the supply of water may be shut off without further
notice.
      (2)   An inspection of the water meter and connection to the village
water supply shall be conducted prior the issuance of the village real estate
transfer stamp for the sale of property and whenever there is a change in
tenant when the premises is being rented or leased.
      (3)   In addition to the right to inspect under divisions (C)(1) and (C)
(2) above, the village shall have the right to conduct an inspection of the
water meter and connection to the village water supply on a yearly basis.
   (D)   Inspection by warrant. If the owner, agent, occupant or person in
charge of the premises does not consent to the attempted inspection, the
Superintendent of Public Works, or his or her duly authorized agent, shall seek
a search warrant in the Circuit Court of the county. The warrant shall be for
the purpose of making an inspection to determine whether there is an
unauthorized connection to the village’s water supply. An owner, agent,
occupant or person in charge of the premises who is presented with a search
warrant obtained pursuant to this division (D) shall not refuse, impede,
inhibit, interfere with, restrict or obstruct entry and free access to any part
of the premises where an inspection authorized by the search warrant is sought
to be made.
   (E)   Unauthorized water service; theft of services.
      (1)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful to provide oneself or others with
(or make use of) water service from the village water system without
authorization form the village. When water service has been discontinued by the
Public Works Department for non-payment of water charges, non-compliance with
this section or for any other reason, it shall be unlawful to restore water
service or receive water service by any means without the authorization by the
village. The presence at any time on or about any meter, water line or water
main of the village (whether such meter is owned or operated by the village or
others) of a pipe or any other device which diverts water or results in taking
of any water, except through an authorized meter shall constitute prima facie
evidence on the part of the person owning or having custody or control of the
premises (where such a device or pipe is located) of the knowledge of the
existence thereof. The knowledge of such existence by the person who would
benefit by the failure of the water to be accurately metered, and shall further
constitute prima facie evidence of intention on the part of such person to
violated this section.
      (2)   Meter removal. If water service has been discontinued by the Public
Works Department due to non-payment or for any other reason, and the customer
turns the service back on or otherwise restores service without approval, the
Public Works Department may remove the meter and plug the service.
(Ord. 16-006, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.025 WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   (A)   Secondary water.
      (1)   Definition. SECONDARY WATER shall be known as water from any source
other than water from the village water system.
      (2)   Secondary supplies to be kept separate from potable water.
Secondary waters from shallow or deep aquifers, sumps, retention basins and
reclaiming units, whenever in a system of water supply piping, shall be kept
entirely separate from the domestic supply of potable water and there shall be
no connection of any kind between the two supplies.
      (3)   Pipes to be painted, warning signs required. Secondary water
systems and piping shall be painted a color of yellow as prescribed by the
village. A sign shall be attached to any faucet, valve or opening where the
secondary water could accidentally become ingested. The sign shall read: “THIS
WATER IS NOT FOR HUMAN OR ANIMAL CONSUMPTION”.
   (B)   Flushing sanitary sewers. Flushing of sanitary sewers with potable
water from the village water system shall not be allowed. Water used for
flushing shall be secondary water and used through a high velocity type sewer
jet.
   (C)   Water-using fixtures regulated.
      (1)   Generally. In all new construction and in all repair and/or
replacement of water-using fixtures, only fixtures not exceeding the following
flow rates and/or water usage shall be installed. These ratings are based on a
pressure at the fixture of 40 to 50 psi:
 
Lavatory sink faucets           3.0 gal. per minute
Shower heads                    3.0 gal. per minute
Urinals, flushometer type       1.50 gal. per flush
Urinals, tank type              Illegal
Water closets, flushometer type 3.0 gal. per flush
Water closets, tank type        3.5 gal. per flush
 
      (2)   Lavatories for public use. In addition to the requirements above,
in all new construction and in all repair and/or replacement of fixture faucets
of lavatories located in restrooms intended for use other than residential
fixtures, shall be located in restrooms intended for use other than residential
fixtures, shall be of metering or self-closing type.
   (D)   Car wash installations. In all new construction and replacement of
fixtures, car wash installations shall be equipped with a recycling system on
the wash water unit and the rinse cycle unit. Technical information shall be
furnished with mechanical and architectural drawings.
   (E)   Water softeners. No residential water softeners may use more than 75
gallons (285 liters) during the entire regeneration cycle and shall be sized to
cycle no more than one time per week.
   (F)   Industrial and business uses. Technical information of water usage of
other than the above-noted plumbing fixtures shall be indicated including
demand, rate of demand, amount lost and amount recirculated.
   (G)   Air conditioning systems. Closed air conditioning systems shall be
installed on all new construction or new remodeling.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6-5) (Ord. passed 7-27-1982; Ord. passed 5-15-1984) Penalty,
see §
50.999
§ 50.026 RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Fire hydrants.
      (1)   Use restricted. No person, except a regularly authorized agent of
the village, shall cause water to flow from any public or private fire hydrant;
except that, a person other than such an agent of the village may operate and
use water from a fire hydrant only after a written permit has been issued by
the Village President permitting such use and only after suitable arrangements,
approved by the President for payment for such water used, have been made.
      (2)   Damage or obstruction. No person shall willfully or carelessly
break or injure any of the public hydrants, or pollute or unnecessarily waste
the water at any such hydrant, or obstruct the use of any fire hydrant, or
place any material in front thereof, or within five feet from either side
thereof.
   (B)   Tampering with or injury to water utility.
      (1)   No person, other than a regularly authorized agent of the village
in line of duty, shall interfere in any manner with any public or private fire
hydrant, water main, main line valve or box or commit any act tending to
obstruct the use thereof without first obtaining a permit from the President
and Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No person shall willfully or carelessly break, injure, mar, deface,
interfere with or disturb the walls, fixtures, buildings, machinery, apparatus,
fencing reservoirs, storage tanks or any of the appurtenances of the water
system.
   (C)   Excavation near water mains. Any person making an excavation in the
vicinity of existing water mains shall be fully responsible for any damage or
leakage to or from said water mains and shall repair immediately such damage or
leakage to the satisfaction of the Building Commissioner and upon failure to do
so shall be subject to the penalties provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6-6) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.027 GROUND WATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   The use of, or attempted use of, ground water from within the
corporate limits of the village as a potable water supply, by the installation
or drilling of wells or by any other method, is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes or preparing foods.
(Ord. 07-385, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.028 OUTSIDE WATER USAGE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, PLANTED VEGETATION shall include lawns,
flowers, bushes, shrubs, trees and gardens.
   (B)   No person or corporation shall water any planted vegetation within the
village between May 15 and September 15, except as allowed in division (C)
below.
   (C)   Watering of planted vegetation on property within the village is not
allowed between the hours of 10:00 am and 3:00 p.m. Water is allowed between
the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.
   (D)   The village restrictions on watering shall not apply to any person or
corporation engaged in the business of growing and selling planted vegetation.
   (E)   Any person or corporation establishing newly planted vegetation on any
property in the village may apply at Village Hall for a permit which would
allow watering outside of the times prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) above.
(Ord. 10-501, passed 6-21-2010) Penalty, see §
50.999
WATER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.040 WATER RATES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Water rates.
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL USERS (defined to mean single-family residences or
multi-family residences with fewer than four dwelling units, and multi-family
residences with four or more dwelling units which are owner-occupied) shall pay
a rate of $7.50 per 100 cubic feet of water consumed.
      (2)   Effective 5-1-2027, all NON-RESIDENTIAL USERS (commercial,
industrial, institutional and multi-family residential units of four or more
dwelling units which are not owner-occupied) shall pay a rate of $7.50 per 100
cubic feet of water consumed. Non-residential users shall also pay a basic user
rate for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater collection
system of 20% of the total water charges.
   (B)   Cost of living increase. Effective 5-1-2018, and each May 1
thereafter, a 2% cost-of-living increase shall be imposed on the non-
residential water rate.
   (C)   Chicago-imposed increase. Effective 5-1-20217, any increase imposed on
the village by the City of Chicago for water service to the village shall be
passed on to non-residential customers.
   (D)   Unusual use of system. In cases where the character of sewage from any
commercial or industrial buildings shall be such as to impose a burden upon the
sewerage system of the village, then the President and Board of Trustees
reserve the right to enter into separate contracts for special rates and
charges where the particular circumstances render the regular rates for
servicing inadequate or unjust.
   (E)   Refuse/garbage charge. The refuse/garbage pick-up charge as authorized
by §
51.005 of this code of ordinances and collected as part of the water bill shall
be $20.50 per month. Beginning 7-1-2018, and every July 1 thereafter, there
shall be an increase in the quarterly charge for refuse/garbage pick-up service
corresponding to the increase, if any, established by the village’s approved
garbage-hauling vendor. In addition, beginning 7-1-2018, and every July 1
thereafter, there shall be a 2% cost-of-living adjustment added to the rate.
   (F)   Billing errors. An error in billing shall not constitute waiver of
claim for adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7-1) (Ord. 25-009, passed 9-2-2025)
§ 50.041 DETERMINATION OF CHARGES; ESTIMATES.
   Charges at the rates as set forth in §
50.040 of this chapter shall be made on the readings of water meters made by
persons employed by the village for such purpose. Reading shall be made every
three months. In the event there is no one present on the premises at the time
the water meter reader makes his or her regular call, the water meter reader
shall leave a U.S. postal card, appropriately printed, to permit the consumer
to record the present reading of the water meter on said card, instructing the
consumer to record and send the reading into the office of Comptroller and
Revenue Administrative Services. In the event the consumer does not mail in
such card in the time limit designated on said card, the office of Comptroller
and Revenue Administrative Services shall render an estimated bill for water
consumption, which bill shall be in an amount equal to the highest bill
rendered said consumer or to the premises serviced within the preceding
municipal year.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7-2) (Ord. 03-217, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 50.042 RED TAGGING AND SHUTTING OFF WATER.
   (A)   Red tagging. In accordance with the provisions of §
50.041 of this chapter concerning meter readings taken once every three months,
if after a second reading is taken and a U.S. postal card is left for return to
the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services which has not
been returned within ten days of the second reading, said meter may be
considered for “red tagging” in preparation for “shut off’ of water to the
premises.
   (B)   Authority to enter premises. The officers of the Department of Public
Works of the village and any person delegated by the Superintendent of the
Department shall have free entry and access to every part of any building,
structure or premises whenever such entry or access is deemed necessary or
advisable. Wherever any person, in possession, charge or control of any such
building, structure or premises into which any such officer or designated
representative of the Superintendent of the Department of Public Works shall
desire entry or access, shall refuse to permit such entry or access, or shall
do or cause to be done any act or thing for the purpose of preventing such
entry or access, the Superintendent may turn off the water service from said
building, structure or premises, until notice shall have been given the
Superintendent, in writing, that entry or access will be permitted or provided,
and until such entry or access shall have been accomplished.
   (C)   Private persons supply water.
      (1)   No person, whether owner or occupant, or in possession, charge or
control of any building, structure or premises into which water service is
introduced, shall be allowed to supply other persons or families, or to supply
any water from such buildings or premises to a building, structure or premises
other than the one for which such water service is introduced, unless a permit
from the Department of Public Works shall first have been secured.
      (2)   If any person, either as owner or occupant, or in possession,
charge or control of any such building, structure or premises of such person
shall be shut off and stopped forthwith, any amount which shall have been paid
for water service shall be forfeited to the village. Where the water service
shall be cut off for a violation of the provisions of this section, it shall
not be turned on again until there has been paid to the village such sum of
money as the Department of Public Works shall deem properly due for the amount
of water furnished or used in violation of the provisions of this section and
until the expense for cutting off the water service on account of such
violation shall have been paid.
   (D)   Presumption of suspicion of tampering with water supply. Any building
or structure concerning which no entry thereto has been permitted for a period
of one year shall be presumed, by virtue of such delay, to be subject as to
tampering with the water supply system and shall fall under the provision of
“red tagging”, provided hereinabove.
   (E)   List of premises. After the expiration of the time for payment
specified hereinbefore, a list shall be compiled of those premises for which
assessed rates and charges remain unpaid, and the water supply of the premises
against which such rates and charges remain so outstanding shall be authorized
for “red tagging” and “shut off”. The office of Comptroller and Revenue
Administrative Services shall send specific notice to the owner of the premises
scheduled for “red tagging”, personally delivered by the water meter reader for
said premises. Said notice shall specify the day and time the meter will be
“red tagged” and water shut off.
   (F)   Limitation on shut-ff days. Water shut-off shall be limited to Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Absent an emergency, there shall be no shut-
offs on Friday, Saturday or Sunday.
(Ord. 91-160, passed 6-25-1991; Ord. 03-217, passed 4-21-2003; Ord. 19-003,
passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.043 LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The owner of the premises where water service is furnished, the
occupant and/or tenant thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and
severally liable to pay for the service on such premises and the service is
furnished to the premises by the village, upon condition that the owner of the
premises, occupant, tenant and user of the service are jointly and severally
liable therefor to the village. In the event of a dispute, the owner of any
premises to which any water service is provided is the ultimately liable party
who will be required to pay for such service, and such service is to be
provided by the village, regardless of any separate private agreements that the
owner may maintain with a third party for liability.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, tenant and/or user of the service is required to
register with the village for water services. Valid state or federal
identification must be provided at the time of registration and will be kept on
file with the village. A security deposit of $25 must be paid to the village at
this time. Any third party agreements for payment of water services between the
owner of a premises and any occupant, tenant or service user must be provided
at the time of registration and will be kept on file with the village until the
termination of said agreement. Personally identifying information will remain
confidential.
   (C)   Upon the termination or expiration of a lease or other agreement, any
occupant, tenant or service user pursuant to this section must pay any current
and/or delinquent water service bills in their entirety at the time of the
expiration or termination of said lease or agreement. The village shall
promptly notify the property owner of the modification of water service billing
information.
   (D)   Nothing herein denies, refutes, limits or negates the rights of the
village to place a lien on the property for a delinquent water service bill
pursuant to §
50.044 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7-3) (Ord. 14-013, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 50.044 BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   Rendition of bills; payment and collection.
      (1)   All bills for service shall be rendered as of the first day of the
month succeeding the period for which the service is billed and shall be
payable not later than the close of business on the twentieth day of the same
month. A discount of 5% shall be allowed on all bills paid within said 20 days
of date of billing. When the twentieth day of any month shall be a Sunday or a
legal holiday, then such bills for service shall be payable on the next
succeeding secular day without any additional penalty. Accounts not paid within
60 days of date of billing shall be and hereby are considered delinquent and an
additional 5% shall be added to the bill. Delinquent accounts shall be
designated for disconnection.
      (2)   It is hereby made the duty of the Village Collector to render bills
for service and all other charges in connection therewith and to collect all
moneys due thereon. The Collector shall report to the President and Board of
Trustees once a year on the matter of delinquent water accounts and what action
was taken to collect the amount due. The Board of Trustees shall then determine
what further action shall be taken to collect said account including
authorizing the Collector to clear said account from further collection
activity.
   (B)   Delinquent charges a lien. In the event the charges for services are
not paid within 60 days after the rendition of the bill for such service, such
charges shall be and are hereby declared to be delinquent and, thereafter, such
delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate for which such
service is supplied. The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to
file sworn detailed statements showing such delinquencies on such property in
the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county and the filing of such
statements shall be deemed notice of the lien for payment of the service
rendered; provided, however, the village may refrain from filing such a
statement of delinquencies if the village proposes to sue or shall have sued
the owner, occupant, tenant or user of the real estate in a civil action to
recover such delinquent charges.
   (C)   Disconnection of service for non-payment; reconnection fee. In the
event the charges for such service become delinquent as defined in division (A)
and (B) above, the Collector is hereby authorized and directed to cause
notification to be given in writing to the owner of the premises, the occupant
and/or tenant thereof, and the user of the service that such delinquency exists
and that services shall be discontinued without further notice. Upon the
disconnecting of any services, a charge of $75 shall be made for reconnecting
the same after settlement of the current as well as delinquent account, any
additional penalties and/or fines if paid before 2:30 p.m., Mondays through
Fridays. No reconnection of water services shall occur after the close of
regular business hours and on weekends.
   (D)   Additional charges for costs of collection. In the event the village
retains attorneys and/or collection agents for the purpose of collecting
delinquent water bills, such fees or costs incurred by the village with respect
to attorneys and/or private collection agents retained by the village shall be
charged to the delinquent customer.
   (E)   Utility termination dispute and appeal procedures.
      (1)   Notice of termination.
         (a)   1.   If the rates and charges for utility service, including all
penalties, are not paid within 15 days after the due date of the current bill
or if the customer has been found in violation of any of the rules and
regulations of any utility provided for in this code, the village may
discontinue the service after mailing a seven-day written notice to the user or
consumer of the service, by certified mail, return receipt requested; by
personal delivery; or by posting on the premises to be disconnected, of the
village’s intention to discontinue service.
            2.   If the user or consumer is not the owner of the premises
served, the seven-day written notice shall also be mailed by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the owner of the premises if his or her name and
address is known. The notice shall clearly state the number of days the account
is in arrears and the balance due, including any penalty charges or the rule or
regulation which is alleged to have been violated, whichever is applicable; the
name, title, address and phone number of the person to contact for an informal
resolution of the customer’s complaints in cases of disputes concerning the
amount due or other problems with the account; the address and office hours of
the utility office in case the customer wants to informally resolve his or her
complaint in person; and the fact that the customer is entitled to a hearing on
his or her complaint before some authorized agent of the appropriate utility
department when and if the complaint cannot be informally resolved.
         (b)   The village shall also have the right to disconnect or refuse
service from any and all village utilities to any customer or user with one or
more installations if the bills for all village utilities are not paid at any
one installation, subject of course to the notice and procedural provisions
required by this division (E).
      (2)   Customer complaints.
         (a)   If a customer or user calls, visits or writes the authorized
representative mentioned in the notice complaining of an overcharge or other
problems with the account, the authorized representative shall do one or more
of the following:
            1.   Stay termination of service until the authorized
representative renders a decision or all appeals are exhausted, whichever is
later; provided, however, that the authorized representative shall render a
decision within ten days from the date the customer or user called in his or
her complaint or made his or her complaint in person, or from the date of
receipt of a customer’s or user’s written complaint;
            2.   Conduct an investigation including, but not limited to, a
meter check in the subject premises, check utility billings for possible errors
in computation of the bill and check for leaks or illegal connections;
            3.   Establish a written credit plan, as permitted by this division
(E), in cases of claimed financial difficulties; or
            4.   If the authorized representative finds merit to the dispute,
he or she can make an adjustment of the bill with the customer or user with the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   If the authorized representative finds that the dispute as to an
overcharge or other problem with the account has no merit, he or she shall
communicate this decision to the customer or user by certified mail, return
receipt requested, by personal delivery, or by posting on the premises to be
disconnected. The notice of the decision shall specify that if the account is
not paid or the customer or user does not appeal the decision on or before five
days from the date of receipt of the notice, the utility service shall be
discontinued.
      (3)   Informal hearing.
         (a)   Any customer or user may request a hearing before the head of
the appropriate utility department or other properly authorized personnel in
the following circumstances:
            1.   Within seven days from the date of receipt of any notice of
termination of service. If the customer or user is charged with a violation of
the rules of the utility other than a dispute on the charges or other problems
with the account, the customer or user may only request a hearing as provided
herein. The informal procedure described in division (E)(2) above is not
available to any customer or user who is charged with other violations of the
utility’s rules and regulations; and
            2.   Within five days after receipt of the notice of decision by
the authorized representative under the informal procedure set forth in
division (E)(2) above.
         (b)   The hearing date shall be scheduled during regular village
business hours and for a date convenient to the parties but no later than ten
days from the date of the request. The hearing date and time shall be confirmed
by the village in writing to the person requesting the hearing by first-class
U.S. Mail. At this hearing, the customer or user shall have the right to be
represented by counsel, to appear at the hearing in person, to present evidence
on his or her own behalf and to examine any evidence which the village utility
might introduce. The village utility is authorized to conduct its own
investigation of the customer’s or user’s complaint and to present any evidence
to that effect at the hearing. Within five days after the conclusion of any
hearing, the authorized person conducting the hearing will render a decision on
the basis of the evidence presented. This decision shall be communicated to the
customer or user by certified mail, return receipt requested, by personal
delivery, or by posting on the premises to be disconnected. In case the
decision is against the customer or user, the notice of the decision shall
specify that if the account is not paid or the violation is not abated on or
before five days from the date of receipt of notice, the utility service shall
be discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7-4) (Ord. 93-211, passed 5-25-1993; Ord. 07-410, passed 8-
6-2007; Ord. 14-013, passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 17-029, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 50.045 WATER METER INSTALLATION COSTS.
   (A)   A service charge equal to the cost to the village of any meter
installed shall be paid to the village before any premises are connected to the
village water mains.
   (B)   (1)   Where an old meter becomes worn beyond repair and is no longer
serviceable, it shall be replaced by the village at no expense to the customer.
      (2)   Where a customer wishes to replace a serviceable meter with one of
a different size, he or she shall pay to the village before said new meter is
installed the difference between the salvaged value of the meter to be
replaced, as determined by the Superintendent of Public Works, and the cost of
the new meter.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7-5)
§ 50.046 WATER USE DURING BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever a building permit is issued for a residential or commercial
building a flat water service charge of $10 shall be paid to the village as
part of the building permit fee to cover cost of unmetered water during the
construction period and anticipated use in the building prior to the
installation of the permanent meter.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the Building Commissioner, the use of water
during the construction period may be excessive, he or she may require the
installation of a temporary outside meter to measure water used and to be paid
for at the regular metered water rates.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7-6)
§ 50.047 DISPOSITION OF REVENUE.
   (A)   Revenue to Treasurer. All revenue and moneys derived from the
operation of the combined waterworks and sewerage system shall be held by the
Village Collector separate and apart from all other funds of the village, and
all of said sum, without any deductions whatsoever, shall be delivered to the
Village Treasurer not more than five days after receipt of the same, or any
such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the
President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Waterworks and Sewerage Fund. The Village Treasurer shall receive all
such revenue from the combined waterworks and sewerage system and all other
funds and moneys incident to the operation of such system as the same may be
delivered to him or her and deposit the same in a separate fund designated as
the “Waterworks and Sewerage Fund of the Village of Dolton”, and the Treasurer
shall administer such Fund in every respect in the manner provided for by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7-7)
§ 50.048 BOOKS AND ACCOUNTS.
   The Village Collector shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the combined waterworks and
sewerage system and, at regular annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be
made an audit by a certified public accountant who shall render an opinion
thereon of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7-8)
§ 50.049 HEARING PROCEDURE TO CONTEST THE AMOUNT OF WATER BILL.
   A challenge to the amount of a water bill shall be filed in writing with the
Village Clerk within 60 days of the first issuance of the bill. The Village
Clerk shall, upon receipt of said written challenge, notify the Chair
Departmental Operations Committee of the Village Board to schedule a hearing on
the challenge. The Departmental Operations Committee shall hold the hearing
within 30 days of the filing of the challenge and render a final decision
thereon. The Clerk shall cause written notice of the hearing to be sent by
first class U.S. mail to the customer at least seven days prior to the hearing,
and shall provide written notice of the hearing to the Water Department at
least seven days prior to the hearing. The customer may be present at the
hearing and may have legal counsel, may cross-examine witnesses, may offer
testimony, witnesses, documents and other evidence and may present defenses to
the amount of the water bill. All testimony shall be taken under oath. Failure
of the Water Department to support the amount of the water bill will result in
a finding in favor of the resident in an amount determined by the Committee to
have been supported by the evidence. The Committee’s decision as to the amount
of the water bill shall be forwarded to the Finance Director, who shall cause a
corrected water bill to be issued within ten days of the decision of the
Committee.
(Ord. 18-007, passed 8-6-2018)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 50.060 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.061 APPLICATION.
   These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises served by the public
potable water supply system of the village.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.062 POLICY.
   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-siphonage
of contaminants through the customer’s water service connection. If, in the
judgement of the Manager of the Water Department or his or her authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Manager of the Water Department
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his or her own expense;
failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in §
50.066(D)(4) of this chapter for a period of at least five years. The Manager
of the Water Department may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection
inspection report to the village to assist in determining whether or not
service line protection will be required. All cross-connection inspections
shall be conducted by a Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector certified by
the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.063 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public, water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the state’s
Plumbing Code and the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
      (1)   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water
system is physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
      (2)   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an
unknown substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a
safe potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe”, as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD, means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the state’s Plumbing
Code, 77 III. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation law sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or person live, work or assembly from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604
for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plans, reservoirs, storage tanks
and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended for use
for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic use and
which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at least
25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
“community waster supply” or a “non-community water supply”.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than, the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shut-off valves located at each
end of the device and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.064 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up to two parts: the
public water supply system; and the customer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Manager of the Water Department
up to the point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.065 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water system and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited, except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   (1)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
      (2)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.066 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request by the Manager of the Water Department or his or her
authorized representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the
piping system or systems or water use within the customer’s premises. The
consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Manager of the
Water Department for the verification of information submitted by the
inspection consumer to the public water supply custodian regarding cross-
connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other
plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions;
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical devices
shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions; and
      (4)   (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and
at least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4 as
now or hereafter amended.
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Serving performed and date completed.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.067 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 680. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving premises, where in the judgment of the
Manager of the Water Department, actual or potential hazards to the public
water supply system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises have an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Manager of the Water
Department and the source is approved by the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Manager of the Water Department;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Manager of the Water Department and/or the Cross-Connection Control Device
Inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connection exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connection to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to the following
types of facilities, unless the Manager of the Water Department determines that
no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply systems exists:
      (1)   Hospital, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatments plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plaiting industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Case washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.068 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
50.067 of this chapter shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as
follows.
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
50.067(B)(4) and (B)(5) of this chapter shall be an approved fixed proper air
gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; and
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.069 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   (1)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions.
      (2)   Maintenance, as recommended by the manufacturer of the device,
shall be performed.
      (3)   Manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be available on site.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.070 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices, required by these regulations, are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check vale assembles shall be inspected and tested at the
time of installation, and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation, and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   (1)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by
the Agency as competent to service the device.
      (2)   Proof of approval shall be in writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired at the expense of the consumer
without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Manager of the Water Department.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.071 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such a pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the Manager
of the Water Department, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 50.072 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Manager of the Water Department shall deny or discontinue, after a
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Manager of the Water Department, or if it is found that the backflow prevention
device has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection
exists on the premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these
regulations is not installed and maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with this chapter and to the satisfaction of the Manager of the Water
Department, and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with this chapter and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Public
Works.
   (D)   Neither the Water Department, village or its agents or assigns shall
be liable to any customers of the of Water Department for any injury, damages
or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water
supply in accordance with the terms of this subchapter, whether or not said
termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
shall be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter, in
addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the village for any
expense, loss or damage occasioned by the village by reason of such violations,
whether the same was caused before or after notice.
(Ord. 94-267, passed 10-18-1994; Ord. 05-307, passed 10-17-2005) Penalty, see §
50.999
SEWER USE AND USER CHARGE
§ 50.085 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure that the public sewer
system is maintained to properly serve the community while minimizing pollution
of the air, land and watercourses.
   (B)   This subchapter is intended to meet the current requirements of the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for federal grants for construction of
treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-1)
§ 50.086 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Village of Dolton.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the
wastewater collection system for the cost of operation and maintenance, plus
replacement.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. A user of the wastewater collection system including
transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments or places engaged in
selling merchandise or rendering services.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the MANHOLE shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access in order to measure and/or
sample discharge.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of loans, bonds and the like outstanding,
which are applicable to the sanitary sewer system. This charge shall be
computed by dividing the annual debt service by the number of users connected
to the wastewater collection system.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq.) as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
(Pub. Law No. 92-500) and (Pub. Law No. 93-243).
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. Government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II - Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and Implementing Regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL.
      (1)   Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will separate
by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility.
      (2)   A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A user of the wastewater collection system including
establishments engaged in manufacturing activities involving the mechanical or
chemical transformation of materials of substance into products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. A user of the wastewater collection system
including schools, churches, penal institutions and users associated with
federal, state and local governments.
   MSDGC. Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater Chicago.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissible.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the
discharge of pollutants pursuant to § 402 of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1342 as now or hereafter amended.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in Standard Methods.
   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that service one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary (or combined) sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
   REPLACEMENT EXPENDITURES. Expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service
life of the wastewater collection system to maintain the capacity and
performance for which the system was designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the wastewater collection system including all
dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments and permanent multi-
family dwellings.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the wastewater collection system.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration for flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Waterworks Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STATE ACT. The state’s Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, being 30 ILCS 405/
1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
   STATE GRANT. The state’s participation in the financing of the construction
of treatment works as provided for by the state’s Anti-Pollution Bond Act and
for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the state.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SURCHARGE. An assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than normal concentration values.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USEFUL LIFE. The period during which the wastewater collection system will
be operated.
   USER CLASS. The type of user of the wastewater collection system:
“residential”; “commercial”; “industrial”; or “institutional/governmental”, as
defined in this section.
   WASTEWATER.
      (1)   The spent water of a community.
      (2)   It may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. The structures, equipment and processes
required to collect and transport wastes to the interceptor sewers of the
Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater Chicago.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
      (1)   The charge per billing period levied on all users of the wastewater
collection system.
      (2)   The service charge shall be computed as outlined in §
50.092 of this chapter.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the water pollution regulations of the
state.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-2)
§ 50.087 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village in any area under the jurisdiction of the village any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the village
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the
village, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 90
days after date of official notice to do so; provided that, said public sewer
is within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-3-1) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.088 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No authorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the village.
   (B)   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful, except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the village. A permit and inspection
fee of $50 for a residential, commercial or industrial building sewer permit
shall be paid to the village at the time the application is filed. The
industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide information
describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of activity.
   (D)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment facilities
have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently handle the
additional anticipated waste load.
   (E)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except that, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found to meet all requirements of this subchapter. This
determination will be made upon examination and test by the village, all costs
to be borne by the applicant.
   (H)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   (I)   The building sewer shall be brought to the building in accordance with
village ordinances and division (B) above.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such
connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the village before
installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the village
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the village
representative.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-3-2) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.089 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the
village. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged on approval of the village to a storm sewer, combined sewer or
natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the
sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and five-tenths or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the village and MSDGC that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the village and MSDGC representatives will give consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits
established by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0°
and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the village for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and nine-tenths;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of five-hundredths
mg/l as Hg at any time, except as permitted by the village in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the village in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations;
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in Ch. 1, EPA Rules and
Regulations, Subch. D, Water Programs Part 128 - Pretreatment Standards,
Federal Register Volume 38, No. 215, Thursday, 11-8-1973, and any amendments
thereto, and which in the judgment of the village and/or MSDGC may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the village and/or MSDGC may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the
provisions of division (J) below.
      (2)   If the village and MSDGC permit the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the village, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the village and/or MSDGC, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the village and MSDGC and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the village and/or MSDGC, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the village and
MSDGC. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and
shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (I)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this subchapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village and/or MSDGC. The number,
type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner shall be
as stipulated by the village and/or MSDGC, but no less than once per year the
industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater
discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state and local standards
are being met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and
laboratory analyses to the village and MSDGC at such times and in such manner
as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the village and/or MSDGC. At
such times as deemed necessary, the village and/or MSDGC reserve the right to
take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   (J)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
   (K)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village, MSDGC and
any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the village for transmission, and MSDGC for
treatment, subject to payment therefor in accordance with §
50.092 of this chapter by the industrial concern; provided, such payments are
in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-3-3) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.090 PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-3-4) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.091 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The duly authorized employees of the village, the Metropolitan
Sanitary District of Greater Chicago, the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials
and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter. The village representative shall have
no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical,
oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the duly authorized employees of the village, the
Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater Chicago, the state’s Environmental
Protection Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the village employees and
the village shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property
by employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
50.089(H) of this chapter.
   (C)   The duly authorized employees of the village bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-3-5)
§ 50.092 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Basis for wastewater service charges.
      (1)   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service
supplied by the wastewater collection system of the village shall consist of a
user charge for operation and maintenance costs, plus replacement, and a debt
service charge.
      (2)   The debt service charge shall be computed by dividing the annual
debt service of all outstanding loans, bonds and the like by the annual
billable flow. Through further divisions, the quarterly debt service charges
can be computed.
      (3)   The basic user rate shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters. It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus
replacement and shall be computed as follows: estimate the projected annual
revenue required to operate and maintain the wastewater collection system
including a replacement fund for the year, for all work categories. Compute
costs per units of billable flow (basic user rate). For each user, multiply the
amount of water used by the basic user rate.
      (4)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually by certified public accountants for the village in their annual audit
report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs
including replacement costs.
   (B)   Measurement of flow. The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of 100 cubic feet.
      (1)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures
any part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public
waterworks system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers,
the person shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a
type approved by the village for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
      (2)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
the metered water consumption records.
      (3)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is cancelled,
without the consent of the village.
   (C)   Debt service charge. A debt service charge of $0 per 100 cubic feet
shall be applied to each user of the wastewater collection system of the
village.
   (D)   Basic user rate.
      (1)   There shall be and there is hereby established a basic user rate
for the use and for service supplied by the wastewater collection system of the
village.
      (2)   The sewer service is added as a separate item to the water bill for
the village’s customers. A basic user rate of 20% of the gross water bill shall
be applied to all users of the wastewater collection system.
      (3)   All non-metered users of the wastewater collection system
facilities shall pay a minimum flat rate charge per quarter adequate to cover
the costs of the basic user rate.
   (E)   Surcharges. All surcharges for wastes exceeding a BOD of 25 pounds per
day or suspended solids of 35 pounds per day are covered in the Metropolitan
Sanitary District of Greater Chicago User Charge Ordinance, adopted 10-4-1979.
No additional surcharges shall be assessed by the village to users of the
wastewater collection system.
   (F)   Computation of wastewater service charge. The wastewater service
charge shall be computed by the following formula:
CW = (CR + CD) x V
      where:   CW = wastewater service charge per quarter
            CR = basic user rate
            CD = debt service charge
            V = Volume of water used per quarter
   (G)   Sewer maintenance fee. All residential customers charged for sewer
usage shall be charged a fee of $5 per month of purposes of sewer maintenance.
In the case of multi-family residential buildings, the charge shall be imposed
on a per-unit basis, regardless of the number of meters servicing the building.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-4-1) (Ord. passed 9-20-1983; Ord. 87-20, passed 1-13-1987;
Ord. 09-480, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 17-024, passed 8-3-2017; Ord. 17-027, passed
8-21-2017)
§ 50.093 GENERAL BILLING AND REVENUE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Bills.
      (1)   Said rates or charges for service shall be payable quarterly. The
owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall
be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such premises and the
service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition
that the owner of the premises, the occupant and the user of the services are
jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
      (2)   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the village on the
first day of the quarter succeeding the period for which the service is billed.
      (3)   All sewer bills are due and payable 20 days after being sent out.
   (B)   Delinquent bills. If the charges for such services are not paid within
60 days hereinabove mentioned after the rendition of the bill for such
services, such services shall be discontinued without further notice and shall
not be reinstated until all claims are settled.
   (C)   Lien; notice of delinquency.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for 60 days for
quarterly service after it has been rendered, the village shall file with the
county’s Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall
contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid
bill and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount as well as for
all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      (2)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the village has notice of this notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his or her address be known to the village whenever such bill
remains unpaid for the period of 105 days for a quarterly bill after it has
been rendered.
      (3)   The failure of the village to record such lien or to make such
notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in division (D)
below.
   (D)   Foreclosure of lien.
      (1)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for
non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens.
      (2)   Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in-equity in the name of the
village.
      (3)   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction
over such matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid
105 days in the case of a quarterly bill after it has been rendered.
   (E)   Revenues.
      (1)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the
wastewater collection system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the
Sewerage Fund. All such revenues and moneys shall be held by the village
separate and apart from private funds and separate and apart from all other
funds of the village and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever,
shall be delivered to the village not more than ten days after receipt of the
same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed
by the President and Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The village shall receive all such revenues from the wastewater
collection system and all other funds and moneys incident to the operation of
such system as the same may be delivered and deposit the same in the account of
the fund designated as the “Sewerage Fund of the Village”. Such Fund shall be
administered in every respect in the manner provided by statute of the Revised
Cities and Villages Act, effective January, 1942, being 65 ILCS 20/0.01 et seq.
as now or hereafter amended.
   (F)   Accounts.
      (1)   The village shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and at
regular annual intervals shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
wastewater collection system.
      (2)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
collection system, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet these regulations.
      (3)   In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall also include the following:
         (a)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
         (b)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
         (c)   Number of users connected to the system; and
         (d)   Number of non-metered users.
   (G)   Notice of rates.
      (1)   Each user will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are
attributable to the wastewater collection system.
      (2)   A copy of this subchapter properly certified by the village shall
be filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county and shall also be
deemed notice to all owners of real estate, of the charges of the wastewater
collection system of the village on their properties.
   (H)   Access to records. The state’s Environmental Protection Agency or
authorized representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and
records of the village which are applicable to the village system of user
charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and
general conditions to any state grant.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-4-2) (Ord. passed 9-20-1983)
§ 50.094 EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES.
   The rates and service charges established for user charges in §
50.093 of this chapter shall be effective immediately upon passage, approval
and publication as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-4-3)
§ 50.095 APPEALS.
   (A)   The method for computation of rates and service charges established
for user charges in §
50.092 of this chapter shall be made available to a user within five days of
receipt of a written request for such.
   (B)   A formal written appeal may be filed with the village outlining any
discrepancies regarding service charges.
   (C)   A resolution of such discrepancies shall be made by the village within
seven days after receipt of a written appeal.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-4-4) (Ord. passed 9-20-1983)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, association, agent or legal
representative violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a
penalty in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7-11)
   (B)   (1)   If an individual is found in violation of any provisions of §
50.024 of this chapter, in addition to any criminal action the village may
bring and such charges as may be assessed pursuant to §
50.023 of this chapter, such individual shall be subject to a fine up to and
including $1,500.
      (2)   Any violation of any provision of this section, unless otherwise
provided for, may be enforced pursuant to §§
10.030 through
10.043 of this code of ordinances, and as amended from time to time, which
provides for the administrative adjudication of certain ordinance violations.
The Village Administrator may also direct the Village Prosecutor or the Village
Attorney to proceed before any court having competent jurisdiction to enforce §
50.024 of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
50.027 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in an amount not to exceed
$750.
   (D)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
50.085 through
50.095 of this chapter, except §
50.090 of this chapter, shall be served by the village with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. The village may
revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any
provision of §§
50.085 through
50.095 of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (D)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.085 through
50.095 of this chapter shall become liable to the village by reason of such
violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-3-6)
      (4)   Any person violating any provisions of §
50.093 of this chapter shall be fined according to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-4-2)
(Ord. passed 9-20-1983; Ord. 07-385, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 16-006, passed 3-7-
2016)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND WASTE
Section
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Prohibited accumulations and deposits
   
51.003   Waste storage regulations
   
51.004   Collection and disposal requirements
   
51.005   Waste disposal firms
   
51.006   Waste removal and disposal by other than the village or licensed firm
   
51.007   Vehicle requirements
   
51.008   Prohibited acts
   
51.009   Supervision and enforcement
 
   
51.999   Penalty
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic kitchen waste, paper and food wrappings.
   WASTE. Domestic garbage, refuse, ashes, tin cans, bottles, cartons, books,
newspapers, boxes and other household trash including, but not limited to,
discarded household furniture, furnishings, fixtures and appliances of all
kinds, manure, dead animals or parts thereof.
   WASTE CONTAINER. Village of Dolton or disposal company supplied 90-gallon
containers or similar containers.
   YARD WASTE. Tree leaves, grass clippings, plant stalks and other brush.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-1) (Ord. 95-293, passed 12-19-1995)
§ 51.002 PROHIBITED ACCUMULATIONS AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Prohibited accumulations.
      (1)   No person shall permit any waste to accumulate on his or her
premises, except in covered waste containers or except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
      (2)   All commercial and industrial establishments and all apartments or
other buildings occupied by more than two family units shall remove or cause to
be removed all waste at least once each seven days, or more often if necessary,
to protect the health and safety of the inhabitants of the village.
   (B)   Combustible refuse; deposits on public ways or vacant property. It
shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such a way as to
create a fire hazard or to store or throw away any refuse of any kind on any
street, alley or other public place including vacant property in the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-2) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003 WASTE STORAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Waste containers required use. Every person in possession of any
premises in the village where persons reside shall provide for each family unit
residing therein, and at all times maintain in good order and repair, a
sufficient number of waste containers for a weekly accumulation of normal
waste. Every person in possession of any premises shall cause to be deposited
in such waste containers all waste.
   (B)   Preparation of garbage and waste for storage.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every person in possession of any premises
to cause all garbage brought on or produced on the premises to be thoroughly
drained of all surplus liquid, securely wrapped in paper or packed in a covered
box or carton of such dimensions as will permit its free passage into and out
of the waste container, and finally deposited, after such wrapping, in such
waste container as soon as practicable after the same is produced or brought
therein or thereon. Waste containers to which garbage is frozen through failure
to observe these regulations and all containers which are other than as
specified in this chapter will not be serviced by the waste disposal crews of
the village.
      (2)   Materials of every character shall be securely wrapped or bound in
such manner as may be necessary to prevent the scattering of same by the wind
and shall be deposited in a waste container or otherwise deposited as
prescribed herein.
      (3)   All waste of a size or nature which renders it unsuitable for
deposit in waste containers shall be placed on the ground at the designated
pickup point in neat and orderly bundles or stacks not to exceed 50 pounds in
weight or one foot six inches by four feet in size, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Flammable and explosive materials. Highly inflammable or explosive
material shall not be placed in containers for regular collection, but shall be
disposed of at the expense of the owner or possessor in accordance with the
directions of Chairperson of the Streets and Alleys Committee.
   (D)   Containers.
      (1)   All waste containers shall be as defined in §
51.001 of this chapter and no other type of container shall be acceptable.
Filthy, leaking or defective receptacles shall be cleansed, repaired or
replaced as directed by the Chairperson of the Streets and Alleys Committee, or
the Health Inspector, or their respective representatives. All containers shall
be disinfected with an effective antiseptic solution as often as it is
necessary to maintain them in a sanitary condition. Evidence of neglect of
these requirements or unsafe containers shall be determined by the Chairperson
of the Streets and Alleys Committee, or the Health Inspector, or their
respective representatives.
      (2)   All waste containers shall be subject to inspection and approval or
condemnation by inspectors of the Department of Streets and Alleys or the
Health Department of the village.
   (E)   Location of containers.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every person in possession of any premises
in the village for which a waste container is provided to place the same at a
location designated by the Chairperson of the Streets and Alleys Committee or
his or her representative in order that the same may be conveniently and
economically serviced. It shall be unlawful for any person to place any such
waste container within the alley, street or walkway except where there is no
parkway between such walkway and the street of the village and except as
otherwise provided herein.
      (2)   In all cases when a waste container is placed on the rear of a lot
for the purpose of having its contents removed, it shall be immediately
adjacent to the lot line, and when it is placed at the curb line, it shall be
immediately adjacent to the curb.
      (3)   In all cases when a waste container is placed on the front of any
residential lot for the purpose of having its contents collected, the container
shall not be placed on the front of said lot before the hour of 3:00 p.m. on
the day preceding the collection, and it shall be removed before the hour of 7:
00 p.m. on the day of collection.
   (F)   Village waste containers. The village shall provide two 16-yard waste
containers to be located upon the village public works facility at the
direction of the Superintendent of Public Works. The containers shall be for
use of the village residents only. Wastes accumulated from the operation of lot
cleaning or clearing and building contractors’ waste shall not be permitted to
be deposited in said containers by any person.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-3) (Ord. passed 6-14-1983; Ord. 20-005, passed 3-2-2020)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. All waste shall be called for and disposed of by the
Department of Streets and Alleys of the village, and shall not be collected or
disposed of in any other manner, except by building or other contractors within
the village or as hereinafter provided. All waste containers containing any
waste shall be emptied and all waste removed at least once each seven days, or
more frequently if so determined as necessary by the Chairperson of the Streets
and Alleys Committee or the Health Inspector. If the waste is of such character
or quantity that the crews making the scheduled pickups are not required to
collect the same, then the person in possession of such premises shall
immediately make a request for special services from the village. Charges as
designated in division (F) below shall be made for such special services.
   (B)   Regular collections required. Every person in possession of any
premises in the village who has not arranged for disposal of waste by other
than the village shall be required to have accumulations of waste collected and
disposed of regularly by the village. The occupancy of any premises for
residential purposes shall be prima facie evidence that waste is being produced
and accumulated on such premises, and it shall be the duty of the designated
representatives of the village, in the absence of proof satisfactory to the
Chairperson of the Streets and Alleys Committee, that other means of waste
collection and disposal have been contracted for or provided, to inspect the
premises and remove therefrom any and all waste found therein.
   (C)   Collection schedule. For the purpose of fulfilling the requirements of
this chapter, the Chairperson of the Streets and Alleys Committee of the
Village Board is hereby authorized and directed to cause all waste, as defined
in §
51.001 of this chapter, to be collected regularly and systematically at least
once each seven days, throughout the village, except as otherwise provided.
   (D)   Village service to apartments and commercial and industrial
establishments. Apartments containing more than two family units and commercial
and industrial establishments shall not have waste removed by the village,
except with the approval of the Chairperson of the Streets and Alleys
Committee, and only when such removal is deemed to be to the best interests of
the village.
   (E)   Waste collection fee. The fee to be charged for the removal of waste
shall be fixed at $18.29 per month per tote/waste disposal container and shall
be collected quarterly. This fee shall be payable along with, and in the same
manner as municipal water bills and the failure of any party to make payment as
required shall entitle the village to file a lien against the property in the
same manner as provided for in the case of water charges.
   (F)   Special village services.
      (1)   If the amount of waste accumulation by any family unit shall
include in any monthly period in excess of two cubic yards of trees, tree
branches, tree roots, tree trunks, brush or shrubs, or shall include in any
weekly period in excess of four bushels of building material debris, any such
excess waste may be removed by the village and the village shall charge fees
not to exceed the following for such waste:
         (a)   Ten dollars per cubic yard for each cubic yard of trees, tree
branches, tree roots, tree trunks, brush and shrubs; and
         (b)   Fifteen dollars per cubic yard for each cubic yard of building
material debris.
      (2)   Wastes accumulated from the operation of lot cleaning or clearing
and building contractor’s waste caused by building, rebuilding or otherwise
altering a building or structure shall be removed by the person or building
contractor performing such work; except that, the village may remove such waste
materials at a charge based upon the rate hereinabove established.
      (3)   All fees due the village for the special services, and beyond that
specified as regular service herein, shall be collected by the village at the
time such services are rendered.
   (G)   Tree branches, roots and the like. Tree branches must be cut in
lengths of no greater than five feet and bundled. Tree roots and logs must be
set out on the parkway. Tree leaves, grass clippings, plant stalks and other
brush must be placed in paper biodegradable bags and placed on parkways for
pick up on regular garbage pickup days. Only bio-degradable paper bags will be
picked up. Garbage waste and yard waste will be picked up on a one time weekly
basis as scheduled on the parkways at the front of each house. Alley dumping is
not permitted within the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-4) (Ord. 88-136, passed 7-26-1988; Ord. 95-293, passed 12-
19-1995; Ord. 07-410, passed 8-6-2007; Ord. 12-569, passed 9-4-2012) Penalty,
see §
51.999
§ 51.005 WASTE DISPOSAL FIRMS.
   (A)   License required; fees. No person, operating as a waste disposal firm,
shall remove waste from any premises in the village or transport waste through
the streets, alleys or public ways of the village or dump, incinerate or in any
other manner dispose of waste originating in the limits of the village or
contract for or permit himself, herself or itself to be employed or engaged for
any such removal, transportation or disposal without first having secured a
license for performing such waste disposal service from the Village Clerk
evidencing the payment to the village of the following license fee: for waste
collection and disposal service only to commercial and industrial
establishments and to premises with more than two family apartment units, the
annual license fee per such business shall be established by ordinance as set
forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.18(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Application for license; approval. Before issuing the license, the
Village Clerk shall require the execution of an application showing the name of
the person to be licensed, together with the business and home addresses and
telephone numbers of each such person; description of the equipment to be used
in such collection, transportation and disposal; the list by name and address
of person, firm or corporation for whom such removal is made; the
specifications of the vehicle in which it is transported; the site location of
and the manner in which the ultimate disposition of the waste is to be
accomplished. The application shall then be submitted by the Village Clerk to,
and shall be approved by, the Chairperson of the Streets and Alleys Committee
and the Health Inspector of the village as a prerequisite to the issuance of
such license. Any change in the data required in the license application shall
be filed with the village monthly.
   (C)   Number of licenses issued. The total number of licenses for waste
disposal service to be issued shall not exceed four.
   (D)   Schedule of fees on file. A schedule of the fees charged by every
licensed waste disposal firm shall be on file at the Village Hall and shall
require the approval of the Village President and Board of Trustees based upon
the provisions of this chapter before becoming effective.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-5) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 51.006 WASTE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL BY OTHER THAN THE VILLAGE OR LICENSED FIRM.
   No garbage shall be burned, dumped or buried within the village limits,
except upon written permit of the Chairperson of the Street and Alleys
Committee or the Health Inspector and as they may direct in conformity with
recognized sanitation practices. In all cases in which waste is removed and
disposed of by persons other than the village or a licensed waste disposal
firm, it shall be done under the direct supervision of the Chairperson of the
Streets and Alleys Committee or the Health Inspector of the village or their
respective representatives.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-6) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall transport waste or cause waste to be transported over
the streets or other public ways in the village unless such waste being
transported is entirely and securely covered. Garbage shall not be transported
over or along the streets of the village or other public property thereof,
except in a liquid-tight bed approved by the Chairperson of the Streets and
Alleys Committee or the Health Officer.
   (B)   Any vehicle used by a scavenger or waste disposal contractor in his or
her business shall be water-tight and equipped with air-tight covers for such
portions as are used for the transportation of refuse.
   (C)   No vehicle used in carrying on the business of a scavenger shall,
without necessity therefor, stand or remain before or near any building, place
of business or other premises; nor shall any such vehicle take an unreasonable
length of time in loading or unloading or in passing along any street or
through any inhabited place or ground; nor shall any such vehicle, or the
driver thereof, or anything thereto pertaining, be (or by any person having a
right to control the same be allowed to be) in a condition needlessly filthy or
offensive; and, when not in use, all such vehicles and all implements used in
connection therewith shall be stored and kept in some place where no needless
offense shall be given to any of the inhabitants of the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-7) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.008 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Ragpicking; collecting garbage and waste. No person shall be permitted
to get or collect or remove from any street, alley or other public places in
the village any garbage, refuse, ashes, manure or miscellaneous waste, as
defined in §
51.001 of this chapter. This prohibition shall not apply to any person who has
received specific approval and permission from the Village President and Board
of Trustees to collect junk, wastepaper or similar articles.
   (B)   Sorting rags, paper and junk in public. It shall be unlawful for any
person to pick, sort, pack or unpack rags, paper, iron, old bottles or junk, or
to transfer same from one vehicle to another, upon any public street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place in the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-8)
   (C)   Open dumping, fly dumping.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (C), the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         LITTER. Any discarded, used or consumed substance or waste, or
anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which has been discarded,
abandoned or otherwise improperly disposed of.
         OPEN DUMPING or ILLEGAL DUMPING or FLY DUMPING. The consolidation of
refuse from one or more sources at a disposal site that does not fulfill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill or the dumping of any waste material on
public or private property without a permit. The dumping can be any thing, but
also includes tires, old furniture, household garbage, construction debris,
landscaping debris or yard waste, appliances, hazardous waste (generally dumped
in drums or barrels) and the like.
         PERSON. Includes, among others, individuals, corporations, political
subdivisions.
         WASTE. Refuse which, in turn, denotes any garbage, grudge or other
discarded material, and all other meanings of the word.
      (2)   No person shall, within the limits of the village, do any of the
following:
         (a)   Cause or allow the open dumping of any waste;
         (b)   Abandon, dump or deposit any waste upon the public highways or
other public property, except in an Environmental Protection Agency approved
sanitary landfill;
         (c)   Cause or allow the open dumping of any waste in a manner, which
results in litter;
         (d)   Disposition of construction, demolition, yard waste or
landscaping debris or hazardous materials;
         (e)   Deposition of waste in standing or flowing waters; and
         (f)   Proliferation of disease vectors.
      (3)   Residents who sign a formal complaint regarding fly dumping, and
the complaint results in an arrest, will receive a reward of $500.
(Ord. 08-432, passed 4-7-2008) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.009 SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   All matters relating to or affecting the accumulation, collection, removal
or disposal of waste, unless specifically otherwise assigned by the President
and Board of Trustees, shall be subject to and under the supervision of the
Department of Public Works; except that, the village’s Police Department is
authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-9) (Ord. passed 5-13-1980)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, where no other penalty is provided, shall be punished by a fine as set
forth in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Each day any violation of any provision of
this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-10)
   (B)   The violation of any provision of §
51.005 of this chapter, with the exception of §
51.005(D) of this chapter, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-9-5)
   (C)   Any person found to have violated any provision of §
51.008(C) of this chapter shall be subject to the following penalty(ies):
      (1)   Fine. A penalty of $2,500 for each violation of each such
provision; except that, the penalty amount imposed will be $3,000 for each
violation of any provision of §
51.008(C) of this chapter that is violator’s second or subsequent adjudicated
violation of any provision of §
51.008(C) of this chapter. The recipient of a citation may contest the issuance
of the citation and is entitled to a hearing on the citation pursuant to §§
10.030 through
10.043 of this code of ordinances. Failure of the recipient of the citation to
appear at the court date will constitute a default; and
      (2)   Impoundment of vehicle.
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is used in violation of §
51.008(C) of this chapter prohibiting open dumping or “fly” dumping shall be
subject to seizure and impoundment under this division (C)(2). The owner of
record of such vehicle shall be liable to the village for an administrative
penalty of $1,000 in addition to the fees for the towing and storage of the
vehicle, and fines or penalties that may be imposed under division (C)(1)
above.
         (b)   Whenever a police officer or village official has probable cause
to believe that a vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to
this section, a village police officer shall provide for the towing of the
vehicle to a facility controlled by the village or its agents. When the vehicle
is towed, the police officer shall notify the person who is found to be in
control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is such a
person, of the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner’s right to request
a preliminary hearing to be conducted under §§
10.030 through
10.043 of this code of ordinances. The provisions of §§
10.030 through
10.043 of this code of ordinances shall apply whenever a motor vehicle is
seized and impounded pursuant to §
51.008(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986; Ord. 08-432, passed 4-7-2008; Ord. 15-021,
passed 6-1-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   VEHICLE LICENSES
      
72.   VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
      
73.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
74.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
75.   ABANDONED, HAZARDOUS AND UNLAWFUL VEHICLES
      
76.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
77.   PEDESTRIANS
      
78.   RAILROADS
      
79.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
80.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Obedience to police
   
70.003   Traffic at scene of fire
   
70.004   Animals or bicycles
   
70.005   Accidents
   
70.006   Driving under the influence of liquor or drugs
   
70.007   Exemptions from provisions
   
70.008   Enforcement
Traffic-Control Signs and Signals
   
70.020   Legend
   
70.021   Flashing signals
   
70.022   Unauthorized signs and signals
   
70.023   Interference with signs and signals
   
70.024   Advertising signs
   
70.025   Disobeying traffic-control devices
Automated Traffic Law Enforcement System
   
70.040   Detection
   
70.041   Signage
   
70.042   Notice of violation
   
70.043   Penalty and final determination of violation liability
   
70.044   Defenses
   
70.045   Administrative adjudication
   
70.046   Powers of the Hearing Officer
   
70.047   Powers of the Traffic Compliance Administrator
   
70.048   Code Hearing Unit
   
70.049   Service of violation notices
   
70.050   Adjudicative hearing
   
70.051   Collection of fines and penalties
   
70.052   Notice of impending driver’s license suspension
   
70.053   Procedures for non-residents
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this traffic code shall, for the purpose of
this title, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in 625 ILCS as now
or hereafter amended.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 70.002 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department and auxiliary police assigned to
traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the
provisions of this title, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience may
require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer. Except in case
of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to
direct or attempt to direct traffic.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any motor vehicle
who, having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing
such driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, to willfully
fail or refuse to obey such direction, to increase his or her speed, to
extinguish his or her lights or otherwise flee or attempt to evade the police
officer. The signal given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren,
red or blue light and the officer giving such signal shall be in a police
uniform, and, if driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked showing it to
be an official police vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.003 TRAFFIC AT SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command, or any firefighter designated by him
or her, may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene, in
the absence of or in assisting the police.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 70.004 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Any person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this traffic code
applicable to the driver of the vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.005 ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle which has collided with, or been in an accident with
any vehicle, person or property in such a manner as to cause injury or damage,
shall stop immediately and render such assistance as may be possible, and give
his or her true name and residence to the injured person or any other person
requesting the same on behalf of the injured person, or the owner of the
property damaged, and to a police officer, if one is present. The driver of
each vehicle concerned in any such accident shall report to the nearest police
authority promptly after such accident.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6)
§ 70.006 DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor may
drive or be in actual physical control of any vehicle within the village.
      (2)   Upon the trial of any action or proceeding arising out of acts
alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in actual
physical control of a vehicle under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
evidence of the amount of alcohol in the person’s blood at the time of the act
alleged as shown by a chemical analysis of his or her breath, blood, urine,
saliva or other bodily substance is admissible, as provided hereinafter in this
section, and the result of any such analysis shall give rise to the following
presumptions:
         (a)   If there was at the time of such analysis 0.05% or less by
weight of alcohol in the person’s blood, it shall be presumed that the person
was not under the influence of intoxicating liquor;
         (b)   If there was at the time of such analysis in excess of 0.05%,
but less than 0.10%, by weight of alcohol in the person’s blood, such fact
shall not give rise to any presumption that such person was or was not under
the influence of intoxicating liquor, but such fact may be considered with
other competent evidence in determining whether such person was under the
influence of intoxicating liquor;
         (c)   If there was at the time of such analysis 0.10% or more by
weight of alcohol in the person’s blood, it shall be presumed that the person
was under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
      (3)   Percent by weight of alcohol in the blood shall be based upon
milligrams of alcohol per 100 cubic centimeters of blood.
   (B)   No person who is an habitual user of or under the influence of any
narcotic drug or who is under the influence of any other drug to a degree which
renders him or her incapable of safely driving a vehicle may drive or be in
actual physical control of any vehicle within the village. The fact that a
person charged with a violation of this section is or has been entitled to use
such drug under the laws of the state does not constitute a defense against any
charge of violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7)
   (C)   (1)   The owner of record of any motor vehicle that contains any
controlled substance or cannabis, as defined in the Controlled Substances Act,
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq., and the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.,
or that is used in the purchase, attempt to purchase, sale or attempt to sell
such controlled substances or cannabis shall be liable to the city for an
administrative penalty of $1,000, plus any applicable towing and storage fees.
Any such vehicle shall be subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
controlled by the city or its agent. When the vehicle is towed, the police
officer shall notify any person identifying himself or herself as the owner of
the vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the
seizure and of the vehicle owner’s right to request a preliminary hearing to be
conducted hereunder.
      (3)   The provisions hereof shall apply whenever a motor vehicle in
seized and impounded pursuant to this section.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall drive or be in actual physical control of any
vehicle within the village while under the influence of alcohol, other drug or
drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination thereof, as
defined and prohibited by state statutes and 625 ILCS 5/11-501, as amended.
      (2)   Any vehicle used in a violation of division (D)(1) above shall be
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section. The owner of
record of such vehicle shall be liable to the city for an administrative
penalty of $1,000 in addition to fees for the towing and storage of the
vehicle.
      (3)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this division (D),
the police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
controlled by the city or its agents. When the vehicle is towed, the police
officer shall notify the person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at
the time of the alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of
the seizure and of the vehicle owner’s right to request a preliminary hearing
to be conducted hereunder.
(Ord. 05-316, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 70.007 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   (a)   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the movement
of vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle
when responding to an emergency call, but such driver upon approaching a red or
stop signal or any stop sign shall slow down as necessary for safety, but may
proceed cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal.
         (b)   At other times, drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall
stop in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
      (2)   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any
special privileges under the provisions of this traffic code, except when such
vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or in the immediate
pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law.
   (B)   Public works vehicles. The provisions of this title regulating the
movement of vehicles shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while actively
engaged in installing, repairing or otherwise improving streets or street
pavement.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8)
§ 70.008 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authority to impound vehicles; notice.
      (1)   Authority to impound vehicles; notice. Members of the Police
Department are authorized to remove a vehicle from a street or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the Police Department, or otherwise maintained by the village
under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
         (a)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct or
causeway, or in any tube or tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction
to traffic;
         (b)   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the persons in charge of the vehicle are, by reason
of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable or
unwilling to provide for its custody or removal;
         (c)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic;
         (d)   When any vehicle is left unattended in violation of any of the
provisions of §
74.004 and
Ch. 80 of this code of ordinances;
         (e)   When any vehicle is parked on private property without the
expressed or implied consent of the owner of the property;
         (f)   When a vehicle is parked or occupies any portion of a parking
lot operated by the village in excess of the maximum time limitations poster in
said lot for the parking of vehicles;
         (g)   When towing or removal is necessary as an incident to an arrest,
or provided by state statutes;
         (h)   When unlawful drugs, firearms or laser light accessory or
fireworks are found in a motor vehicle;
         (i)   When the owner of a motor vehicle is found to have been driving
under the influence of alcohol or other drugs; and/or
         (j)   When a motor vehicle has been used in the solicitation of
prostitution.
      (2)   Notice of impoundment.
         (a)   Notice to owner. When an officer removes a vehicle from a street
as authorized in this section and the officer knows or is able to ascertain
from the registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner
thereof, the officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in
writing to the owner of the fact of the removal and the reasons therefor and of
the place to which the vehicle has been removed. In the event the vehicle is
stored in a public garage, a copy of the notice shall be given to the
proprietor of that garage.
         (b)   Notice when owner is unknown.
            1.   When an officer removes a vehicle from a street under this
section and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of the owner,
or for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as provided
in this section, and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the owner
within a period of three days, then, and in that event, the officer shall
immediately send or cause to be sent a written report of the removal by mail to
the state department whose duty it is to register motor vehicles and shall file
a copy of the notice with the proprietor of any public garage in which the
vehicle may be stored.
            2.   The notice shall include a complete description of the
vehicle, the date, time and place from which removed, the reason for the
removal and the name of the garage or place, where the vehicle is stored.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-1)
   (B)   Arrests.
      (1)   Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this title
shall be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by statute.
      (2)   The police officer in command at the station may, in the absence of
a magistrate or judge, prescribe the amount of bail or bond in each instance;
provided that, any arrested person may, at his or her own request, have the
amount of such bond set by a magistrate or judge as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-2)
(Ord. passed 3-25-1980; Ord. 05-320, passed 11-21-2005)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS AND SIGNALS
§ 70.020 LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “go”, “caution” or “stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively, the following colors only shall be used and said terms and lights
shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Circular green or the word “go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn, but
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk, unless directed otherwise by a pedestrian
signal.
   (B)   Steady yellow or the word “caution”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter or the related green
movement is being terminated, and shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made in safety, a
vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal, pedestrians
facing such signal are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross
the roadway, and no pedestrian shall cross, except upon a green light or go
sign.
   (C)   Steady red or the word “stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line. If there is no such line, then vehicles shall stop
before entering such crosswalk and shall remain standing until the green
indication is shown, unless otherwise directed by a sign or arrow.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway or shall
cross until receiving a green light or go sign or unless and until a separate
“Walk” indication is shown.
   (D)   Green straight through arrow (alone).
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may proceed straight through,
but shall not turn right or left. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right-
of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at
the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
the appropriately marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed otherwise by a
pedestrian signal.
   (E)   Green turn arrow (alone or with circular green, with steady yellow or
with green straight through arrow). Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
comply with the meaning of the circular green, steady yellow or straight
through arrow indication as if it were shown alone; except that, such vehicular
traffic may cautiously enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by
the green turn arrow. Vehicular traffic shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully within a crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
   (F)   Green arrow alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may enter the
intersection only to make the movement or movements indicated by the arrows,
but shall not interfere with other traffic or endanger pedestrians lawfully
within a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4-1)
§ 70.021 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4-2)
§ 70.022 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector or device which
purports to be, or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of
traffic or effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (B)   (1)   No tree, bush or foliage of any kind shall be so placed,
maintained, allowed to remain or displayed upon either public or private
property in such a manner as to hide from view or interfere with the movement
of traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic-control devices, sign or signal.
      (2)   All such unauthorized devices are hereby declared to be nuisances
and may be removed by any police officer or under his or her direction and
supervision.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4-3) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.023 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4-4) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.024 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the village any sign, signal,
marking or device, other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by the
corporate authorities of the village or the state’s Department of Public Works
and Buildings, which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an
official traffic-control device or railroad sign or signal, in view of any
street or highway, and it shall be unlawful to place or maintain any sign which
hides from view any lawful traffic-control device. It shall be unlawful to
maintain or operate in view of any street or highway any flashing or rotating
beacon of light.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4-5) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.025 DISOBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
corporate authorities.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4)
   (B)   (1)   No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any
official traffic-control device unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel
across private property to avoid a traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4-6)
Penalty, see §
70.999
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM
§ 70.040 DETECTION.
   As used in the subchapter, AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM means a
device within the village with one or more motor vehicle sensors working in
conjunction with a red light signal to produce recorded images of motor
vehicles entering an intersection against a steady or flashing red signal
indication in violation of § 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/
11-306. The automated traffic law enforcement system shall not be used to
enforce speed limit regulations. The recorded images produced by the automated
traffic law enforcement system, which consist of either two or more
photographs, two or more electronic images of a video recording showing the
motor vehicle, shall capture and display images of the vehicle allegedly
violating traffic-control signals, together with the license plate on such
vehicle, and shall also show the time, date and location of the violation.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.041 SIGNAGE.
   Any intersection equipped with an automated traffic law enforcement system
must have a sign posted which is visible to approaching traffic indicating that
the intersection is being monitored by an automated traffic law enforcement
system.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.042 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When the automated traffic law enforcement law system records a motor
vehicle entering an intersection in spite of a steady or flashing red signal
indicating a violation of § 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-
306, this shall be deemed a non-criminal violation for which a civil penalty of
$100 shall be assessed and for which no points shall be assigned by the state’s
Motor Vehicle Code Point System for license suspension to the owner or driver
of the vehicle.
   (B)   The village shall issue a written notice of the violation to the
registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, which shall be delivered by first
class mail within 30 days after the Secretary of State notifies the village of
the identity of the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, and in no event
later than 90 days following the violation. Each notice of violation associated
with an automated traffic law violation shall require a review of the
associated recorded image by an officer or other employee or agent of the
village’s Police Department empowered under this subchapter to determine
whether a red light offense has occurred or whether one of the defenses
enumerated below in §
70.044 of this chapter is visibly applicable upon inspection. Upon
determination that recorded image captures a violation of one of the foregoing
provisions and that no defense applies, the notice of violation shall be served
upon the registered vehicle owner in the manner provided for below. The Traffic
Compliance Administrator shall retain a copy of all violation notices, recorded
images and other correspondence mailed to the alleged violator.
   (C)   Each notice of violation, which shall constitute evidence of facts
contained in the notice and is admissible in any proceeding alleging a
violation of the above-noted statutory and local provisions and shall establish
prima facie evidence of a violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis of the
defenses established in §
70.044 of this chapter, shall include the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the Secretary of State, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a U.S. Post Office approved database;
      (2)   The registration number of the motor vehicle involved in the
violation;
      (3)   The violation charged, with specific reference to that section of
the village’s municipal code allegedly violated;
      (4)   The location where the violation occurred;
      (5)   The date and time of the violation;
      (6)   A copy of the recorded images;
      (7)   The amount of the civil penalty imposed and the date by which the
civil penalty should be paid if liability for the violation is not going to be
contested;
      (8)   A statement that the recorded images are evidence of a violation of
a red light signal;
      (9)   A warning that failure to either pay the civil penalty or to
contest liability within 30 days of the mailing of the notice of violation in
writing or by attending the administrative hearing is an admission of liability
and may result in a suspension of the driving privileges of the registered
owner or lessee of the vehicle in addition to the specified penalties for
failing to appear at the hearing or pay the fine in advance of the hearing; and
      (10)   The date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which
the charge may be contested on its merits, a date that shall be no less than 15
days from the mailing or other service of the first notice of violation;
      (11)   A statement that payment of the indicated fine and of any
applicable penalty for late payment shall constitute a final disposition of the
violation; and
      (12)   The signature of the party reviewing the recorded images and
confirming that a violation took place.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.043 PENALTY AND FINAL DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION LIABILITY.
   (A)   If the civil penalty of $100 referred to in §
70.042 of this chapter is not timely paid or the notice of violation referred
to in §
70.042 of this chapter is not contested timely, a $100 penalty will be assessed
in addition to the original $100 fine by way of “Final Determination of
Violation Liability”.
   (B)   The village, through its Treasurer, Clerk, Police Department, Law
Department, Administrative Adjudication Program and/or any other designated
agent of the village, may establish procedures for the collection of the civil
penalty imposed.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.044 DEFENSES.
   The following are the only defenses available for an alleged violator
contesting his or her liability for a violation, which shall be weighed by the
Hearing Officer and shall only rebut the prima facie case established by the
notice of liability insofar as one or more of the following defenses are
established by a preponderance of the evidence:
   (A)   The motor vehicle or registration plates were stolen before the
violation occurred and were not under the control of or in the possession of
the owner at the time of the violation, which may be demonstrated through the
submission of a certified copy of a report concerning the stolen motor vehicle
or registration plates was filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely
manner;
   (B)   The vehicle was an authorized emergency vehicle;
   (C)   The driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection in spite of
a red light either to yield the right-of-way to an emergency vehicle or as part
of a funeral procession;
   (D)   The license plate number or other source of identification of the
vehicle cannot be determined;
   (E)   The operator of the vehicle received a uniform traffic citation from a
police officer at the time of the violation for the same incident as captured
by the automated traffic law enforcement system and either paid such citation
or successfully contested said citation;
   (F)   The vehicle was leased to another and within 60 calendar days after
the citation was mailed to lessor, lessor submitted to the municipality the
correct name and address of the lessee of the vehicle identified in this notice
of violation at the time of the alleged violation, together with a copy of the
lease agreement, the lessee’s driver’s license number and any additional
information that may be needed; and
   (G)   The respondent was not the registered vehicle owner, lessee or renter
of the cited vehicle at the time of violation.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.045 ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION.
   The village shall utilize its system of administrative adjudication for
vehicular standing and parking violations, violations regarding the display of
municipal stickers/licenses, and automated traffic law violations. The
administrative adjudication system for all violations of the village code
subject to administrative adjudication shall be comprised of a Code Hearing
Unit which shall be comprised of a Hearing Officer and any other officials
deemed necessary, including a Traffic Compliance Administrator with respect to
all parking, standing, condition and use of vehicle equipment, display of
municipal stickers/licenses and automated traffic law regulations, as well as
those other ordinances identified by the ordinances of the village pertaining
to such administrative hearing body. Such officers shall be vested with the
power, authority and limitations as are hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.046 POWERS OF THE HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Hearing Officer shall have all of the powers granted to Hearing
Officers under 65 ILCS 5/1-2.14, the provisions of which are incorporated
herein by reference, including the power to preside over all administrative
hearings as the adjudicator, administer oaths, hear testimony and accept
evidence that is relevant to the existence of the code violation.
   (B)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator and any other official deemed
necessary to implement the system of administrative adjudication shall be
compensated as established annually by the village’s President and Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.047 POWERS OF THE TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall have all of the powers
granted by 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3(b)(1), the provisions which are incorporated
herein by reference.
   (B)   (1)   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the
village’s Board of Trustees, shall appoint a Traffic Compliance Administrator
for a term not to exceed that of the Village President’s current term of
office, who is authorized to adopt, distribute and process parking, compliance
and automated traffic law violation notices, collect money paid as fines and
penalties for the above noted violations, operate an administrative
adjudication system and make certified reports to the Secretary of State
regarding a registered vehicle owner’s failure to pay fines and penalties in
accordance with 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5.
      (2)   The Village Administrator shall act as the Traffic Compliance
Officer unless or until such position is filled by the President and Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.048 CODE HEARING UNIT.
   The Village President is hereby authorized to appoint necessary officers to
establish the Code Hearing Unit and to otherwise comply with the terms herein.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.049 SERVICE OF VIOLATION NOTICES.
   Violation notices must be mailed to the address of the registered owner or
lessee of the cited vehicle as recorded with the Secretary of State within 30
days after the Secretary of State notifies the village of the identity of the
registered vehicle owner, but no later than 90 days after the date of the
violation. If the notice of violation is returned as undeliverable, then the
notice of violation shall be sent to the last known address recorded in a U.S.
Post Office approved database, which notice shall still be sent within 90 days
of the violation.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.050 ADJUDICATIVE HEARING.
   The hearing shall be tape-recorded, and the Hearing Officer conducts the
hearing in accordance with his or her powers and duties, enumerated herein.
Alleged violators who appear at the administrative hearing to contest an
alleged violation may be represented by legal counsel at their own expense,
however, formal rules of evidence shall not apply to the administrative
hearing. The Hearing Officer shall enter either a default judgment or a
determination of liability or non-liability in accordance with consideration of
the facts and testimony, if any, and shall constitute a final determination of
liability from which an appeal may be taken.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.051 COLLECTION OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the village from pursuing
all available remedies, allowed by law, to collect fines and payment of
penalties owed to village.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.052 NOTICE OF IMPENDING DRIVER’S LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   This notice shall be sent via first class U.S. mail, postage prepaid,
to the address recorded with the Secretary of State of any person liable for
any fine or penalty due and owing the village for five or more unpaid automated
traffic law violations. If such mailing is returned as undeliverable, then the
village shall send the notice to the last known address recorded in a U.S. Post
Office approved database. If village subsequently makes a certified report to
the Secretary of State, the subject vehicle owner may challenge the accuracy of
the certified report in writing.
   (B)   To do so, the vehicle owner must submit to the Administrator a written
statement under oath, together with supporting documentation, establishing one
of the following grounds for challenging the accuracy of the certified report:
      (1)   The person was not the owner or lessee of the subject vehicle or
vehicles receiving five or more automated traffic law violations on the date or
dates such violation notices were issued; or
      (2)   The person already paid or penalties for the five or more automated
traffic law violations indicated on the certified report.
   (C)   Such statement and supporting documentation must be sent to the
Administrator by certified mail, return receipt requested, or hand delivered to
the Administrator within five days after the person receives notice from the
Secretary of State that the person’s driver’s license will be suspended at the
end of a specified period of time unless the Secretary is presented with a
notice from the village certifying that the fines or penalties due and owing
have been paid or that the inclusion of the person’s name on the certified
report was in error.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.053 PROCEDURES FOR NON-RESIDENTS.
   Where the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle is not a resident
of the village, but seeks to contest the merits of the alleged violation, such
persons may contest the charges using the same available defenses as stated
above, and the same procedures, they may attend the administrative hearing or
they may submit any and all documentary evidence no later than the hearing date
referenced in the notice of liability, together with a written statement
reflecting that they are non-residents of the village.
(Ord. 14-027, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code, where there is no
provision to the contrary, shall be fined in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-3)
CHAPTER 71: VEHICLE LICENSES
Section
   
71.001   Definition
   
71.002   License required
   
71.003   License application; issuance
   
71.004   License fees
   
71.005   License expiration
   
71.006   License stickers and plates
   
71.007   Display of registration plates
   
71.008   Display of registration plate stickers
 
   
71.999   Penalty
§ 71.001 DEFINITION.
   Whenever the term MOTOR VEHICLE is used in this traffic code, it shall be
construed to include automobiles, locomobiles and all vehicles propelled other
than by muscular power, except traction engines and road rollers, the cars of
steam and electric railways, and other vehicles running only upon rails or
tracks, but nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect bicycles,
tricycles or other vehicles propelled exclusively by muscular power.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 71.002 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every owner of a motor vehicle who resides within the village and
every firm, corporation or other entity having vehicles operating out of a
principal office or place of business within the village shall pay to the
village each year a tax or license fee as prescribed hereinbelow for the use of
each motor vehicle upon any street, highway or alley in the village.
   (B)   A motor vehicle which displays state registration reflecting an
address within the village shall constitute prima facie evidence that the
vehicle is being operated on the streets of the village and shall be construed
to be in violation of this chapter and, therefore, such motor vehicle may
receive a citation anywhere within the village regardless of whether said
vehicle is on public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 14-014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 71.003 LICENSE APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   Any person desiring a license for any such motor vehicle shall file an
application upon a form provided by the office of Comptroller and Revenue
Administrative Services setting forth the name and address of the applicant, a
description of the motor vehicle for which the license is desired, and the
place where such motor vehicle is to be kept when not in use; also, the number
and kind of other motor vehicles kept by such applicant at such place, and such
other information as may be prescribed. Such application shall be transmitted
to the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services and upon
payment to the Village Collector by the applicant of the license fee provided
in this chapter, the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services
shall issue a license which shall be attested by the office of Comptroller and
Revenue Administrative Services authorizing the use of such motor vehicle
within the village until the expiration of such license.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 99-129, passed 11-1-1999; Ord. 01-190, passed 7-23-
2002; Ord. 03-215, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 71.004 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   License fees enumeration.
      (1)   First Division vehicles. The license fees to be paid annually for
the First Division vehicles shall be as follows:
 
Dealer’s plate                                                $45
Motor scooter or bicycle                                        $35
Motor vehicles for non-commercial use and recreational vehicles $40
Motorcycle or motor tricycle                                    $35
Senior citizens (65 years of age or older)                      $5
 
      (2)   Second Division vehicles. The license fees to be paid annually for
a motor truck, tractor, semi-trailer unit or bus, being vehicles of the Second
Division designed and used for carrying of persons, merchandise or material,
shall be based upon the gross weight in pounds of such vehicle, including
maximum load capacity, and shall be as follows:
 
Class B: 8,000 pounds          $45
Class C: 8,001 pounds and over $60
 
      (3)   Transfer and duplications.
 
For transfer of any of the licenses required in this chapter $5
For duplicate license plates or decalcomania devices         $5
 
   (B)   Prorations and penalties.
      (1)   When a license issued under this chapter is issued for period of
less than one year due to the fact that the vehicle was purchased or acquired
on or after December 31 or the party owning the vehicle was not a resident of
the village on December 31, the fee to be paid for the unexpired license period
shall be prorated on a monthly basis from the date of purchase to December 31.
When an annual license required under this chapter has not been purchased by
March 1, or within 30 days after purchase of the vehicle or establishment of
residency in the village, the fee for said license shall be increased by 100%
of the then-applicable license fee.
      (2)   In addition, if it is determined that the individual did not pay
the license fee for vehicle(s) owned during the previous license year, an
additional fee in the amount of 200% of license fees owed for the prior license
year shall also be assessed.
   (C)   Senior citizen discount. The fee for residents who are 65 years of age
or older on or before June 30 shall be discounted to $5 for one such vehicle
owned by such resident. Additional vehicles owned by such resident shall be
subject to the full fee.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. 85-115, passed 7-2-1985; Ord. 90-135, passed 10-16-
1990: Ord. 91-167, passed 11-12-1991; Ord. 93-219, passed 8-3-1993; Ord. 97-
329, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 12-568, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 12-573, passed 9-17-
2012; Ord. 14-014, passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 17-005, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 71.005 LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   All licenses required by this chapter after 6-30-2014 shall expire on
February 15 of the year following the effective date of issuance. For the year
2014, a six-month license shall be issued for one-half of the applicable annual
license fee. The six-month sticker shall expire on 6-30-2014. A new annual
license for the full annual fee shall be issued for a 12-month period
commencing on July 1 of each year and ending June 30 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5) (Ord. 13-022, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 71.006 LICENSE STICKERS AND PLATES.
   (A)   The Village Clerk, upon the issuance of the license required, shall
issue a decalcomania device in the form of a sticker, or a metal plate where
the sticker cannot be used, bearing the number and name or class to which such
vehicle belongs and the year which such license is issued. It shall be the duty
of the licensee to attach such sticker or plate in a conspicuous place on the
front of such vehicle where the same can be plainly seen. In the case of
automobiles, the licensee shall attach such decalcomania device to the lower
right-hand corner of the windshield in such manner as to be easily read from
the outside. In the case of motorcycles or motor tricycles, the license plate
provided for in this chapter shall be placed at the rear thereof.
   (B)   Any person carrying a license plate or decalcomania device on his or
her vehicle shall keep the same clear of dust and mud so that the same can be
plainly seen at all times.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.007 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION PLATES.
   (A)   Definition. Whenever the term MOTOR VEHICLE is used in this section,
it shall mean a self-propelled vehicle, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, motorcycles, motor bicycles, meter scooters, motor trucks, truck
tractors, all vehicles powered by electrical or mechanical power, but excluding
motorized wheelchairs for the disabled.
   (B)   Operation of motor vehicle. It shall be unlawful to own or operate any
motor vehicle within the limits of the village without being in compliance with
Ch. 3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/3-100 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended, especially as pertains to the purchase and proper display of
current registration plates.
   (C)   Registration plates. It shall be unlawful to own or operate any motor
vehicle within the limits of the village unless the appropriate registration
plates are attached, and in the appropriate number and manner pursuant to Ch. 3
of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (D)   Weights and dimensions. It shall be unlawful to own or operate any
motor vehicle within the limits of the village unless it is in compliance with
Ch. 3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code regarding weights and dimensions.
(Ord. 92-190, passed 9-15-1992) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.008 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION PLATE STICKERS.
   (A)   Definition. Whenever the term MOTOR VEHICLE is used in this section,
it shall mean a self-propelled vehicle, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, motorcycles, motor bicycles, motor scooters, motor trucks, truck
tractors, all vehicles powered by electrical or mechanical power, but excluding
motorized wheelchairs for the disabled.
   (B)   Operation of motor vehicle. It shall be unlawful to own or operate any
motor vehicle within the limits of the village without being in compliance with
Ch. 3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/3-100 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended, especially as pertains to the purchase and proper display of
current ration plate stickers.
   (C)   Registration plates. It shall be unlawful to own or operate any motor
vehicle within the limits of the village unless the appropriate registration
plate sticker is attached, pursuant to Ch. 3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 92-191, passed 9-15-1992) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle failing to comply with any
provision of §
71.007 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $250,
for each offenses, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
a violation occurs or continues, pursuant to §
74.006 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle failing to comply with any
provision of §
71.008 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $250,
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
a violation occurs or continues, pursuant to §
74.006 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 92-190, passed 9-15-1992; Ord. 92-191, passed 9-15-1992)
CHAPTER 72: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
Section
   
72.001   Clear vision
   
72.002   Lights and signal devices
   
72.003   Brakes
   
72.004   Horn
   
72.005   Muffler
   
72.006   Tires
   
72.007   Seat safety belts
   
72.008   Size, weight and load
   
72.009   Prohibited conditions
 
   
72.999   Penalty
§ 72.001 CLEAR VISION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any view of the roadway
to the rear so obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to
give him or her a view of the roadway behind him or her.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.002 LIGHTS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle
not equipped with adequate sights conforming to the requirements of the state
law; provided that, vehicles may be parked at nighttime without lights on any
street or portion thereof, designated by law as a place where vehicles may so
park at nighttime.
      (2)   During the period from sunset to sunrise, or at any other time when
visibility is so limited as to require the use of lights for safety, every
motorcycle shall carry and exhibit one lighted lamp commonly known as a driving
light and every other motor vehicle two such lighted driving lamps showing
white lights, or lights of a yellow or amber tint, visible at least 500 feet in
the direction toward which each motorcycle or motor vehicle is proceeding.
Parking lamps may be used in addition to but not in lieu of any such driving
lamps. Each motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer shall also exhibit at least
two lighted lamps which shall be mounted on the left rear and right rear of the
vehicle so as to throw a red light visible for at least 500 feet in the reverse
direction; except that, a motorcycle need be equipped with only one such lamp.
      (3)   Either a taillamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light a rear registration plate when
required and render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear.
Any taillamp or taillamps, together with any separate lamp or lamps for
illuminating a rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
   (B)   Stop and turn signal lights.
      (1)   Stop lights. Every vehicle operated in the village shall be
equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on the rear of the vehicle which shall
display a red light visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the
rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon application of the
service (foot) brake, and which may but need not be incorporated with other
rear lamps.
      (2)   Turn signal lights.
         (a)   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with an electric turn
signal device which shall indicate the intention of the driver to turn to the
right or to the left in the form of flashing lights located at and showing to
the front and rear of the vehicle on the side of the vehicle toward which the
turn is to be made. The lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and, when signaling, shall
emit a white or amber light or any shade of light between white and amber. The
lamps showing to the rear shall be mounted on the same level and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a red light.
         (b)   Every trailer and semi-trailer shall be equipped with an
electric turn signal device which indicates the intention of the driver in the
power unit to turn to the right or to the left in the form of flashing red
lights located at the rear of the vehicle on the side toward which the turn is
to be made and mounted on the same level and widely spaced laterally as
practicable.
         (c)   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with,
and required signal shall be given by, a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical
signal device when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post
to the left outside limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle
exceeds 24 inches, or when the distance from the center of the top of the
steering post to the rear limit of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet.
The latter measurement shall apply to any single vehicle, also to any
combination of vehicles.
         (d)   Turn signal lamps must be visible from a distance of not less
than 300 feet in normal sunlight.
   (C)   Emergency vehicles; public works vehicles. No oscillating, rotating or
flashing lights are permitted on any motor vehicle, except as follows:
      (1)   Red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights are permitted only on:
         (a)   Village law enforcement vehicles and police vehicles for the
State or Federal Government;
         (b)   Vehicles of the village’s Fire Department and firefighting
vehicles of the State or Federal Government; and
         (c)   Vehicles which are designed as ambulances and while responding
to an emergency call for the purpose of conveying sick or injured persons.
      (2)   Amber oscillating, rotating or flashing lights are permitted only
on:
         (a)   Second Division vehicles designed for towing or hoisting
disabled vehicles while actually being used for such purposes;
         (b)   Motor vehicles or equipment of the state, local authorities and
contractors while engaged in maintenance or construction operations within the
limits of construction projects;
         (c)   Vehicles or equipment used by engineering or survey crews while
actually engaged in work on a highway;
         (d)   Vehicles of public utilities while engaged in maintenance or
construction operations within the limits of construction projects;
         (e)   Oversized vehicle or load moving under permit issued by the
Department of Public Works and Buildings of the state;
         (f)   The front and rear of motorized equipment owned and operated by
the state or any political subdivision thereof, which is designed and used for
removal of snow and ice from highways; and
         (g)   Such other vehicles as may be authorized by local authorities.
      (3)   Blue oscillating, rotating or flashing lights are permitted only on
the front of any motor vehicle owned or fully operated by a volunteer
firefighter, paid firefighter or part-paid firefighter while responding to a
fire call.
   (D)   Vehicles owned by volunteer firefighter. Any motor vehicle owned or
usually operated by a volunteer firefighter may be equipped with not to exceed
two lamps which shall emit a blue light without glare. One such lamp may be
mounted on the rear of any such vehicle, which lights may be used only when
such firefighter is responding to a fire call.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a street unless such
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition
as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanics operating
the brakes of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.004 HORN.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient
audible signaling device in efficient working condition.
   (B)   Such signaling device shall be sounded when necessary to give timely
warning of the approach of a vehicle, but such horn or other signaling shall
not be sounded for any purpose other than as a warning of impending danger.
   (C)   No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped
with a siren or gong signaling device.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.005 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition. The use of a
cutout is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-5) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.006 TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street, any motor vehicle which is
not equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the state traffic
law.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-6) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.007 SEAT SAFETY BELTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any 1961 or later model
passenger automobile that is titled or licensed by the Secretary of State
unless the front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with two sets of seat
safety belts.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-7) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.008 SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD.
   (A)   Width, length and height; projecting loads.
      (1)   Width and heights.
         (a)   The maximum width and height of any vehicle and its load shall
not exceed the limits expressed in the state traffic law.
         (b)   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets with
a load extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle
nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders on the right
side thereof.
      (2)   Length.
         (a)   No vehicle, unladen or with load, shall exceed a length of 42
feet extreme overall dimensions.
         (b)   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of
more than two units, and no such combination of vehicles, unladen or with load,
shall exceed a total length of 50 feet; but such length limitations shall not
apply to vehicles operated in daytime when transporting pipes, poles, machinery
and other objects which cannot be readily dismembered, nor to such vehicles
operated at nighttime by a public utility when engaged in emergency repair
work, but such loads carried at night shall be clearly marked with sufficient
lights to show the full dimensions of the load.
         (c)   No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three
feet in front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
   (B)   Weight. It shall be unlawful to drive in any street any motor vehicle
with a weight, including load, in excess of that permitted by the state traffic
law for driving on improved highways, or with weight distributed in a manner
not conforming to such law; provided, however, that, the streets and highways
commencing at the westerly exit from Interstate 94 thence westerly on Sibley
Boulevard to Michigan City Road, thence northwesterly to 146th Street at which
point, and continuing in the same direction, said street is named Lincoln
Avenue, to Cottage Grove Avenue, thence northerly to 138th Street, thence
westerly to a point thereon constituting the entrance to the recycling and
distribution center located thereat, all within the village, shall be
constituted as designated highways within the meaning of the state traffic law
and shall thereupon be subject to the following weight loads:
 
Single Axle Tandem Axle Gross Weight
20,000 lbs. 34,000 lbs. 80,000 lbs.
 
   (C)   Trucks prohibited on certain streets. It shall be unlawful to drive
any truck, except for the purpose of making a delivery and then for one block
only, on any street so designated by ordinance and properly sign posted.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-8)
   (D)   Non-designated highways weight limitations.
      (1)   On non-designated highways, the gross weight of vehicles and
combination of vehicles including the weight of the vehicles or combination and
its maximum load shall be subject to the limitations set forth in 625 ILCS 5/
15-111(a) as now or hereafter amended, and further shall not exceed the gross
weights set forth in 625 ILCS 5/15-111(b) as now or hereafter amended,
dependent upon the number of axles and distance between extreme axels of the
vehicle or combination measured longitudinally to the nearest foot.
      (2)   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of this section, the
owner or driver of the vehicle shall be deemed guilty of a violation and either
the owner or driver of the vehicle may be prosecuted for the violation. Any
person, firm or corporation, found guilty of violating this section shall be
fined according to the following schedule:
Pounds Overweight Fine
Pounds Overweight                Fine
Up to and including 2,000 pounds $100
From 2,001 - 2,500 pounds        $270
From 2,501 - 3,000 pounds        $330
From 3,001 - 3,500 pounds        $520
From 3,501 - 4,000 pounds        $600
From 4,001 - 4,500 pounds        $850
From 4,501 - 5,000 pounds        $950
                                 The fine shall be computed by assessing $1,500
From 5,001 or more pounds        for the first 5,000 pounds overweight and $150
                                 for each additional increment of 500 pounds
                                 overweight or fraction thereof
 
      (3)   Pursuant to Illinois Supreme Court Rule 526(g), persons charged
with a violation of this section shall post cash bail in the amount of the
minimum fine fixed by ordinance, plus penalties and costs.
(Ord. 91-161, passed 7-9-1991; Ord. 08-436, passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 14-003,
passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.009 PROHIBITED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Unnecessary noise.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to operate or to permit the operation of a
vehicle which makes unusually loud or unnecessary noise which either annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety
with others within the village.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle or
for any person to emit or permit the emission of any noise, sound or music at
an excessive or disturbing level from a motor vehicle or from any device on or
in the motor vehicle. This section shall apply to any motor vehicle that is
moving, standing, or parked within the village. A noise, sound or music will be
considered to be “excessive or disturbing” if it can be heard from 75 or more
feet away.
         (b)   This section shall not apply to any authorized emergency
vehicles or the emission of any noise, sound or music to request assistance or
to warn of a hazardous situation.
   (B)   Gas and smoke. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits
dense smoke or such an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the
health of persons or as to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
   (C)   Spilling loads. No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its
load spills or drops on any street or alley in the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-9) (Ord. 09-472, passed 6-15-2009) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any of the provisions
of §
72.009 of this chapter and deemed guilty thereof and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 09-472, passed 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
73.001   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
73.002   Turning movements
   
73.003   Driver’s signals
   
73.004   Right-of-way
   
73.005   Driving on right side of roadway
   
73.006   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
73.007   One-way roadways
   
73.008   Passing vehicles
   
73.009   Overtaking vehicles
   
73.010   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
73.011   Restrictions on driving
   
73.012   Speed restrictions
   
73.013   Stop and yield intersections
   
73.014   Restricted access
   
73.015   Traffic not to be obstructed
   
73.016   Unattended vehicles
   
73.017   Traffic at railroad crossings
   
73.018   Funeral processions
   
73.019   School buses
   
73.020   Following too closely
   
73.021   Riding on outside of vehicles
   
73.022   Opening door into traffic lane
   
73.023   Transporting alcoholic liquor
   
73.024   Prohibited acts and conditions
§ 73.001 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Ambulances, operation of. No person shall operate an ambulance, which
shall include any motor vehicle primarily designed and used for conveyance of
sick or injured persons, in a manner not conforming to the provisions of the
motor vehicle laws and regulations of the state or provisions of this traffic
code as such provisions apply to motor vehicles in general, except in
compliance with the following conditions.
      (1)   The person operating the ambulance shall be either responding to a
bona fide emergency call or specifically directed by a licensed physician to
disregard traffic laws in operating the ambulance during and for the purpose of
the specific trip or journey that is involved.
      (2)   The ambulance shall be equipped with a siren producing an audible
signal of an intensity of 100 decibels at a distance of 50 feet from said
siren, and with a lamp emitting an oscillating, rotating or flashing red beam
directed in part toward the front of the vehicle and containing a power rating
of at least 100 amps, which siren and lamp shall be in full operation at all
times during such trip or journey.
      (3)   Whenever the ambulance is operated at a speed in excess of 40 mph,
the ambulance shall be operated in complete conformance with every other motor
vehicle law and regulation of the state and provisions of this traffic code
relating to the operation of motor vehicles as such provision applies to motor
vehicles in general, except laws and regulations pertaining to compliance with
official traffic- control devices or to vehicular operation upon the right half
of the roadway.
   (B)   Fire Department vehicles, fires.
      (1)   Operation of vehicles on approach of Fire Department vehicles. Upon
the approach of a Fire Department vehicle, drivers of vehicles shall comply
with the provisions of division (C) below relating to the approach of
authorized emergency vehicles.
      (2)   Following or parking closely. It shall be unlawful for the driver
of any vehicle, other than one on official business, to follow any fire
apparatus in response to a fire alarm closer than one block or to park any
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped to answer a fire
alarm.
      (3)   Driving over fire hose. It shall be further unlawful for the driver
of any vehicle to drive over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
without the consent of the Fire Chief or the assistant in command.
   (C)   Operation of vehicle on approach of authorized emergency vehicle.
      (1)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals or a police vehicle properly and
lawfully making use of audible and visual signals the driver of every other
vehicle on the same roadway shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately
drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to the right-hand
edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and shall stop if
possible and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
      (2)   This division (C) shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.002 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Required position and method of turning at intersections. The driver
of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as follows:
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway;
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the
roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection;
and
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a private road
or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said
highway.
   (B)   Vehicle turning left. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the
left within an intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having
so yielded and having given a signal when and as required, may proceed at such
time as a safe interval occurs.
   (C)   Limitations on turning around.
      (1)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction unless such
movement can be made in safety and without backing into traffic or otherwise
interfering with traffic.
      (2)   “U” turns. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
make a “U” turn at any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance.
      (3)   Turning on crest of hill. No vehicle shall be turned so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or
near the crest of a grade, where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of
any other vehicle approaching from either direction within 500 feet.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.003 DRIVER’S SIGNALS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop or attempt to
turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to apprise
others who might be affected by this action.
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the roadway as required herein, or turn a vehicle to
enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct
course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such movement can
be made with reasonable safety, and no person may so turn any vehicle without
giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required must be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning within a business or residence district, and such signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal, in the manner provided in this section to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give such a signal.
   (D)   The signal herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by electric turn signal device, but when a vehicle is constructed or
loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the front and
rear of such vehicle, then said signals must be given by such electric turn
signal device.
      (1)   The electric turn signal device required in this division (D) must
be used to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes or start from a parallel
parked position, but must not be flashed on one side only on a parked or
disabled vehicle or flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal to operators of
other vehicles approaching from the rear.
      (2)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given
from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals
shall indicate as follows:
         (a)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
         (b)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
         (c)   Stop or decrease of speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.004 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Excepting as otherwise herein provided, the driver of a vehicle approaching
an intersection must yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection from a different highway; and when two vehicles enter an
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver
of the vehicle on the left must yield to the right-of-way to the vehicle on the
right.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.005 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   For specific turn signal regulations, see §
72.002 of this code of ordinances. When overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair; provided, that any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and sign posted for one-way traffic.
Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the public highway
and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the wider shoulder
shall give the right-of-way on such pavement to the other vehicle.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the condition then existing,
shall be driving in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.006 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rule, in addition to all others consistent herewith,
shall apply: a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.007 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle must be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to use
another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across or within any such dividing space, barrier
or section, except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing
section, or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by the
corporate authorities.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.008 PASSING VEHICLES.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.009 OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Generally. The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing
of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations,
exceptions and special rules hereinafter stated.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the
left of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction, unless there is an
unobstructed lane of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safely.
   (B)   Overtaking vehicles on the right.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         (a)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn;
         (b)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles
in each direction; and
         (c)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
      (2)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed
pavement to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less
than eight feet.
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway.
   (C)   Limitations on overtaking on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions hereof and unless such left side
is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance
ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made without
interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every event the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for
vehicles approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
      (2)   No vehicle may, in overtaking and passing another vehicle, be
driven to the left side of the roadway under the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction; and/or
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing, bridge or viaduct.
      (3)   The limitations in divisions (C)(2)(a) and (C)(2)(b) above do not
apply upon a one-way roadway or upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction when
such movement can be made with safety.
   (D)   No passing zones.
      (1)   Where the corporate authorities have determined those portions of
any highway where overtaking and passing or driving to the left of the roadway
would be especially hazardous and by appropriate signs or markings on the
roadway indicate the beginning and end of such zones, and when the signs or
markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant person,
every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
      (2)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone as
set forth in division (D)(1) above, no driver may at any time drive on the left
side of the roadway within the no passing zone or on the left side of any
pavement striping designed to mark such no passing zone throughout its length.
      (3)   The pavement striping designed to mark the no passing zone may be
crossed:
         (a)   From the left-hand lane for the purpose of completing a pass
that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the driver’s direction of
travel; or
         (b)   From the right-hand lane when making a left turn into a driveway
or entrance.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-9) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.010 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-10) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.011 RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING.
   (A)   Driving from alleys, driveways or garages. The driver of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, driveway or garage shall stop such vehicle immediately
prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or across a sidewalk line projected across
such alley, and shall exercise extreme care in driving upon said sidewalk or
across such line.
   (B)   Driving on sidewalks or in safety zones. No driver of a vehicle shall
drive within any sidewalk area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway,
nor at any time into or upon any portion of a roadway marked as a safety zone.
   (C)   Starting parked vehicle. No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety.
   (D)   Backing. The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interference with other
traffic.
   (E)   Merging traffic. At an intersection where traffic lanes are provided
for merging traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging in roadways
is required to adjust his or her vehicular speed and lateral position so as to
avoid a collision with another vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-11) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.012 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street
not under the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works and Buildings, the
state or the county, within the village at a speed in excess of 20 mph, or an
alley at a speed in excess of 15 mph; provided further, the speed of all
vehicles of the Second Division, as defined by statute, having two or more
solid tires, shall not exceed ten mph.
      (2)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on any street or highway
within the village under the jurisdiction of the state’s Department of Public
Works and Buildings or of the county, at a speed exceeding that lawfully set
for such street.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-12) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.013 STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop and after having stopped shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway or which is
approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching
on another highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-13) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.014 RESTRICTED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled or limited
controlled access roadway except at such entrances and exits as are established
by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-14) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.015 TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-15) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.016 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is
running; and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline
unless the vehicle is secured against moving.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such
officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the
nearest garage or other place of safety.
   (C)   The cost of such towing shall be borne by the owner of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-16) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.017 TRAFFIC AT RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when a
signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train, shall stop
within 50 feet, but not less than ten feet, from the nearest track of such
railroad and shall not proceed until he or she can do so safely.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at and not traverse such grade
crossing when a gate is lowered or when a flagger or automatic signal warns of
the approach of a train.
   (C)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or any
school bus carrying any school children, or any vehicle carrying explosives or
flammable liquid as cargo shall stop such vehicle within 50 feet, but not less
than ten feet, from the nearest rail of the tracks and shall listen and look in
both directions along such track from which a train might come before
proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing; provided that, no such stop
need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or a traffic-control
signal directs traffic to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-17) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.018 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising such procession have their headlights lighted, subject to
the following conditions and exceptions:
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal;
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer; and
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic-control signals, but when the leading
vehicle has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with such signal or
after stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in such procession
may proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his or her vehicle in the funeral procession, except when authorized to
do so by a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency
vehicle giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose of
securing the right-of-way granted by this section to funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   (E)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when such vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may
utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers to identify the
individual vehicles in such a procession.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-18) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.019 SCHOOL BUSES.
   The driver of a vehicle on a street or highway, upon meeting or overtaking
from either direction any school bus, which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children, shall stop the vehicle
before reaching such school bus when there is in operation on the bus a visual
signal as required by the statute for operation while the bus is transporting
pupils, and the driver shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or
the driver of the vehicle is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or
the visual signal is no longer actuated; provided, however, that, the driver of
a vehicle upon a street or highway of which the roadway for traffic moving in
opposite directions are separated by a strip of ground which is not surfaced or
suitable for vehicle traffic need not stop his or her vehicle upon meeting or
passing a school bus which is on the opposite roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-19) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.020 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of any motor vehicle of the Second Division or motor
vehicle drawing another vehicle, when traveling upon a street outside of a
business or residence district, shall not follow within 300 feet of another
motor vehicle of the Second Division or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prevent
overtaking and passing, nor shall the same apply upon any lane specifically
designated for use by motor vehicles of the Second Division.
   (C)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any street outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade, whether or not towing other
vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to funeral
processions.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-20) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.021 RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on the outside of any vehicle
except upon a platform or step designed for this purpose; and, provided further
that, special brackets, bars or hand grips are mounted on said vehicle to hold
to while riding on the platform or step.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-21) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.022 OPENING DOOR INTO TRAFFIC LANE.
   It shall be unlawful to open any door of a motor vehicle on the side
available to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so and
can be done without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall
any person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-22) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.023 TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, possess or have any
alcoholic liquor in, upon or about any motor vehicle, except in the original
package and with the seal unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-23) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.024 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Clinging to vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person on any
street riding a bicycle, motorcycle or any toy vehicle to cling to or to attach
himself or herself or his or her vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon.
   (B)   Toy vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a
coaster, sled or other toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a
crosswalk.
   (C)   Reckless or careless driving. It shall be unlawful to operate any
vehicle in the village in a reckless or wanton manner, or carelessly so as to
endanger life or property.
   (D)   Drag racing. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor
vehicle to be a participant in drag racing.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-24) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 74: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
74.001   No parking places
   
74.002   General parking restrictions
   
74.003   Loading zones
   
74.004   Handicapped parking spaces
   
74.005   Posting signs
   
74.006   Administrative adjudication
Parking Meters
   
74.020   Definitions
   
74.021   Parking meter zone rules
   
74.022   Placement of meters; marking spaces
   
74.023   Placing coins in meters
   
74.024   Tampering with meters
Residential Parking Permit Areas
   
74.035   Intent and purpose
   
74.036   Definitions
   
74.037   Determination of residential parking permit area
   
74.038   Posting signs
   
74.039   Notice and permit application to residents
   
74.040   Residential parking permits
   
74.041   Permits for visitors and guests
   
74.042   Limitations on authority of permits
   
74.043   Validity of permits
   
74.044   Surrender of permits
   
74.045   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
74.046   Exemptions from provisions
   
74.047   Withdrawal of designation of residential parking permit area
   
74.048   Regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74.001 NO PARKING PLACES.
   At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control device:
   (A)   On any sidewalk or parkway;
   (B)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (C)   In any intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   In a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of crosswalk at an intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to a traffic-control signal, beacon
or stop sign located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department
station, and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such
station, within 75 feet of such entrance when properly sign posted;
   (K)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
parking would obstruct traffic;
   (L)   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto;
   (M)   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or curb of a
street; and
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.002 GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Parking at curb. No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such
vehicle next to the curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful
to stand or park any vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and
with the two right wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly
established curb line; except that, upon those streets that have been marked
for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated
by such marks.
   (B)   All night parking.
      (1)   No person shall park any vehicle on any posted street for a period
of time longer than 30 minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. of
any day, except physicians on emergency calls.
      (2)   No person shall park any vehicle on any street designated as a
primary street between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. during snow
removal.
   (C)   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   (D)   Vehicles for sale; peddling merchandise from. It shall be unlawful to
park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or
to park any vehicle upon any business street from which vehicle merchandise is
peddled.
   (E)   Cab stands; bus stands. No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall
be parked in any area designated by ordinance as a cab stand; and no vehicle
other than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading
zone.
   (F)   Street cleaning. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any
public street or portion thereof in the village at any time when such street is
being cleaned. Signs indicating that a street or portion thereof is being
cleaned shall be posted 24 hours before the cleaning of the street, and shall
be removed after the cleaning of the street has been completed.
   (G)   Restriction on trucks. It shall be unlawful to stand or park any
truck, tractor, semi-trailer, trailer, commercial truck, delivery truck, tow
truck, recreational vehicle or self-contained motor home more than 22 feet in
length, or bus, on any business or residential street for a longer period than
is necessary for the reasonably expeditious loading or unloading of such
vehicle; except that, a driver of a bus may park such bus in a designated bus
stand as provided otherwise. Any vehicle parked in violation of this division
(G) is hereby declared to be a nuisance whey may be abated by any police
officer by removing such vehicle to an authorized garage in addition to any
other penalty lawfully imposed.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2)
   (H)   Restriction on overnight truck parking. It shall be unlawful to stand
or park any truck, tractor, semi-trailer, trailer, recreational vehicle or
self-contained motor home in or on any parking lot of a commercial or
industrial facility where such prohibition is clearly and publicly posted in
conspicuous places and where the commercial or industrial facility has
requested the enforcement of such prohibition by the village and invited the
village upon said premises for the purposes of accomplishing such enforcement.
Any vehicle parked in violation of this division (H) is hereby declared to be a
nuisance which may be abated by any police officer by removing such vehicle to
an authorized garage in addition to any other penalty lawfully imposed.
(Ord. 86-142, passed 11-18-1986; Ord. 96-304, passed 6-18-1996; Ord. 10-502,
passed 6-21-2010) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.003 LOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand for a period of
time longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers, not
to exceed three minutes, and for the driver to stand any freight-carrying
vehicles for a period of time longer than is necessary to load, unload and
deliver materials, not to exceed 30 minutes, in any place designated by the
Village Board as a loading zone and marked as such, or in any of the following
designated places:
   (A)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the entrance
to any hospital or hotel at any time;
   (B)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the entrance
to a public building between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except on Sunday;
   (C)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the
theater is open for business; or
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3)
   (D)   Any area designated as a school bus loading and unloading zone.
(Ord. 92-176, passed 4-28-1992) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.004 HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Privileged parking. A motor vehicle bearing registration plates issued
to a physically handicapped person pursuant to § 3-616 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, effective 7-1-1970, being 625 ILCS 5/3-616 as now or hereafter amended,
or to a disabled veteran pursuant to § 3-609 of the Illinois Vehicle Code,
being 625 ILCS 5/3-609 as now or hereafter amended, may park, in addition to
any other lawful place, in any parking place specifically reserved, by posting
of an official sign, for such vehicles. Parking privileges granted by this
section are strictly limited to the person to whom the special registration
plates were issued and to qualified operators acting under his or her express
direction while the disabled person is present. In the event a special
handicapped parking place is established in front of the residence of a
disabled individual, only that individual or members of that individual’s
immediate family may park in the designated space. A special exclusive numbered
permit will be issued to such disabled person, and it shall be unlawful, for
any other vehicle, including a vehicle with a handicapped permit, to park in
such exclusive parking space.
   (B)   Unauthorized use of parking places for the handicapped. It shall be a
prohibition to park any motor vehicle which is not bearing registration plates
issued to a physically handicapped person or to a disabled veteran pursuant to
division (A) above, in any parking place specifically reserved, by the posting
of an official sign, for motor vehicles bearing such registration plates.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4) (Ord. passed 12-22-1981; Ord. 17-035, passed 10-2-2017)
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.005 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Department of Streets, or any person authorized by the President and
Board of Trustees, shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is
limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5)
§ 74.006 ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION.
   (A)   Operation of an administrative adjudication system.
      (1)   These provisions shall provide a system of administrative
adjudication as required by § 11-208.3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625
ILCS 5/11-208.3 as now or hereafter amended, to cause the suspension of a
registered vehicle owner’s or lessee’s drivers license upon their failure to
pay fines or penalties due and owing as a result of ten or more village
standing or perking violations.
      (2)   These provisions shall not preclude the village from adopting
procedures pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5 as now or hereafter amended,
providing for the authority to file a certified report to the state’s Secretary
of State upon a person’s failure to satisfy any fine or penalty imposed by a
final judgment from a court of law or the village adjudication system for ten
or more unpaid standing and/or parking violations.
      (3)   In addition, notwithstanding any provision of this section, the
village will process hang-on violation notices through the administrative
adjudication system of the village for any person receiving standing and/or
parking violations as specified herein.
      (4)   The Mayor shall appoint an individual or entity to serve as Parking
Administrator. This person or entity shall be authorized to:
         (a)   Adopt, distribute and process parking or standing violation
notices and other notices as required;
         (b)   Collect money paid as fines and penalties for violation of
parking or standing ordinances;
         (c)   Operate the administrative adjudication system;
         (d)   Make certified reports to the Secretary of State pursuant to
Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 95-1/2, para. 6-306-5; and
         (e)   Conduct hearings when the appointed hearing officer cannot
perform said assigned duties.
      (5)   Compensation, if any, to the Parking Administrator shall be
determined by the Mayor with the approval of the Board of Trustees of the
village.
      (6)   The Mayor shall appoint two individuals to act as the Hearing
Officers who shall be responsible for and/or empowered to:
         (a)   Preside over administrative hearings on behalf of the Parking
Administrator during which the formal or technical rules of evidence shall not
apply;
         (b)   Assure the accurate recording of the hearing proceedings;
         (c)   Allow for the representation of counsel at the hearings at
expense of the individual;
         (d)   Make final determination of parking or standing liability for
cited violations;
         (e)   Assess fines and penalties in accordance with provisions
established herein;
         (f)   Administer oaths; and
         (g)   Secure by subpoena both the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of relevant books and papers.
      (7)   Compensation, if any, to the Hearing Officers shall be determined
by the Mayor with the approval of the Board of Trustees of the village.
   (B)   Issuance of hang-on parking or standing violation notice.
      (1)   Any employee of the village authorized to issue vehicular parking
or standing citations and who detects a violation of any section of an
ordinance restricting or prohibiting parking or standing of motor vehicles,
including failure to purchase and display the municipal vehicle license
sticker, shall issue a hang-on parking or standing violation notice by either
affixing it to the offending vehicle or handing it to the operator of such
vehicle, if said operator is present.
      (2)   All full-time, part-time and auxiliary police officers, or other
civilians specifically named shall be authorized to issue hang-on parking or
standing violation notices in accordance with the provisions set forth herein.
      (3)   The printed notice shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The date, time and place of the violation;
         (b)   The particular standing or parking regulation violated;
         (c)   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payment;
         (d)   Vehicle make and state registration number; and
         (e)   The signature and identification number of the person issuing
the violation notice.
      (4)   The violation notice shall provide:
         (a)   The payment of the indicated fine and of any applicable penalty
for the late payment, shall operate as a final disposition of the violation;
and
         (b)   Notice of the availability of a hearing, during which the
violation may be contested upon its merits and the time and manner in which
such a hearing may be had.
      (5)   Notices issued by authorized persons shall:
         (a)   Certify to the correctness of the facts entered on the parking
or standing violation notice by signing, by the authorized person’s name to the
notice at the time of service; and
         (b)   As to the notice or copy thereof, be admissible in any
subsequent administrative or legal proceedings.
   (C)   Action by recipient of citation. Persons receiving a citation for
parking or standing violation may challenge the violation by making an
appearance in one of the following manners;
      (1)   Payment of the fine indicated on the citation. Such payment shall
be made and received on or before the deadline stated on the citation and shall
serve as the final disposition of the violations; or
      (2)   Requesting a hearing on the merits of the parking or standing
violation in the time and manner specified on the hang-on notice and attendance
at the hearing at the time, date and place specified by the Parking
Administrator. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures
set forth herein.
   (D)   Failure to appear; service of additional notice.
      (1)   Failure to make an appearance shall result in additional notices of
violation as indicated in this section being sent by first class mail to the
registered owner of the cited vehicle at their address as recorded with the
Secretary of State or to the lessee of the cited vehicle at the last address
known to the lessor of said vehicle at the time of lease. Service of additional
notices shall be completed as of the date of deposit in the U.S. mail.
      (2)   A second notice of violation shall be sent to the responsible
party, as defined in division (D)(1) above, upon the failure of the recipient
of a hang-on violation notice to make an appearance as prescribed in division
(C) above. The recipient may appear by either paying the indicated fine and
assessed penalty for late charges or by requesting a hearing on the merits of
the citation in the time and manner specified on the second notice and
attending such hearing at the time, date and place specified by the Parking
Administrator. Failure to appear in the manner herein prescribed shall result
in a final determination of parking or standing violation liability for the
cited violation.
      (3)   A notice of final determination of parking or standing violation
liability shall be sent to the responsible party, as defined in division (D)(1)
above, upon failure to appear pursuant to the second notice of violation and
after a final determination of parking or standing violation, liability has
been rendered in accordance with division (E) below. The recipient may appear
by paying the fine and penalty within the time specified on the notice and
shall be advised that failure to do so may result in:
         (a)   The village filing of a petition in the Circuit Court to penalty
rendered a judgment as provided by § 11-208.3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code,
being 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3 as now or hereafter amended; or
         (b)   Proceedings to suspend the recipient’s driver’s license will be
initiated pursuant to Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 95-1/2, para. 6-306-5, for failure to
pay fines or penalties for ten or more parking or standing tickets.
      (4)   A notice of impending driver’s license suspension shall be sent to
the person for whom a final determination of liability was rendered in
accordance with this section on each of ten or more unpaid parking or standing
violations Failure to pay the fines and/or penalties owing within 45 days of
the notice’s date shall result in notification to the Secretary of State of
said person’s eligibility for initiation of driver’s license suspension
proceedings.
   (E)   Final determination of parking or standing liability.
      (1)   A final determination of parking ticket violation liability shall
occur following failure to pay the fine or penalty after a Hearing Officer’s
determination of parking or standing violation liability and the Parking
Administrator’s denial of a petition to set aside the determination of the
expiration of the period for filing such petition without filing having been
made.
      (2)   A determination of parking ticket violation liability may be set
aside by filing a petition with the Parking Administrator within ten working
days after the Hearing Officer’s determination. Petitions shall be available at
the office of the Parking Administrator and shall specify the grounds on which
a challenge may be based, including the following:
         (a)   The person owing the unpaid fine and/or penalty was neither the
owner nor lessee of the cited vehicle(s) on the date or dates the parking or
standing violation notice was issued;
         (b)   The fine and/or penalty for the parking or standing violation in
question was paid; and
         (c)   There was excusable failure to request a hearing or to appear at
the hearing or to request a new date for hearing.
      (3)   The Parking Administrator shall render a decision within 14 days of
receipt:
         (a)   The petition and shall immediately notify the Hearing Officer
and petitioner of such decision; and
         (b)   The persons have paid the fine and penalty for the ten or more
violations indicated on the certified report.
      (4)   The Parking Administrator shall render a determination within ten
business days of receipt of the objection form and shall notify the objector
thereof.
   (F)   Procedure for non-residents.
      (1)   Persons who are not residents of the village may contest the merits
of the alleged violation without attending a hearing as provided herein by
submitting a waiver of hearing and notarized “statement of facts” specifying
ground for challenging the citation. Such documentation must be received by the
Parking Administrator with the time for requesting a hearing.
      (2)   The Hearing Officer shall issue to the Parking Administrator a
finding based on the statement of facts.
      (3)   The Parking Administrator shall notify the non-resident of the
Hearing Officer’s determination by first class mail through the U.S. Postal
Service.
      (4)   In all other respects, the procedures set forth in this section
shall apply to non-residents.
   (G)   Schedule of fines, penalties and costs.
      (1)   The registered owner, lessee, operator or responsible party charged
with a violation of any ordinance prohibiting, restricting or regulating the
parking or standing of motor vehicles in the village shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $25, nor more than $250, for each offense. This
fine shall be uniform and shall be applied for a violation of any ordinance in
effect presently or made effective in the future prohibiting, restricting or
regulating the parking or standing of motor vehicles in places other than those
places restricted for handicapped parking only.
      (2)   The registered owner, lessee, operator or responsible party charged
with a violation of any ordinance prohibiting, restricting or regulating the
parking or standing of unpermitted motor vehicles in parking spaces, in
regulated parking lots or on village streets specifically designated as places
restricted for handicapped parking only, in the village shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $100, nor more than $250, for each offense.
This fine shall be uniform and shell be applied for a violation of any
ordinance in effect presently or made effective h the future prohibiting,
restricting or regulating the parking or standing.
(Ord. 92-186, passed 8-18-1992; Ord. 92-193, passed 10-13-1992)
PARKING METERS
§ 74.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING METER. A mechanical device located upon a public street or sidewalk
in a place designated by the President and Board of Trustees as a parking meter
zone hereafter defined, which device shall record a certain number of minutes
by the use of a clock mechanism determining the period of time for which
parking privileges may be extended to the person depositing a coin therein.
   PARKING METER ZONE. An area designated by the President and Board of
Trustees where a vehicle may be temporarily parked and allowed to remain for
the period of time indicated on the meter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-1)
§ 74.021 PARKING METER ZONE RULES.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle or to permit a vehicle to remain
parked in any parking meter zone for a period longer than designated on such
meter, between the hours designated thereon, except on Sundays and holidays; or
to park a vehicle in any zone without paying the fee hereinafter designated; or
to permit a vehicle to remain parked longer in any such zone than for the
period for which the fee was paid, except on Sunday and holidays.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-2) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.022 PLACEMENT OF METERS; MARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Parking meters shall be installed in the established parking meter
zones and shall be placed upon the curb immediately adjacent to the individual
parking place. Each parking meter shall be placed or set in such a manner as to
show or display by a signal whether or not the parking space adjacent to such
meter is legally in use.
   (B)   The Department of Streets shall have markings painted or placed upon
the curbs of streets adjacent to each parking meter for the purpose of
designating the parking space and the angle of which vehicles are parked to the
curb. Each vehicle parking within any parking meter zone shall park within the
line or markings so established. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle
across any such line or marking or to park said vehicle in such position that
the same shall not be entirely within the area designated by such lines or
markings.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-3) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.023 PLACING COINS IN METERS.
   Any person desiring to park any vehicle within such parking meter space
shall deposit the proper coins for the time desired as indicated on such
parking meter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-4)
§ 74.024 TAMPERING WITH METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the President and
Board of Trustees to deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break,
destroy or impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the
provisions of this subchapter, and it shall be unlawful to deposit any slug,
device or metallic or other substitute for a coin in any parking meter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-5) Penalty, see §
70.999
RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT AREAS
§ 74.035 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The Village President and Board of Trustees find and declare that the
provisions of this subchapter are enacted for the following reasons:
   (A)   To reduce hazardous traffic conditions resulting from the use of
streets within residential districts for vehicles parked by persons not
residing within the residential districts;
   (B)   To protect these residential districts from polluted air, excessive
noise and refuse caused by the entry of such vehicles;
   (C)   To protect the residents of these residential districts from
unreasonable burdens in gaining access to their residences;
   (D)   To preserve the character of these districts as residential districts;
   (E)   To promote efficiency in the maintenance of streets in these
residential districts in a clean and safe condition;
   (F)   To preserve the value of the property in these residential districts;
   (G)   To promote traffic safety and the safety of children and other
pedestrians in these residential districts;
   (H)   To forestall dangers arising from the blocking of fire lanes, hydrants
and other facilities required by emergency vehicles, both in reaching victims
and in transporting them to hospitals;
   (I)   To facilitate the movement of traffic in the event of accidents and
other disasters; and
   (J)   To promote the peace, comfort, convenience and welfare of all
inhabitants of the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-1)
§ 74.036 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURBSIDE PARKING SPACE. Twenty linear feet of curb, exclusive of those
portions of the curb where parking, apart from the provisions of this
subchapter, is not presently permitted.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. A contiguous or nearly contiguous area containing
public highways or parts thereof primarily abutted by residential property or
residential and nonbusiness property (such as schools, parks and churches).
   RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT AREA. A residential district where curbside
parking on public highways is prohibited between 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the
following day, every day of the week, unless the vehicle properly displays a
parking permit authorized by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-2)
§ 74.037 DETERMINATION OF RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT AREA.
   (A)   Public hearing.
      (1)   In order for the Village President and Board of Trustees to
determine whether a residential district, or portion thereof, shall be
designated, or shall continue to be designated, as a residential parking area,
the Village President and Board of Trustees, or their designee, shall conduct,
upon their initiative or upon a petition signed by a majority of the residents
in the district or portion thereof, a public hearing prior to such designation
and prior to the withdrawal of such designation.
      (2)   Such public hearing shall be held only after due notice has been
published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the village, not less
than 15 days, nor more than 30 days, before said hearing.
      (3)   The notice shall clearly state the purpose, time and location of
the public hearing, the exact location and boundaries of the proposed or
existing residential parking permit area.
      (4)   During such public hearing, any interested person shall be entitled
to appear, to be heard and to submit a written statement for the record.
      (5)   A record of all oral and written statements by all interested
persons shall be maintained by the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Survey conducted. To enable the Village President and Board of
Trustees to determine whether a residential district, or portion thereof, shall
be designated or shall continue to be designated as a residential parking
permit area, the Police Chief of the village, or his or her designee, shall
conduct, between 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, a block-by-block
survey of the proposed or existing residential parking permit area. No
residential district, or portion thereof, shall be designated as a residential
parking permit area unless the survey of it reveals the following:
      (1)   The total number of curbside parking spaces occupied by vehicles
equals or exceeds 75% of the number of curbside parking spaces on the public
highways of the proposed or existing residential parking permit area; and
      (2)   The total number of curbside parking spaces occupied by vehicles
whose operators do not reside within the proposed or existing residential
parking permit area equals or exceeds 25% of the total number of curbside
parking spaces occupied by vehicles.
   (C)   Recommendation by village officials. Within 30 days following the
close of the public hearing, the Village President and Board of Trustees, or
their designee, shall recommend by written report, based on the record of the
public hearing and the results of the survey, whether to designate the
residential district, or portion thereof under consideration, as a residential
parking permit area or whether to withdraw the designation of an existing
residential parking permit area. The report shall also demonstrate that the
recommendation has taken into account the following:
      (1)   The effect on the safety of the residents of the proposed or
existing residential parking permit area from intensive vehicle parking by non-
residents;
      (2)   The difficulty or inability of residents of the proposed or
existing residential parking permit area to obtain adequate curbside parking
adjacent to or near their residences because of widespread use of available
curbside parking spaces by non-resident motorists;
      (3)   The likelihood of alleviating, by use of the residential parking
permit system established by this subchapter, any problem of non-availability
of residential parking spaces; and
      (4)   The desire of the residents in the proposed or existing residential
parking permit area for the institution of a residential parking permit system.
   (D)   Village Board decision. Within 21 days following the receipt of the
report, the Village President and Board of Trustees shall vote, as applicable:
      (1)   Whether to designate the residential district or portion thereof
under consideration as a residential parking permit area; or
      (2)   Whether to withdraw the designation of an existing residential
parking permit area.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-3)
§ 74.038 POSTING SIGNS.
   Following the President’s and Board of Trustees’ affirmative vote to
designate a residential parking permit area, parking signs shall be erected in
the designated area. The signs shall be of such character as to inform readily
an ordinarily observant person that curbside parking on public highways in the
designated area is prohibited unless the vehicle properly displays a parking
permit authorized by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-4)
§ 74.039 NOTICE AND PERMIT APPLICATION TO RESIDENTS.
   Following the President’s and Board of Trustees’ affirmative vote to
designate a residential parking permit area, the Village Clerk shall mail to
every residence within the designated residential parking permit area, the
following documents:
   (A)   A notice of designation which shall inform the residents in the
designated area of:
      (1)   The existence, exact location and numerical designation of the
residential parking permit area;
      (2)   The parking restrictions applicable to all vehicles in curbside
parking spaces along public highways in the designated area which do not
properly display a parking permit authorized by this subchapter; and
      (3)   The procedures to obtain a residential, visitor, business or guest
parking permit.
   (B)   An application for residential parking permit on which the applicant
is to provide the following information for each vehicle to receive a
residential parking permit:
      (1)   The name and residential address of the owner of the vehicle;
      (2)   The name, residential address and driver’s license number of the
principal operator of the vehicle;
      (3)   The make, model, license plate number and registration number of
the vehicle; and
      (4)   The signature of the applicant for the residential parking permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-5)
§ 74.040 RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMITS.
   (A)   Issuance of permits. Upon the applicant’s submission of a completed
and validated residential parking permit application and his or her fulfillment
of all applicable provisions of this subchapter controlling issuance, renewal
or transfer of residential parking permits, the applicant shall receive one
residential parking permit for the vehicle described in the application. Such
residential parking permit shall be securely affixed to the inside bottom left
corner of the front windshield of the vehicle.
   (B)   Restrictions on issuance of permit.
      (1)   No residential parking permit shall be issued to a vehicle whose
owner and principal operator do not reside within the designated residential
parking permit area.
      (2)   The applicant for, and holder of, the residential parking permit
shall be the owner or principal operator of the vehicle receiving the parking
permit.
      (3)   A vehicle shall be issued a residential parking permit only if it
displays valid state license plates, unless the vehicle is not required to have
them.
   (C)   Expiration of permit. The expiration date of the residential parking
permit shall be one year following the date, or the most recent anniversary of
the date, whichever is later, of the designation of the residential parking
permit area.
   (D)   Renewal of permits. Upon the holder’s submission of a completed and
validated residential parking permit application, his or her fulfillment of all
applicable provisions of this subchapter controlling issuance, renewal or
transfer of residential parking permits, on or before the expiration date of
the existing residential parking permit, the holder shall receive a new
residential parking permit. The expiration date to be displayed on the new
residential parking permit shall be one year following the expiration date of
the existing residential parking permit.
   (E)   Transfer of permits. Upon the holder’s submission of a completed and
validated residential parking permit application, his or her fulfillment of all
applicable provisions of this subchapter controlling issuance, renewal or
transfer of residential parking permits, and his or her surrender of his or her
existing residential parking permit, the holder shall receive a new residential
parking permit to be transferred to another qualifying vehicle. The transfer of
the residential parking permit to another qualifying vehicle shall not affect
its expiration date.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-6-1)
§ 74.041 PERMITS FOR VISITORS AND GUESTS.
   (A)   Visitor parking permit. Upon application of any resident of a
residential parking permit area, the Village Clerk shall issue a visitor
parking permit to the resident for the visitor’s vehicle to be limited to that
particular parking permit area and for a period not exceeding 30 days. No more
than two visitor parking permits shall be issued to any one residence at any
one time. For the purposes of this subchapter, the resident shall be the holder
of and responsible for the use and misuse of the visitor parking permits issued
to him or her.
   (B)   Guest parking permit. Upon application of any resident of a
residential parking permit area, the Village Clerk shall issue a guest parking
permit to the resident for the guest’s vehicle to be valid for only one day, if
the issuance of the permit will not unduly impair traffic safety during the
time of the permit’s validity. Use of guest parking permits may be restricted
to designated streets or portions of streets within the residential parking
permit area. The number of such permits outstanding shall not exceed at any
time 50% of the number of curbside parking spaces in which they are valid. For
purposes of this subchapter, the resident shall be the holder of and
responsible for the use and misuse of the guest parking permits issued to him
or her.
   (C)   Permits to be posted; contents. All visitor and guest parking permits
shall be displayed on or about the front windshield of the vehicle so as to be
easily visible from outside the vehicle. Such parking permits shall contain the
expiration date of the parking permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-6-2)
§ 74.042 LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORITY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   A parking permit shall not guarantee or reserve a parking space within
a designated residential parking permit area.
   (B)   A parking permit shall not authorize the standing or parking of any
vehicle in such places and during such times as the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles is prohibited, and shall not excuse the observance of any
traffic regulation other than the parking limit enforced in the residential
parking permit area.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-6-3)
§ 74.043 VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   Until its expiration, surrender or revocation, a parking permit shall remain
valid for such time as the holder continues to reside within the designated
residential parking permit area and said permit shall be valid only in the
residential parking permit area for which it is issued.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-6-4)
§ 74.044 SURRENDER OF PERMITS.
   Whenever the holder of a residential, visitor or guest parking permit, or
the vehicle for which the parking permit was issued, no longer fulfills one or
more of the applicable provisions of this subchapter controlling issuance,
renewal or transfer of parking permits, the holder shall so notify the Village
Clerk who may then direct the holder to surrender the parking permit. It shall
be a violation of this subchapter for the holder of a parking permit to fail to
surrender it when directed to do so.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-6-5)
§ 74.045 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful use of permit. It shall be a violation of this subchapter for
any person to represent in any fashion that a vehicle is entitled to a parking
permit authorized by this subchapter when it is not so entitled. The display of
a parking permit on a vehicle not entitled to such a parking permit shall
constitute such a representation.
   (B)   Counterfeit permits. It shall be a violation of this subchapter for
any person to duplicate, or attempt to duplicate, by any means, a parking
permit authorized by this subchapter. It shall also be a violation of this
subchapter for any person to display on any vehicle such a duplicate parking
permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-7) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.046 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The parking restrictions imposed by this subchapter shall not apply to any
service or delivery vehicle when used to provide services or to make deliveries
to residences within a residential parking permit area; provided that, the
parking of the service or delivery vehicle within the parking permit area does
not exceed one hour in duration on any given day.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-8)
§ 74.047 WITHDRAWAL OF DESIGNATION OF RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT AREA.
   Following the President and Board of Trustees’ affirmative vote to withdraw
the designation of an existing residential parking permit area, the Village
Clerk shall mail to every residence within the existing residential parking
permit area, a notice of the President and Board of Trustees’ withdrawal of the
designation. Said notice shall specify the effective date of the withdrawal of
the designation which shall be 30 days following the date of the President and
Board of Trustees’ affirmative vote to withdraw the designation.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-9)
§ 74.048 REGULATIONS.
   The Village President or his or her designee is authorized to establish,
after due notice and opportunity for interested parties to be heard, all
written regulations necessary to implement and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-10) (Ord. passed 11-6-1979)
CHAPTER 75: ABANDONED, HAZARDOUS AND UNLAWFUL VEHICLES
Section
Abandoned Vehicles and Personalty
   
75.001   Definitions
   
75.002   Nuisance declared
   
75.003   Duty of owner
   
75.004   Abatement by village; costs to owner
   
75.005   Sale of personalty; disposition of funds
   
75.006   Non-liability of village or towing service
Towing and Impoundment
   
75.020   Definitions
   
75.021   Authority to tow; facilities for impoundment
   
75.022   Vehicle impoundment
   
75.023   Impoundment for offenses under the village code, the Illinois Criminal
Code of 1961 and the Illinois Vehicle Code
   
75.024   Towing rates and charges
   
75.025   Requirements for towing services
   
75.026   Samples of forms
Towing Unauthorized Vehicles
   
75.040   Report; definition; procedure
   
75.041   Removal of vehicle by owner or legal possessor of vehicle
   
75.042   Towing of vehicle containing passenger prohibited
   
75.043   Insurance required
Vehicle Immobilization; Parking Violation Complaints
   
75.055   Vehicle immobilization
   
75.056   Vehicle impoundment
   
75.057   Unauthorized removal of a vehicle or device prohibited
 
   
75.999   Penalty
ABANDONED VEHICLES AND PERSONALTY
§ 75.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE AND PERSONAL PROPERTY. Unsheltered storage of old, unused,
wrecked, derelict, stripped, junked and other automobiles not in good and safe
operating condition, whether licensed or unlicensed, and any other vehicles,
machinery, implements and/or equipment and personal property of any kind which
is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured,
which hereinafter are collectively described as “said personalty”, which, for a
period of at least ten days, is incapable of being driven under its own power
or used for the purpose for which it was manufactured, is hereby declared to be
abandoned. Historic or antique vehicles or vehicles on the premises of a place
of business legally licensed and engaged in wrecking, junking or repairing
motor vehicles shall not be deemed ABANDONED.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the village which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, the following: automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor,
buggy and wagon.
(Prior Code, § 4-11-1)
§ 75.002 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   Unsheltered storage of vehicles and personalty. Unsheltered storage of
old, wrecked, derelict, unused, stripped, junked and other automobiles not in
good and safe operating condition, whether licensed or unlicensed, and other
vehicles, machinery, implements and/or equipment and personal property of any
kind which are no longer safely usable for the purposes for which they were
manufactured, which are located on any street or highway in the village or on
any real property, public or private, within the corporate limits of the
village for a period of ten days or more, is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and dangerous to the public health, safety and welfare of the general public.
   (B)   Vehicle repairs on residential streets. Any repairs to automobiles or
motor vehicles in the residential section of the village other than in
completely enclosed buildings is declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the
public safety.
(Prior Code, § 4-11-2)
§ 75.003 DUTY OF OWNER.
   (A)   The owner, owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any real
property within the corporate limits of the village upon which such storage is
made, and also the owner, owners and/or lessees of said personalty involved in
such storage (all of whom are hereinafter referred to collectively as “owners”)
shall jointly and severally abate said nuisance by the prompt removal of said
personalty into completely enclosed buildings if within the corporate limits of
the village, or otherwise to remove it to a location outside of said corporate
limits of the village.
   (B)   All persons are required to dispose of any abandoned property under
their control upon written notice received from the corporate authorities or
from the Chief of Police or any member of his Department designated by him or
her commanding such disposition of said abandoned property.
(Prior Code, § 4-11-3)
§ 75.004 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS TO OWNER.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or any member of his or her Department designated
by him or her is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any abandoned
property left any place within the village which reasonably appears to be in
violation of this subchapter or which reasonably appears to be lost, stolen or
unclaimed, or which is abandoned as defined herein. Such property shall be
impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of according to law.
   (B)   Whenever said owners fail to abate said nuisance, then the village
shall remove the said personalty to a location of its selection, the expenses
therefor to be billed to said owners, jointly and severally, said bill to be
recoverable in a suit at law.
(Prior Code, § 4-11-4)
§ 75.005 SALE OF PERSONALTY; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   When said personalty has been removed and placed in storage by the village,
as provided for herein, said personalty shall be sold by the village after the
lapse of such time as is provided by law. If the proceeds are insufficient to
pay the costs of the abatement, said owners shall be liable to the village for
the balance of the costs, jointly and severally, to be recoverable in a suit at
law. If the proceeds are in excess of the costs, the balance shall be paid to
said owners, if known, or deposited in the village treasury for their use.
(Prior Code, § 4-11-5)
§ 75.006 NON-LIABILITY OF VILLAGE OR TOWING SERVICE.
   The corporate authorities or law enforcement officer or towing service
owner, operator or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for
damages in any action brought by the registered owner, former registered owner,
or his or her legal representative, lienholder or any other person legally
entitled to the possession of any abandoned property when said abandoned
property was processed or disposed of according to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-11-6)
TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT
§ 75.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following terms shall have the
meanings stated in this section. Any term not defined herein shall have the
meaning ascribed to it in other ordinances of this municipality, and if not
defined in any other municipal ordinances, it shall have the meaning ascribed
in 625 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
   ABANDONED VEHICLES.
      (1)   A vehicle parked or otherwise located on the public way and:
         (a)   In such a state of disrepair that it is incapable of being
driven; or
         (b)   That has been unmoved for a period of at least 24 hours and from
its condition, the period during which it has not been moved or some other
circumstance appears to have been, and will be presumed to have been, abandoned
by its owner.
      (2)   Vehicles parked in a public parking lot or on private property
without the consent of the lot owner, proprietor or agent of the property,
which person has requested that the vehicle be towed; or
      (3)   A vehicle defined as abandoned, or capable of being towed, by any
other ordinances of the municipality, and which does not fall into the
categories of “hazardous” or “unlawful” vehicles, and therefore is not subject
to an immediate tow.
   HAZARDOUS VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that has been involved in an accident and is disabled or
cannot be immediately moved by the owner or operator of the vehicle;
      (2)   A vehicle that presents immediate danger to the health or welfare
of members of the public;
      (3)   A vehicle abandoned or disabled on a public street, way or alley
that is impeding the orderly flow of traffic or poses a potential danger to a
pedestrian and other operators of vehicles;
      (4)   A vehicle that must be moved to allow for proper municipal snow
removal from a public street, way or alley; or
      (5)   A vehicle that contains unlawful fireworks.
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title to the vehicle, or the right of
possession of the vehicle.
   UNLAWFUL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that has been reported stolen or is the subject of a
search and seizure by the Police Department; or
      (2)   A vehicle parked in violation of state statutes or ordinances of
the municipality which prohibit parking at the location in question or for the
period of time for which the vehicle has been parked, and where either the
statute or the ordinance authorize the vehicle to be towed and the signs posted
at the general location note that fact.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street, highway or any public way, except devices
moved by human power, devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks
and snowmobiles.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-1) (Ord. 05-319, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 75.021 AUTHORITY TO TOW; FACILITIES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The towing of vehicles by the municipality, or by its approved towing
service operators on behalf of the municipality, shall be authorized only by
the Police Department and only under the circumstances herein provided. Towed
vehicles shall be impounded at facilities designated by the Police Department
until lawfully claimed or disposed of pursuant to state law, 625 ILCS 5/4-201
et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-2)
§ 75.022 VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The owner of a vehicle seized and impounded pursuant to this
subchapter shall be assessed an administrative penalty in the amount of $500,
towing and storage fees, any other fees deemed applicable and shall have the
right to request a preliminary hearing in person and in writing at the
village’s Police Department within 15 days after the vehicle is seized and
impounded. A towing adjudicator, appointed by the Mayor or the Chief of the
Police Department, shall conduct such preliminary hearing within 48 hours of
the request, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, unless the
vehicle was seized and impounded and the Police Department determines that it
must retain custody of the vehicle under applicable state or federal forfeiture
law or if the vehicle is being held pending an investigation. If, after the
preliminary hearing, the towing adjudicator determines that there is probable
cause to show that the vehicle was used in violation of this code, the towing
adjudicator shall order the continued impoundment of the vehicle unless the
owner of the vehicle pays to the village the amount of the administrative
penalty, plus fees for towing and storing the vehicle, and any other fees
deemed applicable. If the vehicle is also subject to immobilization for unpaid
final determinations of parking and/or compliance violations, the owner of the
vehicle must also pay the amounts due for all such outstanding violations prior
to the release of the vehicle. If the towing adjudicator determines that there
is no such probable cause, the vehicle shall be returned without penalty or
other fees.
   (B)   Within ten days after a vehicle is seized and impounded, the police
department shall notify, by personal service or certified mail, the owner of
record and any lienholder of record of the owner’s right to request a hearing
before an Administrative Hearing Officer on the seizure and impoundment of the
vehicle. The notice shall state the penalties which may be imposed if no
hearing is requested or where penalty and fees assessed remain unpaid, include
the village’s right to sell such vehicle and apply all proceeds from the sale
thereof to the payment of all penalties and fees due and owing. The owner of
record seeking a hearing must file a written request for a hearing with the
village’s Police Department no later than 15 days after the date of the notice
was mailed. The hearing date must be no more than 30 days, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays and legal holidays, after a request for a hearing has been filed. If,
after the hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer determines by a
preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used in violation of this
code the Administrative Hearing Officer shall enter an order finding the owner
of record liable to the village for the amount of the administrative penalty,
plus towing and storage fees, and any other applicable fees. If, after a
hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer does not determine by a
preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used in such a violation,
the Administrative Hearing Officer shall enter an order finding for the owner
and for the return of the vehicle or previously paid penalty and fees; provided
that, if the vehicle was seized and impounded pursuant an investigation the
vehicle shall not be returned unless and until permitted by the investigating
division; and, provided that, the vehicle was seized and impounded pursuant
state and or federal law, the vehicle shall not be returned unless and until
the village receives notice from the appropriate state, or where applicable,
federal officials that:
      (1)   Forfeiture proceedings will not be instituted; or
      (2)   Forfeiture proceedings have concluded and there is a settlement or
a court order providing that the vehicle shall be returned to the owner of
record.
   (C)   If the owner of record requests a hearing but fails to appear at the
hearing or fails to request a hearing in a timely manner, the owner of record
shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing and an
Administrative Hearing Officer shall enter a default order in favor of the
village in the amount of the administrative penalty prescribed for the
violation, plus towing and storage fees. However, if the owner is as follows,
then the payment shall be deemed an acknowledgment of liability and no
adjudication shall be required, then the payment shall be deemed an
acknowledgment of liability and no adjudication shall be required:
      (1)   Redeemed the vehicle by payment of the appropriate penalty and
fees;
      (2)   Was notified of the owner’s right to request a hearing; and
      (3)   Failed to timely request a hearing.
   (D)   When a vehicle violates this section the administrative penalty, plus
towing and storage fees, and any applicable fees shall constitute a debt due
and owing to the village. Any such fine, other sanction or costs imposed by an
Administrative Hearing Officer’s order that remain unpaid after the exhaustion
of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures shall be a debt due
and owing the village and, as such, may be collected in accordance with
applicable law. After the expiration of the period in which judicial review may
be sought, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the findings,
decision and order of an Administrative Hearing Officer may be enforced in the
same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. Upon
being recorded in the manner required by Art. XII of the Code of Civil
Procedure or by the Uniform Commercial Code, a lien shall be imposed on the
real estate or personal estate, or both, of the respondent in the amount of a
debt due and owing the village. The lien may be enforced in the same manner as
a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Nothing in this section shall prevent the village from enforcing or seeking to
enforce any order of an Administrative Hearing Officer in any manner which is
in accordance with applicable law. Any amounts paid pursuant to this section
shall be applied to the penalty.
   (E)   (1)   Except as provided otherwise in this section, a vehicle shall
continue to be impounded until:
         (a)   The administrative penalty, plus any applicable fees including
towing and storage fees are paid to the village, in which case possession of
the vehicle shall be given to the person who is legally entitled to possess the
vehicle; or
         (b)   The vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to satisfy a
judgment or enforce a lien as provided by law.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, whenever a
person with a lien of record against a vehicle impounded under this section has
commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to
that person if he or she pays the applicable fees including towing and storage
fees and agrees in writing to refund to the village the net proceeds of any
foreclosure sale, less any amounts necessary to pay all lienholders of record,
up to the total amount of penalties imposed under this section. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this section, no vehicle that was seized and impounded
pursuant to an investigation shall be returned unless and until permitted by
investigating division. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no
vehicle that was seized and impounded pursuant state and or federal laws shall
be returned to the record owner unless and until the village has received
notice from the appropriate state, or where applicable, federal officials that:
         (a)   Forfeiture proceedings will not be instituted; or
         (b)   Forfeiture proceedings have concluded and there is a settlement
or a court order providing that the vehicle shall be shall be returned to the
owner of record.
   (F)   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within ten days after the
expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek judicial
review of the village’s action under this section; or, if judicial review is
sought, the time at which a final judgment is rendered in favor of the village;
or the time a final administrative decision is rendered against an owner of
record who is in default, and no motion to vacate said default has been filed,
may be disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as provided by law; provided that,
if the vehicle was seized and impounded pursuant to state and or federal laws
and proceedings have been instituted under state or federal drug asset
forfeiture laws, the vehicle may not be disposed of by the village, except as
consistent with those proceedings.
   (G)   As used in this section, the OWNER OF RECORD of a vehicle means the
record titleholder.
   (H)   In a hearing on the propriety of impoundment under this section, any
sworn or affirmed report, including a report prepared in compliance with § 11-
501.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, that is prepared in the performance of a
law enforcement officer’s duties and sufficiently describes the circumstances
leading to the impoundment, shall be admissible evidence of the vehicle owner’s
liability under this section of this code, and shall support a finding of the
vehicle owner’s liability, unless rebutted by clear and convincing evidence.
   (I)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is not considered to have been
used in a violation that would render the vehicle eligible for towing if:
      (1)   The vehicle used in the violation was stolen at the time and the
theft was reported to the appropriate police authorities within 24 hours after
the theft was discovered or reasonably should have been discovered;
      (2)   The vehicle was operating as a common carrier and the violation
occurred without the knowledge of the person in control of the vehicle; or
      (3)   The alleged owner provides adequate proof that the vehicle had been
sold to another person prior to the violation.
   (J)   (1)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and pursuant to this section, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility controlled by the
village or its agents.
      (2)   When the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify the
person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the seizure and of the
vehicle owner’s right to request a preliminary hearing to be conducted under
this section.
(Ord. 16-013, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 75.023 IMPOUNDMENT FOR OFFENSES UNDER THE VILLAGE CODE, THE ILLINOIS CRIMINAL
CODE OF 1961 AND THE ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   Municipal code home rule ordinance violations. This section is
applicable to motor vehicles towed and/or impounded pursuant to this section
for the following offenses under the municipal code.
      (1)   Obedience to police: impoundment; $750 fine.
         (a)   Members of the Police Department and part-time/auxiliary police
assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police
officer. Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any motor
vehicle who, having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer
directing such driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, to
willfully fail to obey such direction, to increase his or her speed, to
extinguish his or her lights or otherwise flee or attempt to evade the police
officer. The signal given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren,
red or blue light and the officer giving such signal shall be in a police
uniform and, if driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked showing it to
be an official police vehicle.
         (c)   The provisions of this division (A)(1) shall apply whenever a
motor vehicle in seized and impounded pursuant to this division (A)(1). Any
vehicle used in a violation of §
70.002 of this code of ordinances shall be subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this division (A)(1). The owner of record of such vehicle shall be
liable to the village for an administrative penalty of $750, in addition to
fees for the towing and storage of the vehicle.
      (2)   Unlawful drugs in motor vehicle: impoundment; $1,000 fine.
         (a)   The owner of record of any motor vehicle that contains any
controlled substance or cannabis, as defined in the Controlled Substances Act,
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq., and the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.,
or that is used in the purchase, attempt to purchase, sale or attempt to sell
such controlled substances or cannabis shall be liable to the village for an
administrative penalty of $1,000, plus any applicable towing and storage fees.
Any vehicle used in a violation of §
70.006 of this code of ordinances shall be subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this section.
         (b)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
controlled by the village or its agent. When the vehicle is towed, the police
officer shall notify any person identifying himself or herself as the owner of
the vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the
seizure and of the vehicle owner’s right to request a preliminary hearing to be
conducted under §
75.022 of this chapter.
         (c)   The provisions of §
75.022 of this chapter shall apply whenever a motor vehicle in seized and
impounded pursuant to this division (A). Any such vehicle used in a violation
of §
70.006 of this code of ordinances shall be subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this section. The owner of record of such vehicle shall be liable
to the village for an administrative penalty of $1,000 in addition to fees for
the towing and storage of the vehicle.
      (3)   Unlawful firearm and laser accessory in motor vehicle: impoundment;
$1,000 fine.
         (a)   The owner of record of any motor vehicle that contains an
unregistered firearm, a firearm that is not broken down in a non-functioning
state, or a laser sight accessory shall be liable to the village for an
administrative penalty of $1,000, plus any towing and storage fees applicable
under §
75.022 of this chapter. Any such vehicle shall be subject to seizure and
impoundment pursuant to this section.
         (b)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
controlled by the village or its agents. Before or at the time the vehicle is
towed, the police officer shall notify any person identifying himself or
herself as the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, of
the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner’s right to request a vehicle
impoundment hearing to be conducted under §
75.022 of this chapter.
         (c)   The provisions of §
75.022 of this chapter shall apply whenever a motor vehicle is seized and
impounded pursuant to this division (A). Any such vehicle used in a violation
of §§
135.15 through
135.27 of this code of ordinances shall be subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this section. The owner of record of such vehicle shall be liable
to the village for an administrative penalty of $1,000, in addition to fees for
the towing and storage of the vehicle.
      (4)   Unlawful fireworks: $1,000 fine. The provisions of this division
(A) shall apply whenever a motor vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to
this section. Any such vehicle used in a violation hereof shall be subject to
seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section. The owner of record of such
vehicle shall be liable to the village for an administrative penalty of $1,000,
in addition to fees for the towing and storage of the vehicle.
      (5)   Driving while intoxicated alcohol/drugs: impoundment; $1,000 fine.
         (a)   No person shall drive or be in actual physical control of any
vehicle within the village while under the influence of alcohol, other drug or
drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination thereof, as
defined and prohibited by state statutes and 625 ILCS 5/11-501, as amended.
         (b)   Any vehicle used in a violation of this division (A)(5) shall be
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section. The owner of
record of such vehicle shall be liable to the village for an administrative
penalty of $1,000, in addition to fees for the towing and storage of the
vehicle.
         (c)   The provisions of §
75.022 of this chapter shall apply whenever a motor vehicle is seized and
impounded pursuant to this division (A). Any such vehicle used in a violation
of §
70.006 of this code of ordinances shall be subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this section. The owner of record of such vehicle shall be liable
to the village for an administrative penalty of $1,000, in addition to fees for
the towing and storage of the vehicle.
      (6)   Prostitution: $750 fine.
         (a)   Prostitution or soliciting for prostitution prohibited. It is
unlawful for any person to practice prostitution or to solicit on any street,
alley or public place in the village for the purpose of inducing any person to
engage in prostitution or any unlawful sexual intercourse of any kind.
         (b)   House of prostitution. It is unlawful for any person to
maintain, frequent or patronize any house of ill-fame or house of prostitution
in the village.
         (c)   Applicability.
            1.   The provisions of this division (A)(6) shall apply whenever a
motor vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to this division (A). Any
vehicle used in a violation of §§
132.20 through
132.22 of this code of ordinances shall be subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this section. The owner of record of such vehicle shall be liable
to the village for an administrative penalty of $750, in addition to fees for
the towing and storage of the vehicle.
            2.   This division (A)(6) is applicable to motor vehicles towed
and/or impounded for the following offenses under the Illinois Criminal Code of
1961 (720 ILCS), as amended.
   (B)   The Illinois Criminal Code (720 ILCS).
      (1)   Cannabis, controlled substances and drug paraphernalia: $1,000
fine. The provisions of this division (B)(1) shall apply whenever a motor
vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to this division (B)(1). Any such
vehicle used in a violation of 720 ILCS 550/4, 720 ILCS 550/5, 720 ILCS 550/
5.1, 720 ILCS 550/5.2, 720 ILCS 550/8, 720 ILCS 570 (the Controlled Substances
Act) or 720 ILCS 600/3.5 of the Illinois Criminal Code shall be subject to
seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section. The owner of record of such
vehicle shall be liable to the village for an administrative penalty of $1,000,
in addition to fees for the towing and storage of the vehicle.
         (a)   720 ILCS 550/4, Possession of Cannabis;
         (b)   720 ILCS 550/5, Manufacture, Delivery, Possession-Intent to
Deliver Cannabis;
         (c)   720 ILCS 550/5.1, Cannabis Trafficking;
         (d)   720 ILCS 550/5.2, Delivery of Cannabis on School Grounds;
         (e)   720 ILCS 550/8, Possession of Cannabis;
         (f)   720 ILCS 570, para. 401 through 413 of the Controlled Substances
Act; and
         (g)   720 ILCS 600/3.5, Possession of Drug Paraphernalia.
      (2)   Prostitution: $1,000 fine. The provisions of this division (B)(2)
shall apply whenever a motor vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to this
division (B)(2). Any vehicle used in a violation of 720 ILCS 5/11-14, 720 ILCS
5/11-18 or 720 ILCS 5/11-19 shall be subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this section. The owner of record of such vehicle shall be liable
to the village for an administrative penalty of $1,000, in addition to fees for
the towing and storage of the vehicle:
         (a)   720 ILCS 5/11-14, Prostitution;
         (b)   720 ILCS 5/11-14.1, Solicitation of a Sexual Act;
         (c)   720 ILCS 5/11-14.3, Promoting Prostitution;
         (d)   720 ILCS 5/11-14.4, Promoting Juvenile Prostitution;
         (e)   720 ILCS 5/11-18, Patronizing a Prostitute;
         (f)   720 ILCS 5/11-18.1, Patronizing a Juvenile Prostitute;
         (g)   720 ILCS 5/11-19, Pimping;
         (h)   720 ILCS 5/11-19.1, Juvenile Pimping or Aggravated Juvenile
Pimping; and
         (i)   720 ILCS 5/11-19.2, Exploitation of a Child.
   (C)   The Illinois Vehicle Code. This division (C) is applicable to motor
vehicles towed and/or impounded pursuant for the following offenses under the
Illinois Vehicle Code, (625 ILCS), as amended:
      (1)   DUI and transportation of open alcohol: $1,000 fine.
         (a)   625 ILCS 5/11-501, DUI Alcohol, Intoxicating Compounds and/or
other Drugs; and (Note: maximum 12-hour tow and hold under 625 ILCS 4-203(e).)
         (b)   625 ILCS 5/5-502, Transportation or Possession of Open Alcoholic
Liquor in Vehicle. Any vehicle used in a violation of 625 ILCS 5/11-501 (DUI)
or 625 ILCS 5/502 (Possession of Alcohol) shall be subject to seizure and
impoundment pursuant to this division (C)(1). The owner of record of such
vehicle shall be liable to the village for an administrative penalty of $1,000,
in addition to fees for the towing and storage of the vehicle.
      (2)   Driver’s license, vehicle registration, insurance: $750 fine. Any
vehicle used in a violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-101, 65 ILCS 5/6-303(a)(1), 65 ILCS
5/1-1-1 et seq., 625 ILCS 5/3-702, 625 ILCS 5/3-703, 625 ILCS 5/3-708 or 625
ILCS 5/3-710 shall be subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this
division (C)(2). The owner of record of such vehicle shall be liable to the
village for an administrative penalty of $750, in addition to fees for the
towing and storage of the vehicle.
         (a)   625 ILCS 5/6-101, Drivers Must Have Licenses or Permits; (This
does not include expired driver’s license.)
         (b)   625 ILCS 5/6-303(a)(1), Operating a Motor Vehicle With a
Suspended Driver’s License;
         (c)   65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq., the state’s Municipal Code; (Note:
mandatory tow under 625 ILCS 5/6-303E if drive suspended/revoked and no
insurance.)
         (d)   625 ILCS 5/3-702, Operation When Registration Cancelled,
Suspended or Revoked;
         (e)   625 ILCS 5/3-703, Operating with False, Fraudulent, Stolen or
Altered Registration;
         (f)   625 ILCS 5/3-708, Operating While Registration Suspended for
Mandatory Insurance; and
         (g)   625 ILCS 5/3-710, Presenting, Displaying a False, Fraudulent
Insurance Card.
(Ord. 05-319, passed 11-21-2005; Ord. 12-565, passed 7-16-2012)
§ 75.024 TOWING RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Maximum towing and storage rates established.
      (1)   The owner shall pay fees to the towing service operator for towing
and storage on police-ordered tows at rates that do not exceed maximum amounts
to be administratively established by the Chief of Police and which may be
revised from time to time. The basic rates for such fees shall be shown in the
form and sign concerning vehicle release requirements set forth in §
75.026 of this chapter. However, nothing in this subchapter is intended to
prevent a competitive towing service operator from charging less than the
established maximum rates for police-ordered or any other tows.
      (2)   In arriving at the maximum rates for various services, the Chief of
Police shall consider such matters as the prevalent market rates in the area
for the different types of vehicles, the types of storage and area requirements
for categories such as large trucks and commercial vehicles, and the relative
difficulties and amount of work required to perform various types of towing
operations.
   (B)   Special towing rates. For particularly difficult or unusual towing
jobs such as large or serious accidents, the Chief of Police is authorized to
allow towing operators to charge rates above those established for normal
situations, which special charges must be based upon the costs of services
provided, taking into account such matters as the man-hours and equipment time
required for the job. A towing service operator must fully itemize, in writing,
the details of such a billing at special rates for a particularly difficult or
unusual tow and supply a copy of the itemized bill to the owner and to the
Police Department. Any such special rates charged must be customary in the
towing industry in the area for the nature and extent of the services provided.
   (C)   Schedule of rates available. Every towing service operator and the
Police Department shall have available a copy of the complete current rate
schedule and any special rate policy established by the Chief of Police for
vehicle owners to view upon request.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-5)
§ 75.025 REQUIREMENTS FOR TOWING SERVICES.
   (A)   Conditions of tow. Notwithstanding any other ordinance or statutory
provisions to the contrary, any towing service operator authorized to perform
tows on behalf of the municipality must perform its services subject to the
provisions of this subchapter. However, the towing company shall have the right
to recover the reasonable value of its services for police-ordered tows, which
are not paid by the vehicle owner, from the municipality; provided, however,
that, if a tow or the charge for a tow is found by a court to be illegal and
the towing service operator is required to return the charge for the tow to the
owner of the vehicle, the municipality shall not be liable to reimburse the
operator for towing charges.
   (B)   Signs posted.
      (1)   All approved towing service operators shall prominently post at
least one sign, with dimensions of at least 12 inches by 18 inches, indicating
the opportunity and procedures for a hearing to contest the validity of a towed
vehicle.
      (2)   The sign, the form for which is set out in §
75.026 of this chapter, shall be placed in locations readily visible to the
public transacting business at any towing facility.
      (3)   If a towing service operator performs services for more than one
municipality, the information for contacting the various appropriate municipal
offices can be listed in one such sign, the format for which shall be
substantially similar to the form set out in §
75.026 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-6)
§ 75.026 SAMPLES OF FORMS.
   (A)   Forms for post-tow notice and signs.
      (1)   The following form shall be utilized in the administration of §§
75.023,
75.024 and
75.025 of this chapter for posting in towing establishments and mailing or
delivering to owners:
 
NOTICE OF VEHICLE RELEASE
 
REQUIREMENTS AND HEARING RIGHTS
 
Before the owner or person entitled to possession of any impounded vehicle shall
be permitted to remove the same from custody of the Police Department or towing
service operator, he or she shall furnish evidence of his or her identity and
ownership of the vehicle and right of possession thereto, shall sign a receipt for
the vehicle, and shall pay a fee not exceeding $55 for a passenger vehicle of not
more than seven passengers, and $85 for a truck or commercial vehicle to cover the
cost of towing or removal to a vehicle pound or authorized garage and, in addition
thereto, the cost of storage not exceeding $10 per day for passenger vehicle of
not more than seven passengers, and $20 per day for a truck or commercial vehicle.
However, higher fees may necessarily be charged in particularly difficult or
unusual towing or storage circumstances, for which rate information is available
upon request at the Police Department or towing business location. If the owner or
person entitled to possession wishes to contest the validity of the tow, he or she
may obtain a hearing under the conditions of either paragraph (A) or (B) stated
below:
 
TO OBTAIN HEARING
 
(A)   If the vehicle has been released, he or she may, within 15 days of the
release of the vehicle or the mailing or personal delivery to him or her of the
notification of the tow, whichever occurs first, request a hearing by contacting
in person the office of:
 
Village of Dolton Police Department
14030 Park Avenue
Dolton, Illinois 60419
(312) 841-2533
 
Anyone residing more than 50 miles away from the municipality may make a request
for hearing by mail. The right to any hearing will be deemed waived unless a
written request for hearing is received by the above office within the applicable
15-day period.
 
(B)   If the vehicle is still impounded, he or she may contact the above office
and obtain a hearing within the next day after the request, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays, unless the request is made after 3:00 p.m., or unless there
are particular difficulties in having the hearing on the next day, in which case
the hearing will take place on the second day thereafter, excluding weekends and
holidays.
 
NATURE OF HEARING
 
The hearing shall be conducted according to municipal ordinance provisions, and
shall determine the validity of the impounding of the vehicle and the imposition
or refund of any towing or storage charges, but the hearing will not determine or
adjudicate any citations issued.
 
If the hearing officer sustains the validity of the tow and storage, the owner or
person entitled to possession will be required to pay all unpaid towing and
storage fees before obtaining the release of the vehicle.
 
      (2)   The following form shall be utilized in the administration of §§
75.022 and
75.023 of this chapter for the mailing or delivery of post-tow notice to
owners, including the form set forth in division (A)(1) above:
 
Post-Tow Incident Report
No.                                                
 
TO:                                                                                                                
[Name]
 
                                                                                                             
[Address]
 
 
Date of Certified or Registered Mailing:                                
 
Date and Time of or the Name of Person Making Personal
Delivery:                                                                            
 
 
POST-TOW NOTICE
 
You are listed as the registered owner or person entitled to possession of the following-described vehicle:
 
[Make]     [Model/Year]
[other identifying features]
[license plate number, state and VIN]
 
Which is impounded at:
 
[name and address of towing service
operator or municipal auto pound]
 
The vehicle was towed from  [location]  on  [date]  by the authority of the municipality of [name of municipality] , as an unlawful or hazardous vehicle, to wit:
 
[facts forming basis of tow]
as defined in  [ordinance or statutory section]
 
The towing was authorized by  [ordinance or statutory section]  which provided that:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 
You have the rights to payment obligations as set forth in the enclosed notice of vehicle release requirements and hearing rights.
 
   (B)   Form for pre-tow notice. The following form shall be utilized in the
administration of §
75.022 of this chapter for the mailing or delivery of pre-tow notices to
owners:
 
Pre-Tow Incident Report
No.                                                
 
TO:                                                                                                                
[Name]
 
                                                                                                             
[Address]
 
Date of Certified or Registered Mailing:                                
 
Date and Time of or the Name of Person Making Personal
Delivery:                                                                            
 
 
PRE-TOW NOTICE
 
You are listed as the registered owner or person entitled to possession of the following-described vehicle:
 
[Make]     [Model/Year]
[other identifying features]
[license plate number, state and VIN]
 
Which is located at:
 
[location]  in an apparently abandoned or unusable condition, to-wit:
 
[facts forming basis of proposed tow]
 
as defined in  [ordinance or statutory section]
 
The municipality of  [name of municipality]  will tow the vehicle or cause it to be towed after seven days from the above date of mailing or personal delivery unless you move the vehicle to a lawful location or request a
hearing as set forth below. Any such hearing will only concern the proposed towing, and will not be determinative of or adjudicate any parking ticket or other citation concerning the vehicle. If the vehicle is towed, you
will be required to pay all towing and storage charges before the vehicle is released.
 
If you wish to request a hearing on the legality of the present location and condition of your vehicle, you must contact the office listed below and file in person a request for such hearing within seven days of the above
date of mailing or personal delivery, unless you live more than 50 miles from the municipality, in which case you may mail a request for hearing that must be received by the office listed below within seven days from the
mailing or personal delivery of this notice:
 
Village of Dolton Police Department
14030 Park Avenue
Dolton, Illinois 60419
(312) 841-2533
 
   (C)   Form for post-tow hearing. The following form shall be utilized by the
hearing officer for post-tow hearing decisions as required in §
75.022 of this chapter:
 
Post-Tow Incident Report No:                                     
 
POST-TOW HEARING DECISION
 
Following a hearing held after the towing of the vehicle as identified in post-tow notice bearing the same number as the report number stated above concerning the vehicle owned by or under the control of  [name of owner]  (“Owner”), the following findings and order are hereby entered, as checked in the appropriate box and entered on the appropriate lines:
 
Amount previously paid by Owner for Towing and Storage $                                              
 
   1.   Tow Authorized; Owner Responsible for All Charges. The towing and storage of the vehicle was authorized by the following law of the State of Illinois:                              ; or Municipal Ordinance No.                                  , and the owner is liable for the full amount of towing and storage fees incurred to date, in the amount of: $                                
 
   2.   Tow Not Authorized. There was no authorization in law for the towing and storage, or the municipal employee causing the vehicle to be towed did not comply with the requirements of the applicable statute or ordinance, as follows:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
 
The owner will not be charged for towing and storage and any amount previously paid will be refunded by the municipality as shown here: $                                     
 
   3.   Tow Authorized; Storage Partially Reimbursable. The towing of the vehicle was authorized by state law:                     ; or Municipal Ordinance No.                        but the owner was caused to incur additional improper storage charges because of improperly late notification of towing or other reasons for which the municipality or towing company are responsible, as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 
Storage Amount to be Excused or Reimbursed to Owner: $                                             
Towing and Storage Balance for which Owner is Responsible: $                                      
 
   4.   Owner Failed to Appear; No Continuance Requested. This finding constitutes a default against the owner on the matters stated in the post-tow notice. The owner is responsible for all towing and storage charges incurred to date, in the amount of: $                                 
 
After making the appropriate computations with the amounts stated above in the right-hand column for any amount previously paid by owner, and adding or subtracting the appropriate amounts listed under paragraphs 1, 2, 3 or 4, the final amount either owed by the owner to date or to be refunded to the owner is HEREBY ORDERED AS FOLLOWS:
 
Amount Currently Owed by Owner: $                                or
Amount to be Refunded to Owner: $                                
 
IMPORTANT FURTHER INFORMATION
 
If the vehicle is presently still impounded, an order for the re/ease of the vehicle is attached to this decision. The owner must take possession of the vehicle within 24 hours of the entry of this decision, or he may be responsible for further storage charges.
 
ENTERED:    [Date and Time]
 
SIGNATURE:                                                                                     
Hearing Officer
 
                                                                                  
Star Number
 
   (D)   Form for owner’s permission to tow stolen vehicle. The following form
shall be used by police officers when obtaining permission from vehicle owners
to tow stolen vehicles that are removed:
 
PERMISSION TO TOW STOLEN VEHICLE FORM
 
I,                                                                                                    , am the owner of a motor vehicle which I have
reported to the Police Department as having been stolen. The vehicle is described as follows:
 
[description of the vehicle]
 
I understand that the                                                         Police Department may transmit notice of this vehicle to other police agencies which may attempt to recover the
vehicle. I understand that if the vehicle is recovered, I have the option of requesting that the vehicle be towed to a vehicle pound location or left at the place where the vehicle has been found.
While not requiring the law enforcement agency which finds the vehicle to do so, I do hereby grant my permission to have the vehicle towed. I understand that if the vehicle is towed, I will be
required to pay reasonable towing and storage charges.
 
DATE:                                                                                       
 
                                                                        
Owner of Vehicle
 
(Prior Code, § 6-9-7) (Ord. 85-112, passed 6-4-1985)
TOWING UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES
§ 75.040 REPORT; DEFINITION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Within 30 minutes after towing any unauthorized vehicle from private
property, any person towing a vehicle from private property or his or her agent
or employer shall notify the village’s Police Department by using the non-
emergency police telephone number to report the year, make, model and state
license plate number of the towed vehicle and the location from which the
vehicle was towed. In addition to this notification, within 24 hours after
towing an unauthorized vehicle from private property, the towing firm or its
agent shall submit a written report to the Superintendent of Police containing
the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the towing firm and of the
person or persons making the tow;
      (2)   State license plate number of the vehicle towed;
      (3)   Vehicle identification number of the vehicle towed;
      (4)   Color, make and model of the towed vehicle;
      (5)   Date and time of towing;
      (6)   Address of place from which vehicle was towed;
      (7)   Names and addresses of any witnesses to the towing;
      (8)   Name of person with whom this towing agreement was made;
      (9)   Address of place where vehicle is stored; and
      (10)   State license plate number of the tow truck which made the tow.
   (B)   An unauthorized vehicle on private property shall mean any vehicle
parked or abandoned on private property without the consent of the property
owner or his or her authorized agent or any vehicle parked or abandoned on
private property in violation of any provision of this traffic code.
   (C)   Before a towing firm shall remove an unauthorized vehicle from private
property, the firm must first obtain written consent from the owner of the
private property or his or her authorized agent to remove the specific vehicle
in question, unless the firm has an agreement to remove all unauthorized
vehicles from the private property. Any tow firm or private property owner
issuing vehicle stickers for purposes of identification of vehicles authorized
to park on said private property is prohibited from towing or directing the tow
of a vehicle so long as the sticker or emblem is affixed anywhere on the
vehicle.
   (D)   (1)   When any owner enters into an agreement with a towing firm to
remove unauthorized vehicles from his or her private parking area, the towing
firm shall post a written notice of this arrangement prominently at all
entrances and exits to the parking areas, in clear view free from interference
from any natural or human-made objects. The signs shall be of a size at least
96 inches in height by 48 inches in width. Such sign shall be a least four feet
from the ground, but less than eight feet from the ground and shall be by
electrical illumination and noted with reflective paint, or both in that the
sign must be eligible at night. The lettering on these signs shall be in
prominent type at least five inches high and in a color that contrasts with the
background color of the sign. This sign shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   A general statement indicating who is allowed to park in the
area. The statement may use classes of persons as well as individuals;
         (b)   A warning that unauthorized vehicles will be towed;
         (c)   The name, address and telephone number of the towing company,
and the location to which the car will be towed, if different; and
         (d)   The fee charged by the towing firm to recover the vehicle and
whether cash, check or credit cards will be accepted in payment.
      (2)   Such notice shall be applicable to residential property which,
regardless as to whether the circumstances and the surrounding area is clearly
reserved or intended exclusively for the use or occupation of residents or
their vehicles.
      (3)   Upon the effective date of this subchapter, the towing firm shall
tender an executed copy of each agreement thereafter entered into for the
removal of unauthorized vehicles from a private parking area to the village’s
Police Department within five business days of execution of the agreement(s).
As to agreement(s) entered into prior to the effective date of this subchapter,
the towing firm shall, upon written request from the village, tender to the
village’s Police Department an executed copy of each agreement for the removal
of unauthorized vehicles from a private parking area in effect at the time of
the adoption of this subchapter.
   (E)   Division (D) above shall not apply to driveways or parking areas
serving three or fewer cars.
(Ord. 05-295, passed 6-23-2005; Ord. 05-310, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 75.041 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE BY OWNER OR LEGAL POSSESSOR OF VEHICLE.
   No vehicle shall be towed by any person from private property if the owner
or other person entitled to possession of the vehicle is present and offers to
remove such vehicle voluntarily prior to the time such person attempting to tow
removes such vehicle from the premises in question; provided that the owner or
other person so removes the vehicle immediately thereupon.
(Ord. 05-295, passed 6-23-2005)
§ 75.042 TOWING OF VEHICLE CONTAINING PASSENGER PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall be towed by any person from private property if the vehicle
to be towed contains one or more passengers. Any person who violates this
section shall be subject to the penalties described in §
75.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-295, passed 6-23-2005) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.043 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall tow any vehicle from private property nor shall any
person accept in storage a vehicle towed from private property unless, at the
time of the tow, there shall be liability insurance in effect in the name of
such person as provided herein. Every tow truck operator shall maintain a
liability insurance policy insuring the owner and the operator:
      (1)   For injury to person, in an amount not less than $100,000 to any
one person and $300,000 for any one accident;
      (2)   For damage to property other than a vehicle being towed, in an
amount not less than $50,000 for any one accident; and
      (3)   For damage to any vehicle towed by the tower, in an amount not less
than $15,000 per vehicle.
   (B)   Such insurance policy shall be issued by a firm properly qualified to
do business in the state and a certificate of the policy shall be filed with
the village and be carried in the cab of such tow truck and displayed on demand
to a police officer or other authorized government official.
(Ord. 05-295, passed 6-23-2005)
VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION; PARKING VIOLATION COMPLAINTS
§ 75.055 VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION.
   (A)   Eligibility for immobilization. Any motor vehicle whose registered
owner or lessee has been determined to be liable for three or more vehicular
standing, parking, compliance, automated speed enforcement or automated traffic
law violations, for which the fines, penalties and costs assessed remain
unpaid, may be immobilized or towed and impounded when:
      (1)   The Police Chief or his or her designee has determined that a
person is liable for three or more violations, for which the fines, penalties
and costs remain unpaid;
      (2)   The person determined to be liable for three or more violations is
the registered owner or lessee of a motor vehicle located within the village’s
geographical boundaries; and/or
      (3)   A notice of impending vehicle immobilization or towing and
impoundment (“seizure notice”) has been sent via first class mail, to the
registered owner or lessee of the motor vehicle located within the geographic
boundaries of the village at the address registered with the Secretary of
State, which contains, but shall not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   A final determination has been made on three or more vehicular
standing, parking, compliance, automated speed enforcement or automated traffic
law violations, for which the fines, penalties and costs remain unpaid;
         (b)   A listing of the violations for which the person has been
determined to be liable, which shall include for each violation:
            1.   The ticket number or violation notice number;
            2.   Date of issuance of the ticket; and
            3.   Total amount of fines, penalties and costs assessed.
         (c)   The motor vehicle owned or leased by the person and located
within the village is subject to immobilization and/or towing and impoundment
if the fines, penalties and costs are not paid within 14 days of the date of
the seizure notice;
         (d)   Date of impending immobilization;
         (e)   Date of impending towing and impoundment; and
         (f)   The registered owner or lessee may contest the validity of the
seizure notice by fully completing and signing the request for hearing portion
of the seizure notice and by filing the written request for hearing at the
office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services (“Administrative
Services”) within, but not later than, 14 days of the date of the seizure
notice and submitting such evidence which would conclusively disprove
liability, such as, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   The registered owner or lessee was not the registered owner
or, in the case of a leased vehicle, was not the lessee of the cited vehicle on
the date or dates the notices of violation were issued;
            2.   The fines, penalties and costs for the violations cited in the
seizure notice have been paid in full;
            3.   The registered owner or lessee has not accumulated three or
more final determinations of violations that were unpaid at the time the
seizure notice was issued. The request for hearing shall be deemed filed upon
receipt by Administrative Services; or
            4.   The registered owner or lessee to whom a seizure notice has
been sent has failed to make payment of the fines, penalties and costs as
specified in the seizure notice, and no timely request for hearing has been
filed with Administrative Services to contest the validity of the seizure
notice.
   (B)   Pre-immobilization hearing. Upon the receipt of a request for hearing
to contest the validity of the seizure notice of impending immobilization or
towing and impoundment, Administrative Services shall schedule an
administrative hearing with an Administrative Services Hearing Officer (Hearing
Officer) to contest the validity of the immobilization on the next available
hearing date, but in no case shall the hearing be scheduled later than 60 days
after the request for hearing is filed. Notice of the hearing date shall be
served upon the registered owner or lessee by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the address set forth on the request for hearing. Service of the
notice shall be complete on the date it is placed in the U.S. mail.
   (C)   Immobilization. After the expiration of 14 days after issuance of the
seizure notice of impending immobilization or towing and impoundment as set
forth in division (A)(3) above, if any of the fines, penalties or costs for the
violations cited in the seizure notice remain unpaid and the registered owner
or lessee has not contested the seizure notice or requested a hearing to
contest the notice in accordance with division (A)(3)(f) above, or the
registered owner or lessee has failed to appear at a hearing scheduled to
contest said seizure notice, or after such a hearing, the registered owner or
lessee has been found liable, the Police Department may cause an immobilization
device to be attached to the eligible vehicle in a manner to prevent the
operation of the vehicle when said vehicle is on the public way or any village-
owned property. If the vehicle subject to immobilization cannot be fitted with
a device because of the vehicle’s size and shape, the vehicle may be impounded.
(Ord. 13-021, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 75.056 VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The owner of a vehicle seized and impounded pursuant to this
subchapter shall be assessed an administrative penalty in the amount of $500,
towing and storage fees, any other fees deemed applicable and shall have the
right to request a preliminary hearing in person and in writing at the
village’s Police Department within 15 days after the vehicle is seized and
impounded. A towing adjudicator, appointed by the Mayor or the Chief of the
Police Department, shall conduct such preliminary hearing within 48 hours of
the request, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, unless the
vehicle was seized and impounded and the Police Department determines that it
must retain custody of the vehicle under applicable state or federal forfeiture
law or if the vehicle is being held pending an investigation. If, after the
preliminary hearing, the towing adjudicator determines that there is probable
cause to show that the vehicle was used in violation of this code, the towing
adjudicator shall order the continued impoundment of the vehicle unless the
owner of the vehicle pays to the village the amount of the administrative
penalty, plus fees for towing and storing the vehicle, and any other fees
deemed applicable. If the vehicle is also subject to immobilization for unpaid
final determinations of parking and/or compliance violations, the owner of the
vehicle must also pay the amounts due for all such outstanding violations prior
to the release of the vehicle. If the towing adjudicator determines that there
is no such probable cause the vehicle shall be returned without penalty or
other fees.
   (B)   Within ten days after a vehicle is seized and impounded, the Police
Department shall notify, by personal service or certified mail, the owner of
record and any lienholder of record of the owner’s right to request a hearing
before an Administrative Hearing Officer on the seizure and impoundment of the
vehicle. The notice shall state the penalties which may be imposed if no
hearing is requested or where penalty and fees assessed remain unpaid, include
the village’s right to sell such vehicle and apply all proceeds from the sale
thereof to the payment of all penalties and fees due and owing. The owner of
record seeking a hearing must file a written request for a hearing with the
village’s Police Department no later than 15 days after the date of the notice
was mailed. The hearing date must be no more than 30 days, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays and legal holidays, after a request for a hearing has been filed. If,
after the hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer determines by a
preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used in violation of this
code the Administrative Hearing Officer shall enter an order finding the owner
of record liable to the village for the amount of the administrative penalty,
plus towing and storage fees, and any other applicable fees. If, after a
hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer does not determine by a
preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used in such a violation,
the Administrative Hearing Officer shall enter an order finding for the owner
and for the return of the vehicle or previously paid penalty and fees; provided
that, if the vehicle was seized and impounded pursuant an investigation the
vehicle shall not be returned unless and until permitted by the Investigating
Division; and, provided that, the vehicle was seized and impounded pursuant
state and or federal law, the vehicle shall not be returned unless and until
the village receives notice from the appropriate state, or where applicable,
federal officials that:
      (1)   Forfeiture proceedings will not be instituted; or
      (2)   Forfeiture proceedings have concluded and there is a settlement or
a court order providing that the vehicle shall be returned to the owner of
record.
   (C)   If the owner of record requests a hearing but fails to appear at the
hearing or fails to request a hearing in a timely manner, the owner of record
shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing and an
Administrative Hearing Officer shall enter a default order in favor of the
village in the amount of the administrative penalty prescribed for the
violation, plus towing and storage fees. However, the payment shall be deemed
an acknowledgment of liability and no adjudication shall be required if the
owner:
      (1)   Redeemed the vehicle by payment of the appropriate penalty and
fees;
      (2)   Was notified of the owner’s right to request a hearing; and
      (3)   Failed to timely request a hearing.
   (D)   When a vehicle violates this section the administrative penalty, plus
towing and storage fees, and any applicable fees shall constitute a debt due
and owing to the village. Any such fine, other sanction or costs imposed by an
Administrative Hearing Officer’s order that remain unpaid after the exhaustion
of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures shall be a debt due
and owing the village and, as such, may be collected in accordance with
applicable law. After the expiration of the period in which judicial review may
be sought, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the findings,
decision and order of an Administrative Hearing Officer may be enforced in the
same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. Upon
being recorded in the manner required by Art. XII of the Code of Civil
Procedure, being 735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, or by
the Uniform Commercial Code, a lien shall be imposed on the real estate or
personal estate, or both, of the respondent in the amount of a debt due and
owing the village. The lien may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment
lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. Nothing in
this section shall prevent the village from enforcing or seeking to enforce any
order of an Administrative Hearing Officer in any manner which is in accordance
with applicable law. Any amounts paid pursuant to this section shall be applied
to the penalty.
   (E)   (1)   Except as provided otherwise in this section, a vehicle shall
continue to be impounded until:
         (a)   The administrative penalty, plus any applicable fees including
towing and storage fees are paid to the village, in which case possession of
the vehicle shall be given to the person who is legally entitled to possess the
vehicle; or
         (b)   The vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to satisfy a
judgment or enforce a lien as provided by law.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, whenever a
person with a lien of record against a vehicle impounded under this section has
commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to
that person if he or she pays the applicable fees including towing and storage
fees and agrees in writing to refund to the village the net proceeds of any
foreclosure sale, less any amounts necessary to pay all lienholders of record,
up to the total amount of penalties imposed under this section. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this section, no vehicle that was seized and impounded
pursuant to an investigation shall be returned unless and until permitted by
the Investigating Division. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, no vehicle that was seized and impounded pursuant state and or federal
laws shall be returned to the record owner unless and until the village has
received notice from the appropriate state, or where applicable, federal
officials that:
         (a)   Forfeiture proceedings will not be instituted; or
         (b)   Forfeiture proceedings have concluded and there is a settlement
or a court order providing that the vehicle shall be shall be returned to the
owner of record.
   (F)   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within ten days after the
expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek judicial
review of the village’s action under this section; or, if judicial review is
sought, the time at which a final judgment is rendered in favor of the village;
or the time a final administrative decision is rendered against an owner of
record who is in default, and no motion to vacate said default has been filed,
may be disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as provided by law; provided that,
if the vehicle was seized and impounded pursuant to state and or federal laws
and proceedings have been instituted under state or federal drug asset
forfeiture laws, the vehicle may not be disposed of by the village, except as
consistent with those proceedings.
   (G)   As used in this section, the OWNER OF RECORD of a vehicle means the
record titleholder.
   (H)   In a hearing on the propriety of impoundment under this section, any
sworn or affirmed report, including a report prepared in compliance with § 11-
501.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-501 and 5/11-501.1 as
now or hereafter amended, that is prepared in the performance of a law
enforcement officer’s duties and sufficiently describes the circumstances
leading to the impoundment, shall be admissible evidence of the vehicle owner’s
liability under this section of this code, and shall support a finding of the
vehicle owner’s liability, unless rebutted by clear and convincing evidence.
   (I)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is not considered to have been
used in a violation that would render the vehicle eligible for towing if:
      (1)   The vehicle used in the violation was stolen at the time and the
theft was reported to the appropriate police authorities within 24 hours after
the theft was discovered or reasonably should have been discovered;
      (2)   The vehicle was operating as a common carrier and the violation
occurred without the knowledge of the person in control of the vehicle; or
      (3)   The alleged owner provides adequate proof that the vehicle had been
sold to another person prior to the violation.
   (J)   (1)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and pursuant to this section, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility controlled by the
village or its agents.
      (2)   When the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify the
person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the seizure and of the
vehicle owner’s right to request a preliminary hearing to be conducted under
this section.
(Ord. 16-014, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 75.057 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF A VEHICLE OR DEVICE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall move or cause to be moved any vehicle that has an
immobilization device attached thereto, except as authorized by the Police
Chief or his or her designee or the Hearing Officer.
   (B)   No person shall remove or cause to have removed from any vehicle an
immobilization device placed thereon under the authority of the Police
Department unless authorized in writing to do so by the Police Chief or his or
her designee or the Hearing Officer.
(Ord. 16-014, passed 5-2-2016) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If said owners allow said nuisance to exist or fail to abate said
nuisance, they, and each of them, as per §§
75.001 through
75.006 of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined according to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day on which said nuisance is permitted to exist.
(Prior Code, § 4-11-7)
   (C)   Any person or any officer of any corporation or any partner of any
partnership, making a tow or authorizing a tow of a vehicle in violation of any
provision of §§
75.040 through
75.043 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500,
for the first offense and not less than; $500, nor more than $1,000, for the
second and each subsequent offense. Repeated offenses in excess of three may
also be punishable as a misdemeanor by incarceration for a term not to exceed
six months under the procedure set forth in § 1-2-1.1 of the Illinois Municipal
Code, being 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1 as now or hereafter amended, and the provisions
of the Illinois Code of Criminal Procedure, as amended, in a separate
proceeding. Any person, or any officer of any corporation, if such person is a
corporation and the corporation has been guilty of such repeated offenses, or
any partner of any partnership, if such person is a partnership and the
partnership has been guilty of such repeated offenses, shall be subject to
incarceration as provided herein.
   (D)   Any person who is found to have violated §
75.057 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in the maximum amount allowed
by the village code and shall be additionally liable for the cost to replace or
repair the vehicle immobilization device.
(Ord. 85-120, passed 7-2-1985; Ord. 05-295, passed 6-23-2005; Ord. 16-014,
passed 5-2-2016)
CHAPTER 76: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
76.001   Riding on bicycles and motorcycles
Bicycles
   
76.015   Definition
   
76.016   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
76.017   Operation of bicycles
   
76.018   Bicycle equipment
   
76.019   Duty of parent or guardian
   
76.020   Application of provisions
Motorcycles
   
76.035   Definition
   
76.036   License fee
   
76.037   Compliance with motor vehicle regulations
   
76.038   Operation of motorcycles
   
76.039   Rider and vehicle equipment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 76.001 RIDING ON BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride upon any bicycle
propelled by human power upon any street, or for any person to ride upon any
motorcycle other than upon a seat permanently attached to said vehicle to the
right or rear of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3) Penalty, see §
70.999
BICYCLES
§ 76.015 DEFINITION.
   The word BICYCLE means every device propelled by human power upon which any
person may ride, having two tandem wheels, either of which is more than 16
inches in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1-1)
§ 76.016 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Wherever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or “U” turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except when such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1-2)
§ 76.017 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Riding on bicycles.
      (1)   A person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any other
person or persons upon such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and
regular seat designed and intended for such purpose, nor shall any person ride
upon a bicycle other than as above authorized.
      (2)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at any time than the
number for which it is designed or equipped.
   (B)   Speed. No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (C)   Riding on right. Every person operating a bicycle upon a public street
or roadway shall ride as near to the right side thereof as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction.
   (D)   Emerging from alley or driveway. The operator of a bicycle emerging
from an alley, driveway or building, shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk area and upon entering the public
street or roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
said street or roadway.
   (E)   Parking. No person shall park a bicycle upon a public street or
roadway, nor upon a sidewalk, except as follows:
      (1)   On a sidewalk in a rack designed and installed for that purpose;
and
      (2)   On a sidewalk adjacent to a building with the bicycle resting on
its own standard; provided, no part of the bicycle shall be more than two and
one-half feet from the adjacent building.
   (F)   Carrying articles. No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping both hands
upon the handlebars.
   (G)   Clinging to vehicles. No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach
said bicycle or himself or herself by clinging or otherwise to any vehicle.
   (H)   Riding in a group. Persons operating bicycles shall ride in single
file.
   (I)   Trick riding. It is unlawful for any person operating a bicycle within
the village to guide the bicycle in any manner except through the use of both
hands upon the handlebars thereof, or otherwise to indulge in any kind of trick
or unsafe riding.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1-3) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 76.018 BICYCLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Lamps and reflectors. Every bicycle, when in use during the period
from sunrise to sunset or at any other time when visibility is so limited as to
require the use of lights, shall be equipped with a lamp on the front which
shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which has been approved by
the Secretary of State of Illinois. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in lieu to the red reflector.
   (B)   Brakes. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheel skid on a dry, level, clean pavement.
   (C)   Bell or signal device. No person shall operate a bicycle on the public
ways of the village unless it is equipped with a bell or other device capable
of giving a signal, audible for a distance of at least 100 feet; except that, a
bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use, any siren or
whistle upon a bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1-4) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 76.019 DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   The parent of any minor child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1-5) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 76.020 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated
upon any public street, roadway, alley, sidewalk or other public way within the
village.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1-6)
MOTORCYCLES
§ 76.035 DEFINITION.
   A MOTORCYCLE is every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of
the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2-1)
§ 76.036 LICENSE FEE.
   Each owner or operator of a motorcycle who resides within the village shall
pay each year to the Village Clerk a tax or license fee as provided in §
71.004 of this code of ordinances, for the use of each motorcycle registered at
an address within the corporate limits and used on any public street or alley
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2-2)
§ 76.037 COMPLIANCE WITH MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Each operator of a motorcycle shall in all respects comply with the
provisions of §§
70.001 through
70.008,
70.020 through
70.025,
72.001 through
72.009 and
73.001 through
73.024 of this traffic code relating to the operation and maintenance of motor
vehicles.
   (B)   In addition, shall comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2-3) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 76.038 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Riding on motorcycles.
      (1)   Operators of and passengers on motorcycles are required to ride
astride only, and only upon the permanent regular seat or saddle.
      (2)   The operator must not permit more than one other person to ride as
a passenger and must not permit a passenger to ride unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry two people.
      (3)   A seat designed for a passenger must be equipped with permanent
handgrips, and motorcycles designed to carry two persons must also be equipped
with an adjustable footrest for the passenger.
      (4)   No passenger may ride on a motorcycle in front of the operator.
      (5)   A sidecar may be attached to a motorcycle in which additional
persons may ride.
   (B)   Passing other vehicles.
      (1)   The driver of a two-wheeled motorcycle may not pass between two
vehicles proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safety.
      (2)   The driver of a two-wheeled motorcycle is prohibited from passing
on the right side of any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
there is unobstructed pavement at least eight feet wide to the right of the
vehicle being passed.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2-4) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 76.039 RIDER AND VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Equipment for riders. Motorcycle operators and passengers must wear
protective headgear and must be protected by glasses, goggles or a transparent
shield. Such headgear and other protective equipment must be of a type approved
by the state’s Department of Public Safety. Protective headgear must bear a
permanent distinguishing mark or stamp of approval to indicate it meets minimum
standards.
   (B)   Vehicle equipment.
      (1)   Handlebars. No motorcycle may be operated with handlebars rising
more than 15 inches in height above the level of the seat.
      (2)   Brakes. Motorcycles must be equipped with a brake with two separate
means of application on at least one wheel.
      (3)   Rear view mirrors. Motorcycles must be equipped with rear view
mirrors which reflect a view for at least 200 feet.
      (4)   Lighted lamps. Every motorcycle, when used on the public ways of
the village, must, during the period from sunset to sunrise, or at any other
time when visibility is so limited as to require the use of lights for safety,
carry and exhibit one lighted lamp commonly known as a driving lamp and affixed
to the front of said motorcycle showing white light or lights of a yellow or
amber tint, visible at least 500 feet in the direction toward which such
motorcycle is proceeding. Also during such period, all motorcycles must exhibit
at least one lighted lamp mounted on the rear of said motorcycle and showing a
red light visible for at least 500 feet to the rear.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2-5) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 77: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
77.001   Right-of-way
   
77.002   Use of roadways
   
77.003   Blind pedestrians
   
77.004   Pedestrian-control signals
   
77.005   Drivers to exercise care
§ 77.001 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Where traffic-control signals are not in place or in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway or street within any marked
crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
   (B)   Whenever stop signals or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or a marked crosswalk between intersections, the pedestrian shall
have the right-of-way over drivers of vehicles. Whenever any vehicle is stopped
at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit
a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when
any vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for
the purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-1) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 77.002 USE OF ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Pedestrian crossings.
      (1)   At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the
most direct route to the opposite curbing and, when crossing at any place other
than a crosswalk, he or she shall yield the right- of-way to all vehicles upon
the roadway.
      (2)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place, except in a crosswalk.
      (3)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in
any business section.
   (B)   Standing on sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand
upon any sidewalk, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line
or curb line, if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalks by
other pedestrians.
   (C)   Pedestrians walking on roadways.
      (1)   Any person walking along and upon improved highways shall keep on
the left of the paved portion, or on the left shoulder thereof, and upon
meeting a vehicle when walking on such paved portion, shall step off to the
left.
      (2)   Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway, except at a crosswalk.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any pedestrian who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquors to be upon any street or roadway of the village.
      (4)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-2) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 77.003 BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a
cane or walking stick which is white in color or white-tipped with red, or who
is being guided by a dog, shall have the right-of-way
in crossing any street or highway, whether or not traffic on such street or
highway is controlled by traffic signals, anything in this chapter or in the
chapters relating to motor vehicles to the contrary notwithstanding.
   (B)   The driver of every vehicle approaching the place where a blind
person, so carrying such a cane or walking stick or being so guided, is
crossing a street or highway shall bring his or her vehicle to a full stop and
before proceeding shall take such precautions as may be necessary to avoid
injury to the blind person.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a blind person who
is not carrying such a cane or walking stick or who is not guided by a dog, but
the other provisions of this chapter relating to a pedestrian shall then be
applicable to such person.
   (D)   However, the failure of a blind person to so use or carry such a cane
or walking stick or be guided by a guide dog when walking on streets, highways
or sidewalks shall not be considered evidence of contributory negligence.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-3) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 77.004 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   At intersections where traffic is directed by a police officer or by a stop
and go signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway
other than with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-4) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 77.005 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway
and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or any incapacitated
person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-5) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 78: RAILROADS
Section
   
78.001   Tracks to conform with street grades
   
78.002   Storm water drainage
   
78.003   Speed restrictions
   
78.004   Obstructing railroad-highway crossings
   
78.005   Warning signs posted
 
   
78.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic at railroad crossings, see §
73.017
§ 78.001 TRACKS TO CONFORM TO STREET GRADES.
   All railroad companies and the owners or lessees of any railroad track shall
raise or lower their railroad tracks lying within village limits so as to
conform to any grade which may at any time be established by ordinance for any
street, alley or highway, and where said tracks run across or lengthwise of any
such street, alley or highway, they shall keep their tracks on a level with the
surface, and keep said streets in good order so that such tracks may be crossed
at any place in such street, alley or highway; and where they cross any street,
they shall keep the same planked between the rails.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1) Penalty, see §
78.999
§ 78.002 STORM WATER DRAINAGE.
   All railroad companies, and the owner of any railroad track, shall make and
keep open and keep in repair ditches and side drains, sewers and culverts along
and under their railroad tracks so that filthy and stagnant water cannot stand
on their grounds or right-of-way, and in such manner that the natural drainage
of the adjacent property is not impeded.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2) Penalty, see §
78.999
§ 78.003 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   No railroad corporation, through its employees or agents, shall run any
passenger train upon and along any railroad track within the village at a rate
of speed greater than 30 mph; nor shall any such corporation run any freight
car, locomotive or engines upon or along any railroad track within the village
at a speed greater than 30 mph.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3) Penalty, see §
78.999
§ 78.004 OBSTRUCTING RAILROAD-HIGHWAY CROSSINGS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a railroad corporation to permit any train,
railroad car or engine to obstruct public travel at a railroad-highway grade
crossing for a period in excess of ten minutes, except where such train,
railroad car or engine cannot be moved by reason of circumstances over which
the railroad corporation has no control.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any railroad employee to willfully or intentionally
permit any train, railroad car or engine to obstruct public travel at a
railroad-highway grade crossing for a period in excess of ten minutes, except
where such train, railroad car or engine cannot be moved by reason of
circumstances over which the railroad employee has no control. However, no
employee acting under the rules or orders of the railroad corporation or its
supervisory personnel may be prosecuted for such violations.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4) (Ord. passed 5-22-1979) Penalty, see §
78.999
§ 78.005 WARNING SIGNS POSTED.
   Every railroad corporation shall cause boards, well supported by posts or
otherwise, to be placed and constantly maintained upon each public road or
street in the village where the same is crossed by its railroad on the same
level. Said boards shall be elevated so as not to obstruct the travel, and to
be easily seen by travelers. On each side of said boards shall be painted in
capital letters, of at least the size of nine inches, the words “Railroad
Crossings” or “Look Out For The Cars”.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5) Penalty, see §
78.999
§ 78.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any railroad company which, by itself or its agents or employees,
violates or fails to observe any of the provisions of this chapter, except for
the provisions of §
78.004 of this chapter for which specific penalties are provided for violation
thereof in division (B) below, or any agent or employee of same who shall
violate or fail to observe any of the provisions of this chapter, except for
the provisions of §
78.004 of this chapter for which specific penalties are provided for violation
thereof in division (B) below, shall, for each violation or failure to observe
the same, be fined not less than $100, nor more than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6)
   (B)   Any railroad corporation violating §
78.004(A) of this chapter or any railroad employee violating §
78.004(B) of this chapter shall be fined, after conviction, as follows:
      (1)   Not less than $100, nor more than $1,000, for the first offense
after conviction;
      (2)   For a second offense after conviction, not less than $200, nor more
than $1,000; and
      (3)   For a third or subsequent offense after conviction, not less than
$500, nor more than $2,000.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4)
(Ord. passed 5-22-1979)
CHAPTER 79: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Through streets
      
II.   Yield intersections and stop streets
      
III.   Speed limits
      
IV.   Weight limits
      
V.   Dead ends
      
VI.   One-way streets and alleys
      
VII.   Turn restrictions
      
VIII.   Snow route signs
      
IX.   Slow/children playing
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The streets and parts of streets of the village designated as through
streets are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a vehicle
shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the right-of-way
to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are approaching
so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard unless
directed otherwise by a traffic officer or a traffic-control signal.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1)
   (B)   Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop and yield
right-of-way streets, all one-way streets and alleys, and all stop
intersections.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-9)
Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE II. YIELD INTERSECTIONS AND STOP STREETS.
   (A)   Yield right-of-way intersections.
      (1)   (a)   Any street designated as a yield right-of-way street and so
posted is hereby declared to be a yield right-of-way street.
         (b)   The driver of a vehicle in obedience to a yield right-of-way
sign shall reduce the speed of his or her vehicle to not more than 20 mph and
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersecting street either from the right or left or which are approaching so
closely to such intersection as to constitute a hazard; but said driver, having
so yielded, may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs.
      (2)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the
driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2)
   (B)   Stop streets. The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a
stop sign at an intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to
ordinance, at one or more entrances thereto, and shall proceed cautiously
yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the
intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard,
unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police officer on duty,
in which event the directions of the police officer shall be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3)
   (C)   Generally.
      (1)   The President of the Board/Mayor is hereby authorized to direct the
Superintendent of Public Works or any person authorized by the President to
cause a stop sign(s) or other traffic regulation sign(s) to be posted at
designated location(s) wherein the President/Mayor has determined that said
stop sign(s) or traffic regulation sign(s) is of an urgent nature to reduce
hazardous traffic conditions from the use of street, to improve traffic
conditions and pedestrian safety.
      (2)   The President/Mayor shall, within 90 days of directing the posting
of a stop sign(s) or traffic regulation sign(s), present an ordinance to the
Board of Trustees for ratification. In the event the President/Mayor fails to
present said ordinance for the posting of a stop sign(s) or traffic regulation
sign(s) for ratification and/or Board of Trustees fails to ratify the posting
of said stop sign(s) or traffic regulation sign(s), then the President/Mayor
shall immediately direct the removal of said stop sign(s) or traffic regulation
sign(s).
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4)
Street Location/Intersection Type of Stop Direction(s)
Street               Location/Intersection            Type of Stop Direction(s)
Adams                At Park and Pennsylvania         4-way        E/W/N/S
Ann Street           At Grant                         2-way        E/W
                     At Greenwood                     1-way        W
Arthur Court          
                     At Riverside                     3-way        E/W/S
Atlantic Avenue      At Parkside                      4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 146th                         1-way        N
Avalon               144th                                         N/S
                     142nd                                         N
Beachview            At 147th Street                               N/S
                     At 151st                                      W/N/S
Berg Drive           At Greenwood (2 signs)           1-way        W
                     Dolton Avenue                    1-way        N
                     144th                            1-way        E
                     145th                            1-way        N
Blackstone           146th                            3-way        E/W/S
                     151st                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     152nd                            3-way        E/W/N
                     154th                            1-way        S
Blouin Drive         At Ellis                         3-way        E/W/S
                     At University                    3-way        E/W/S
                     At Greenwood Road                1-way        W
California Avenue    At Greenwood Condos              1-way        S
                     At Lincoln Avenue                1-way        NE
Calumet Avenue       At 142nd                         1-way        S
Catalpa Lane         At Park                          2-way        W/S
                     At Kanawha                       1-way        W
Champlain Avenue     At Sibley Boulevard              2-way        S/N
                     At 149th                         4-way        N/S
Chicago              147th
                     146th                            1-way        N
Clark Street         148th                            2-way        N/S
                     149th                            4-way        N
                     At Sibley                        1-way        S
Claussen Court       Claussen                         1-way        N
Clyde Avenue         At 154th                         1-way        N
                     At 158th                         1-way        S
Cornell Avenue       At Lincoln                       1-way        S
                     At 151st                         1-way        N
                     142nd                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     143rd                            2-way        E/W
Cottage Grove        At Lincoln                       2-way        N/S
                     149th                            3-way        W/N/S
                     138th                            2-way        E/N
                     142nd                            1-way        N
                     144th                            2-way        N/S
Dante Avenue         146th                            1-way        N
                     148th                            1-way        S
                     154th                            2-way        N/S
Dante Street         153rd Street                     3-way        N/S
                     146th                            1-way        N/B
Dearborn Street      148th                            2-way        N/S
                     At Sibley                        1-way        S
Diekman Court        152nd                            2-way        N/S
                     154th                            2-way        N/S
Dillner Place        At Langley W/B at Memorial Drive 1-way        E
                     At 142nd                         1-way        N
                     At 144th                         2-way        N/S
Dobson Avenue        At 154th                         1-way        N
                     At 156th                         1-way        S
                     At Blouin Drive                  1-way        S
                     At Lincoln Avenue                1-way        N
Dolton Avenue (Road) At 142nd Street                  1-way        W
                     At Dolton Avenue                 1-way        N
                     At Lincoln Avenue                1-way        S
                     144th                            2-way        N/S
                     145th                            2-way        N/S
Dorchester Avenue    146th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     148th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     151st                            3-way        E/N/S
                     152nd                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     153rd                                         N/S
                     154th Place                      3-way        N/S/W
                     At 142nd                         1-way        N
                     At 143rd                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 144th                         4-way        E/W/N/S
Drexel Avenue        At Shepard                       2-way        E/S
                     At 154th                         1-way        N
                     At 156th                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 158th                         2-way        E/S
                     At 151st                         4-way        E/W/N/S
E. End Avenue        At 158th                         1-way        S/B
                     At Michigan City Road            1-way        S
                     At 146th                         1-way        N
Edbrooke Avenue      At 147th                         2-way        N/S/E/W
                     At 148th                         2-way        N/S
                     At Sibley                        1-way        S
                     At 142nd                         1-way        N
                     At 143rd                                      N/S
                     At 144th                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 145th                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Lincoln                       2-way        N/S
Ellis Avenue         At 154th                         1-way        N
                     At 155th                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 156th                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 157th                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 158th                         3-way        E/W/S
                     At Blouin Drive                  3-way        E/W/S
Empire Street         
Engle Place           
                     At Chicago Road                  2-way        E/W
Engle Street         At Irving                        1-way        E
                     At Park                          4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Shepard                       3-way        W/N/S
Evans Avenue         At 148th                         1-way        N
                     At Sibley                        1-way        S
Evans Court          At 148th                         1-way        S
Evans Street         At 149th                         2-way        N/S
                     At Shepherd                                   S
                     At Engle                         1-way        S
                     At Sibley                        2-way        N/S
                     At Stewart                       1-way        N
Evers Street         At 151st                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 152nd                         2-way        N/S
                     At 153rd                         4-four       E/W
                     At 154th                         1-way        S
Forest Avenue        At 138th Street                  1-way        N
                     At Lincoln Avenue                1-way        S
                     At 142nd                         2-way        N/S
                     At Engle                         1-way        N
                     At Stewart                       1-way        N
                     At Greenwood                     1-way        S
                     At Sheridan                      4-way        E/W/N/S
Grant Street         At Sibley                        2-way        N/S
                     At Stewart                                    N
                     At 151st                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 152nd                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 153rd                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 154th                         1-way        S
                     At Chicago Road                  2-way        N/E and S/E
Greenwood Road       144th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Woodlawn                      2-way        N/W and S/E
Harper Avenue        145th                            2-way        N/S
                     152nd                            3-way        E/N/S
Harvard Avenue       At 146th                         1-way        N
Hastings Drive       152nd                            2-way        N/S
                     At Meadow Lane                   1-way        E
Henry Street         At Park                          1-way        E
Indiana Avenue        
                     At 142nd                         1-way        N
                     At 143rd                                      N/S
                     At 144th                         2-way        N/S
Ingleside Avenue     At Shepard                       1-way        S
                     At 156th                         2-way        N/S
                     At 157th                         2-way        N/S
                     At 158th                         2-way        W/S
                     At 142nd                         1-way        S
                     At 144th                         3-way        E/N/S
                     On 145th                         2-way        N/S
                     At Stewart                       4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Greenwood                     2-way        N/S
Irving               At Lincoln                       1-way        N
                     At Sibley Boulevard              2-way        N/S
                     At 149th                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 151st                         3-way        E
                     At 152nd                         2-way        N/S
                     153rd                            3-way        E/N/S
                     154th                            1-way        S
Jackson              144th                            1-way        S
Jefferson Street      
Jeffrey Avenue        
Kanawha Street       At 138th                         1-way        N/S
                     At Catalpa Lane                  1-way        S
                     At Kimbark                       1-way        W
Kasten Drive         At Stony Island                  1-way        E
                     At Woodlawn                      1-way        W
                     At 142nd                         1-way        N
Kenwood Avenue       At 144th                         2-way        N/S
                     At Kasten                        1-way        S
                     142nd                            1-way        N
                     143rd                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     144th                            2-way        N/S
Kimbark Avenue       146th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     147th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     148th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Lincoln                       1-way        S
                     At Shepherd                                   N
Lakeside Avenue       
                     At 142nd                         2-way        N/S
                     At Lincoln                       1-way        S
Langley Avenue       At 148th                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 149th                         2-way        E/W
                     At Sibley Boulevard              1-way        S
                     146th                            1-way        N
Lasalle Street       148th                            3-way        E/W/S
                     Sibley                           1-way        S
Lincoln Avenue       At 138th                         4-way        E/W/N/S
Madison Avenue       At 152nd                         2-way        E/S
                     At 158th                         1-way        S
Manor Avenue         At 142nd                         1-way        S
Manor Court           
Margaret Street      At Chicago Road                  1-way        W
                     At 142nd                         1-way        N
Maryland Avenue      At 143rd                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Shepard                       4-way        S
                     At 156th                         1-way        N/S
Massachusetts Avenue  
McArthur Court       At Langley                       1-way        W
                     At Evans                         1-way        E
                     Sibley                           1-way        N
Meadow Lane          151st                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     152nd                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     154th                            1-way        S
Memorial Drive        
Merrill Avenue       154th                            1-way        N
                     146th                            1-way        N
                     147th                            2-way        N/S
Michigan Avenue      148th                            2-way        N/S
                     149th                                         N/S
                     At Sibley                        1-way        S
                     At 142nd                         1-way        N
                     At 143rd                         4-way        N/S
                     At 144th                         2-way        N/S
                     145th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     146th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
Minerva Avenue       At Greenwood                     1-way        W
                     At Lincoln                       2-way        N/S
                     At Sibley                        1-way        N
                     At 151st                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     154th                            1-way        N
                     155th                            4-way        N/S/E/W
                     156th                            1-way        S
Monroe Street        At Chicago Road                  1-way        W
Murray Avenue        At 154th                         3-way        E/W/N
                     At Lincoln Avenue                1-way        N
                     At Stewart                       1-way        N
                     At Lincoln                       1-way        N
                     At Sibley                        2-way        N/S
Oak Street           At 144th                         1-way        S
                     At 151st                         4-way        N/S/E/W
                     At 152nd                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 154th                         1-way        S
                     At 138th                         1-way        N
                     At Catalpa Lane                  2-way        W/S
                     At Monroe                        2-way        N/S
                     At Adams and Pennsylvania        4-way        E/W/N/S
Park Avenue          At Engle                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 142nd                         1-way        N
                     At 144th Place                   3-way        W/N/S
                     At 144th Street                  2-way        S/N
                     At Lincoln                       2-way        W/S
Parkside Drive       At Atlantic                      4-way        E/W/N/S
Paxton Avenue        154th                            1-way        N
                     At 142nd                         1-way        N
Pennsylvania         At Park and Adams                4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Monroe                        1-way        (S/E)
Pohlers Court         
                     At Riverside                     2-way        S/W
Princeton Avenue     At 146th                         1-way        N
                     147th                            2-way        N/S
Riverside Drive      At Atlantic                      3-way        E/W/S
                     At Wentworth                     1-way        E
                     At 144th                         3-way        E/N/S
Sanderson Street     At 145th                         3-way        W/N/S
                     At Greenwood                     2-way        W/S
                     At Lincoln                       1-way        N
                     At 145th                         2-way        N/W
                     At 146th                         1-way        W
                     Cottage Grove                    1-way        W
                     Dorchester                       1-way        E
                     Drexel                           2-way        (S/E)
Shepard Drive        Ellis                            1-way        E
                     Evans                            3-way        W/N/S
                     Kimbark                          2-way        NW/SE
                     Langley                          1-way        W
                     McArthur                         1-way        N
                     Minerva                          2-way        E/W
                     Woodlawn                         2-way        E/W
Sheridan Avenue      At Chicago Road                  1-way        W
                     At Grant                         4-way        E/W/N/S
Sibley Boulevard      
S. Woodlawn Avenue   At 14846                         2-way        S
                     At 14907                         2-way        N
                     146th                            1-way        N
State Street         147th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     148th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Sibley                           1-way        S
                     At Chicago Road                  1-way        W
Stewart Avenue       At Grant Street                               E/W
                     At Irving                        4-way        E/W/N/S
Stony Island Avenue  At 154th                         2-way        N/S
                     At Michigan City Road            1-way        N
Sunset Drive         152nd                            2-way        N/S
                     154th                            2-way        N/S
                     142nd                            1-way        N
                     143rd                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     144th                            2-way        N/S
                     145th                            4-way        N/S/E/W
                     146th                            2-way        N/S
University Avenue    At Shepard                       1-way        S
                     At Greenwood Road                1-way        S
                     151st                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     152nd                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 154th                         1-way        N
                     At 156th                         2-way        N/S
                     At Blouin and Ellis              3-way        E/W/S
Van Buren Street      
                     146th                            1-way        N
Wabash Avenue        147th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     148th                            2-way        N/S
                     At Sibley                        1-way        S
                     At Chicago Road                  2-way        E/W
Washington Street    At Lincoln Avenue                1-way        E
                     At Park                          1-way        W
Wentworth Avenue     At 148th                         3-way        N/S
                     At Sibley                        1-way        S
                     144th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     145th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
Woodlawn Avenue      146th                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At 151st                         4-way        N/S
                     152nd                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Greenwood                     1-way        (S/W)
138th Street         At Cottage Grove                 2-way        E/N
                     At Lincoln Avenue                4-way        E/W/N/S
140th Place          At Indiana Avenue                1-way        W
140th Street          
141st Place          At Indiana                       1-way        W
141st Street         At Indiana Avenue                1-way        W
142nd Place          At Indiana                       1-way        W
142nd Street         At Cottage Grove                 4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Park                          1-way        E
                     At Avalon                                     N/S
                     At Minerva                       4-way        E/W
                     At Cottage Grove                 2-way        E/W
                     At Dobson                        4-way        N/S/E/W
                     At Drexel                        4-way        E//W/N/S
                     At Ellis Avenue                               E/W
143rd Street         At Evans                         1-way        W
                     At Indiana                       1-way        W
                     At Ingleside                                  E/W
                     At Kenwood                                    N/S
                     Kimbark                          4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Maryland                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     University                       4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Woodlawn                      2-way        E/W
                     At Chicago Road                  2-way        E/W
144th Place          At Greenwood                     1-way        E
                     At Park                          3-way        W/N/S
                     At Drexel                        4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Ellis                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Greenwood                     4-way        E/W/N/S
144th Street         At Irving                        3-way        E/N/S
                     At Minerva                       4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Sanderson                     3-way        E/N/S
                     At Woodlawn                      4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Avalon                                     N/S
                     At Dobson                        2-way        E/W
                     At Ellis                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Kenwood                                    N/S
145th Street         At Minerva                       4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Murray                        3-way        E/W/N
                     At Sanderson                     3-way        W/N/S
                     At Shepard                       2-way        N/W
                     At University                    4-way        N/S/E/W
                     At Woodlawn                      4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Blackstone                    3-way        E/W/S
                     At Chicago Road                  1-way        E
                     At Dorchester                    4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Grant                         1-way        W
146th Street         At Indiana                       1-way        E
                     At Kimbark                       4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Minerva                       4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Shepard                       1-way        W
                     At Stony Island                  1-way        E
                     At Woodlawn                      4-way        E/W/N/S
147th Place          At Chicago Road                  1-way        E
                     Chicago Road                     2-way        E/W
                     Dearborn                         2-way        E/W
                     Dorchester                       2-way        E/W
                     Edbrooke                         2-way        E/W
147th Street         Indiana                          1-way        E
                     Kimbark                          4-way        E/W/N/S
                     State                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Wabash                           4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Woodlawn                         1-way        W
148th Place           
                     Chicago Road                     1-way        E
                     Dobson Avenue
                     Dorchester                       4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Indiana                          1-way        E
148th Street         Langley                          2-way        E/W
                     LaSalle                          2-way        E/W
                     Kimbark                          4-way        E/W/N/S
                     State                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Wentworth                        3-way        E
                     Woodlawn                         1-way        W
                     At Champlain                     4-way        E/W
                     At Chicago Road                  2-way        E/W
                     At Clark                         4-way        E/W
                     At Cottage Grove                 3-way        W/N/S
149th Street         At Dearborn                      4-way        N/S
                     At Evers                         2-way        E/W
                     At Indiana                       1-way        E
                     At Irving                        4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At State                         4-way        N/S/E/W
                     At Wabash                        2-way        E/W
150th Place          at Greenwood                     1-way        W
                     Beachview                        3-way        W/N/S
                     Blackstone                       4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Chicago Road                     2-way        E/W
                     Dorchester                       3-way        E/N/S
                     E. End                           4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Evers                            4-way        E/W/N/S
151st Street         Greenwood                        1-way        W
                     Irving                           3-way        N/S
                     Meadow Lane                      4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Minerva                          4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Oak Street                       4-way        N/S/E/W
                     University                       4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Woodlawn                         2-way        E/W
                     Blackstone                       3-way        E/W/S
                     Chicago Road                     2-way        E/W
                     Dante                            2-way        E/W
                     Dorchester                       4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Greenwood                        1-way        W
152nd Street         Harper                           3-way        E/N/S
                     Lincoln Avenue                   1-way        W
                     Madison                          2-way        E/S
                     Meadow Lane                      4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Oak                              4-way        E/W/N/S
                     University                       4-way        E/W/N/S
                     Woodlawn                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Chicago Road                  2-way        E/W
                     At Dante Street                  3-way        E
153rd Street         At Dorchester                                 W
                     At Evers Street                  4-way        E/W
                     At Grant                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Irving                        3-way        E/N/S
154th Place          At Dorchester                    3-way        N/S/W
154th Street         At Dante                         1-way        W
155th Place           
                     At Cottage Grove                 1-way        W
                     At Dobson                        2-way        E/W
                     At Drexel                        2-way        E/W
155th Street         At Ellis                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Ingleside Avenue              2-way        E/W
                     At Minerva                       4-way        N/S/E/W
                     At University                    2-way        E/W
156th Place          At Cottage Grove                 1-way        W
                     At Drexel                        4-way        E/W/N/S
156th Street         At Ellis                         4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Maryland Avenue               2-way        E/W
                     At University                                 EB
157th Street         Ellis                            4-way        E/W/N/S
                     At Cottage Grove                 1-way        W
                     At Drexel                        2-way        E/S
158th Street         At E. End                        2-way        E/W
                    At Ellis                         3-way        E/W/S
                     At Greenwood                     1-way        W
                     At Ingleside                     2-way        W/S
                     At Madison                       2-way        E/W
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4-1) (Ord. 91-163, passed 8-20-1991; Ord. 92-185, passed 8-
4-1992; Ord. 92-189, passed 9-1-1992; Ord. 92-192, passed 9-29-1992; Ord. 92-
198, passed 12-8-1992; Ord. 93-203, passed 3-30-1993; Ord. 93-206, passed 4-13-
1993; Ord. 93-235, passed 12-7-1993; Ord. 95-276, passed 4-5-1995; Ord. 95-287,
passed 8-1-1995; Ord. 96-299, passed 5-7-1996; Ord. 97-318, passed 4-2-1997;
Ord. 97-347, passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 98-353, passed 1-20-2998; Ord. 98-369,
passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 98-376, passed 7-6-1998; Ord. 99-114, passed 7-19-1999;
Ord. 99-115, passed 7-19-1999; Ord. 99-125, passed 10-18-1999; Ord. 00-135,
passed 1-3-2000; Ord. 00-144, passed 5-15-2000; Ord. 00-147, passed 7-3-2000;
Ord. 01-171, passed 9-17-2001; Ord. 02-183, passed 5-6-2002; Ord. 02-184,
passed 5-6-2002; Ord. 03-204, passed 3-3-2003; Ord. 03-233, passed 10-6-2003;
Ord. 04-268, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 06-335, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 06-344,
passed 5-15-2006; Ord. 06-349, passed 6-19-2006; Ord. 06-375, passed 9-18-2006;
Ord. 07-415, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 08-434, passed 5-5-2008; Ord. 09-473, passed
6-15-2009; Ord. 09-474, passed 6-15-2009; Ord. 18-016, passed 12-3-2018)
Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   Unless otherwise designated herein, the speed limit on streets within the
village shall be 30 mph.
Street Location Direction(s)
Street               Location                                      Direction(s)
Adams Street          
Ann Street           Greenwood Road to Oak Street                  E/B
Arthur Court          
Atlantic Avenue      14600 Block                                   S/B
                     14827                                         N/B
Avalon Avenue        142nd on Avalon                               S/B
                     14830                                         S/B
Beach View           152nd Street to Sibley Boulevard              N/B
Berg Drive           On N/end of Berg east of Greenwood            E/B
                     On S/end of Berg east of Greenwood            E/B
                     14340                                         N/B and S/B
                     14404
                     14439                                         N/B
Blackstone Avenue    14608                                         S/B
                     151st                                         S/B
                     152nd                                         S/B
                     At Lincoln                                    S/B
Blouin Drive         Off Ingleside                                 E/B
California Avenue    761 California                                E/B
                     908 California                                W/B
Calumet Avenue        
Catalpa Lane         At Park
                     At Kanawha
                     14933                                         N/B
Champlain Avenue     150th                                         N/B
                     152nd                                         S/B
Chappel Avenue        
Chicago Road          
                     14600                                         S/B
Clark Street         14700                                         S/B
                     14701                                         N/B
                     On Clark north of Sibley                      N/B
Claussen Court        
Clyde Avenue          
Cornell Avenue        
                     100 feet south of 138th Street                S/B
Cottage Grove Avenue 50 feet south of 142nd Street on Cottage      S/B
                     150 feet north of Lincoln on Cottage          N/B
Dante Avenue         14314                                         S/B
                     145th                                         N/B
Dearborn Street      North of Sibley                               N/B
                     151st                                         S/B
Diekman Court        152nd                                         S/B
                     153rd                                         N/B
                     154th                                         N/B
                     142nd                                         S/B
Dobson Avenue        14704                                         S/B
                     154th                                         S/B
Dolton Avenue         
                     At Kasten                                     N/B
                     14300                                         S/B
                     14643                                         N/B
                     14706                                         S/B
Dorchester Avenue    14743                                         N/B
                     152nd                                         N/B and S/B
                     153rd                                         N/B
                     154th                                         S/B
                     156th                                         S/B
                     14204                                         S/B
Drexel Avenue        154th                                         S/B
                     156th                                         S/B
                     157th                                         N/B and S/B
E. End Avenue        15137                                         N/B
                     15755                                         N/B
                     146th                                         S/B
Edbrooke Avenue      14839                                         N/B
                     14842                                         S/B
                     14933                                         N/B
                     142nd                                         S/B
                     14632                                         S/B
Ellis Avenue         146th                                         N/B
                     154th                                         S/B
                     156th                                         S/B
Empire Street         
Engle Place           
Engle Street         437                                           E/B
                     612                                           E/B
Evans Avenue         South of McArthur Court                       S/B
Evans Court           
                     14602                                         S/B
Evers Street         14642                                         N/B
                     150th                                         S/B
                     153rd                                         N/N
Forest Avenue        138th Street                                  S/B
Grant Street         At Sibley                                     N/B
                     153rd                                         N/B
                     100 feet N/W of Irving                        N/B
Greenwood Road       Both sides of Greenwood from 142nd to 158th
                     Street
Harper Avenue        152nd                                         N/B and S/B
Harvard Avenue        
                     151st                                         S/B
Hastings Drive       152nd                                         N/B
                     153rd                                         N/B and S/B
Henry Street          
Indiana Avenue       From 138th Street to Sibley Boulevard (both
                     sides of street)
Ingleside Avenue     14204                                         S/B
                     154th                                         S/B
                     14601                                         S/B
                     14750                                         S/B
                     150th                                         S/B
Irving Avenue        151st                                         N/B
                     152nd                                         N/B
                     153rd                                         N/B
                     150 feet north of Greenwood                   N/B
Jackson               
Jefferson Street      
Jeffrey Avenue       151st                                         N/B
Kanawha Street       13800                                         S/B
                     At Catalpa                                    N/B
Kasten Drive         1405                                          E/B
                     1524                                          W/B
Kenwood Avenue       14608                                         S/B
                     14743                                         N/B
                     14214                                         S/B
Kimbark Avenue       14341                                         N/B
                     14410                                         S/B
                     14606                                         S/B
                     14641                                         N/B
Lasalle Street       14737                                         N/B
                     14804                                         S/B
                     14933                                         N/B
Lakeside Avenue      At 147th                                      S/B
Lang Ley Avenue      14709                                         S/B
                     150 feet north of Lincoln                     N/B
                     14206                                         S/B
                     14331                                         N/W
                     14344                                         S/E
Lincoln Avenue       14489                                         N/B
                     14504                                         S/B
                     30 feet N/W of Cottage Grove                  N/W
                     150 feet S/E of Langley                       S/E
Madison Avenue       15755                                         N/B
Manor Avenue         At 142nd Street                               N/B
Manor Court           
Margaret Street      613                                           E/B
Maryland Avenue      14205                                         S/B
                     155th                                         S/B
Massachusetts Avenue  
Mcarthur Court        
                     150th                                         S/B
Meadow Lane          152nd                                         S/B
                     153rd                                         N/B
Michigan Avenue      146th                                         S/B
                     North of Sibley                               N/B
                     142nd                                         S/B
                     14703                                         N/B
Minerva Avenue       14732                                         S/B
                     154th                                         S/B
                     At Greenwood                                  E/B
                     At Sibley                                     S/B
Monroe Street        At Park                                       W/B
Murray Avenue        14346                                         N/B
                     14224                                         S/B
Oak Street           14335                                         N/B
                     At Sibley                                     N/B
                     153rd                                         N/B
                     138th                                         S/B
                     At Catalpa                                    N/B
Park Avenue          14014
                     144th Street                                  S/B
                     14442                                         S/B
Parkside Drive       14719                                         E/B
Paxton Avenue        154th Street to 158th Street/both sides of
                     street
Pennsylvania Avenue                                               S/B
Pohlers Court                                                     S/B
Princeton Avenue     14601                                         S/B
                     14700                                         S/B
Riverside Drive      West of Wentworth                             W/B
Sanderson Street     14314                                         S/B
                     14500                                         N/B
                     146th                                         W/B
                     14711                                         E/B
Shepard Drive        East of Evans                                 E/B
                     Between Minerva and University                W/B
                     Across from 14346 Shepard                     W/B
Sheridan Avenue       
Sibley Boulevard     From 1-94 (Cal X-Way) to Wallace Street (both E/B and W/B
                     sides of street)
State Street         14941                                         N/B
Stewart Avenue        
Stony Island Avenue  From 154th to Sibley Boulevard                N/B
                     151st                                         S/B
                     152nd                                         N/B and S/B
Sunset Drive         153rd                                         N/B
                     154th                                         S/B
                     155th                                         N/B
                     142nd                                         S/B
University Avenue    150th                                         S/B
                     154th                                         S/B
                     156th                                         S/B
Vanburen Street       
Wabash Avenue        146th                                         S/B
                     North of Sibley                               N/B
Washington Street    At Chicago Road                               W/B
Wentworth Avenue     North of 148th                                S/B
                     14845                                         N/B
                     14305                                         N/B
                     144th                                         S/B
                     14525                                         N/B
                     14614                                         S/B
Woodlawn Avenue      14709                                         N/B
                     14743                                         S/B
                     14824                                         S/B
                     150th                                         S/B
                     152nd                                         N/B
                     153rd                                         N/B
138th Street         200 feet west of Cottage                      W/B
140th Place          201 E.                                        E/B
140th Street          
141st Place          At Indiana                                    E/B
141 Street            
142nd Place          At Indiana                                    E/B
                     100 feet east of Lincoln                      E/B
142nd Street         150 feet east of Langley                      E/B
                     At langley                                    W/B
                     East of Cottage                               E/B
143rd Street         150 feet west of Cottage                      W/B
                     At Indiana                                    E/B
144th Place          At Park                                       E/B
                     306 E. (Jewel Foods)                          E/B
                     651 E.                                        E/B
144th Street         738                                           E/B
                     Between Ellis and Dobson                      E/B
                     Between Minerva and University                E/B and W/B
                     West of Woodlawn                              W/B
145th Street          
                     27 E.                                         E/B
146th Street         207 W.                                        E/B
                     1444 E.                                       E/B
147th Place           
                     505 E.                                        E/B
147th Street         East of Indiana                               E/B
                     At Chicago Road                               E/B
148th Place           
                     1225 E.                                       E/B
                     At Chicago Road                               W/B
148th Street         West of Dante                                 W/B
                     Between Edbrooke and Michigan                 E/B
                     Between State and Wabash                      E/B
                     West of Indiana                               W/B
149th Street         East of La Salle                              E/B
                     West of Indiana                               E/B
150th Place          At Greenwood                                  E/B
                     At Blackstone                                 E/B
                     West of Chicago Road                          W/B
151st Street         East of Chicago Road                          E/B
                     At Dobson                                     E/B
                     East of E. End                                E/B
                     East of Chicago Road                          E/B
152nd Street         West of Chicago Road                          W/B
                     At Greenwood                                  E/B
                     At Oak                                        E/B
153rd Street         At Chicago Road                               E/B
154th Place           
                     At Dante                                      E/B
154th Street         At Greenwood                                  E/B
                     At Harper                                     W/B
                     At Stony Island                               E/B
155th Place           
155th Street         At Cottage Grove                              E/B
                     At Ingleside                                  E/B
156th Place           
                     At Cottage Grove                              E/B
156th Street         At Ellis                                      E/B and W/B
                     At University                                 W/B
157th Street          
158th Street         East of Cottage Grove                         E/B
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE IV. WEIGHT LIMITS.
Street Location Direction(s)
Street            Location                                        Direction(s)
Avalon Avenue     14830                                           S/B
                  142nd                                           S/B
Atlantic          South of 146th                                  S/B
Berg Drive        N/end east of Greenwood Road                    S/B
                  S/end east of Greenwood Road                    N/B
Blackstone Avenue At Lincoln                                      S/B
                  151st                                           N/B
California Avenue South of Lincoln                                W/B
Champlain Avenue  150th                                           S/B
Clark Street      14600                                           S/B
                  South of Sibley                                 N/B
Cornell Avenue    15127                                           N/B
Cottage Grove     14500                                           S/B
Dante Avenue      14314                                           S/B
                  152nd                                           S/B
Dearborn Avenue   North of Sibley                                 N/B
                  151st                                           S/B
Diekman Court     153rd                                           N/B
                  154th                                           N/B
                  14704                                           S/B
Dobson Avenue     142nd                                           S/B
                  154th                                           S/B
                  14743                                           N/B
                  143rd                                           S/B
Dorchester Avenue 150th                                           S/B
                  153rd                                           N/B
                  154th                                           S/B
Drexel Avenue     14204                                           S/B
                  154th                                           S/B
E. End Avenue     15137                                           S/B
                  15755                                           N/B
Edbrooke Avenue   14933                                           N/B
                  146th                                           S/B
                  142nd                                           S/B
Ellis Avenue      146th                                           N/B
                  14632                                           S/B
                  154th                                           S/B
Evans Avenue      South of 142nd Street                           S/B
                  South of McArthur Court                         S/B
Evers Street      150th                                           S/B
                  153rd                                           N/B
Forest Avenue     138th west side of street                       N/B and S/B
Grant Street      153rd                                           N/B
Ingleside Avenue  154th                                           S/B
Irving Avenue     150th                                           S/B
Jeffery Avenue    15116                                           N/B
                  151st                                           S/B
Kanawha Avenue    138th Street/west side of street                N/B
Kenwood Avenue    14608                                           S/B
Kimbark Avenue    14214                                           S/B
                  14410                                           S/B
Lang Ley Avenue   North of Lincoln                                N/B
                  14606                                           S/B
Lasalle Street    14737                                           N/B
                  14804                                           S/B
                  14933                                           N/B
Lincoln Avenue    152nd                                           E/B
Madison Avenue    15755                                           N/B
Maryland Avenue   14205                                           S/B
Mcarthur Court    East of Langley                                 E/B
Meadow Lane       153rd                                           N/B
Michigan Avenue   146th                                           S/B
                  North of Sibley Boulevard                       N/B
                  14703                                           N/B
Minerva Avenue    At Greenwood                                    E/B
                  At Sibley                                       S/B
Oak Street        14335                                           N/B
Park Avenue       138th/west side of street                       N/B and S/B
Parkside Drive    14719                                           N/B
Princeton Avenue  14601                                           S/B
Riverside Drive   West of Wentworth                               W/B
                  Across from 14346                               W/B
Shepard Drive     14711                                           N/B
                  Between Dorchester and Kimbark Avenues (2-tons)
State Street      14941                                           N/B
Sunset Drive      153rd                                           N/B
University Avenue 142nd                                           S/B
                  150th                                           S/B
Wabash Avenue     146th                                           S/B
                  North of Sibley Boulevard                       N/B
Washington Street West of Chicago Road
Wentworth Avenue  North of 148th                                  N/B
                  14824                                           S/B
Woodlawn Avenue   150th                                           S/B
                  153rd                                           N/B
143rd Street      East of Cottage Grove                           E/B
                  West of Cottage Grove                           W/B
144th Street      318 E.                                          E/B
147th Street      East of Indiana Avenue                          W/B
148th Street      West of Indiana Avenue                          W/B
149th Street      West of Indiana Avenue                          W/B
150th Place       At Greenwood Road                               E/B
151st Street      Off Greenwood Road                              E/B and W/B
                  Dobson Avenue                                   E/B
152nd Street      Off Chicago Road                                E/B and W/B
                  At Greenwood Road                               E/B
                  Off Chicago Road                                E/B
153rd Street      Dante Avenue                                    N/B
                  Dorchester Avenue                               N/B
155th Street      Off Cottage                                     E/B
                  Off Maryland                                    E/B
156th Street      Off Cottage Grove                               E/B
                  Off University                                  W/B
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4-3) (Ord. 98-356, passed 1-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE V. DEAD ENDS.
Intersection Direction(s)
Intersection                                                  Direction(s)
Adams and Jackson                                             N/B
151st and Beachview                                           N/B
151st and Blackstone                                          E/B
151st and Cornell                                             W/B
156th Street at Cornell                                       W/B
On Cottage Grove - 25 feet south of Lincoln/dead end at 146th
Street
152nd and Dante                                               N/B
145th and Dobson                                              N/B
148th Street at Ellis                                         W/B
149th Street at Ellis                                         W/B
Engle and Arthur Court                                        S/B
Engte at Park Avenue                                          W/B
Engle and Pohlers Court                                       N/B and S/B
145th and Harper                                              N/B
146th and Harvard                                             S/B
147th and Lakeside                                            S/B
152nd and Madison                                             E/B and N/B
156th and Madison                                             N/B
157th and Madison                                             E/B
Margaret and Evers                                            E/B
156th and Maryland                                            S/B
158th and Maryland                                            N/B
Memorial Drive and Dillner Place                              E/B
157th and Merrill                                             S/B
148th Street at Minerva                                       E/B
149th Street at Minerva                                       E/B
Riverside and Princeton Avenue                                E/B
154th and Stoney Island                                       S/B
148th and University                                          N/B
146th and Van Buren Street                                    E/B
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4-5) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE VI. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance, in any direction other
than that so designated.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-5)
Street/Location Direction(s)
Street/Location                                               Direction(s)
150th and Grant (alley)                                       N/B
151st and Blackstone                                          S/B
608 East 142nd Street (rear) (Do Not Enter) 144th Street east N/B alley
of Chicago Road at alley
14614 Atlantic                                                N/B and S/B
14706 Atlantic                                                N/B and S/B
Chicago Road (east side at Sheridan)                          Alley, N/B exit
14201 Chicago Road (rear of Cavett Drug)                      W/B
Dorchester to Woodlawn Avenue                                 E/B
Greenwood at Chicago Road                                     N/B
Jackson at 144th Street                                       S/B
Kasten at Avalon                                              S/B
Kasten at Kenwood                                             S/B
Kasten at Kimbark                                             S/B
Lincoln and Grant to 142nd Street                             W/B
Parkside and Atlantic                                         N/B and S/B
14613 Princeton                                               N/B and S/B
14655 Princeton                                               N/B and S/B
Washington and Park                                           W/B
Wentworth Avenue from Sibley Boulevard to Riverside Drive     N/B
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4-6)
   (B)   Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop and yield
right-of-way streets, all one-way streets and alleys, and all stop
intersections.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-9)
(Ord. 98-355, passed 1-20-1998; Ord. 22-007, passed 11-7-2022; Ord. 23-003,
passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE VII. TURN RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to
turn left or right at any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals
exhibiting different colored lights successively one at a time, it shall be
unlawful for the operator of a motor vehicle to turn right on a red light at
any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-6)
   (B)   (1)   No right turn signs.
Street/Intersection Direction(s)
Street/Intersection    Direction(s)
Adams and Jackson      W/B
142nd and Grant Street N/B
144th and Jackson      W/B
Jefferson and Jackson  W/B
Kasten and Kimbark     N/B
Monroe and Jackson     W/B
Washington and Park    W/B
 
      (2)   No left turn signs.
 
Street/Intersection Direction(s)
142nd and Grant     N/B
Kasten and Avaton   S/B
Kasten and Kenwood  S/B
Kasten and Kimbark  S/B
144th and Jackson   E/B
14033 Park          N/B
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4-8)
   (C)   No turn on red when school children are present.
Intersection Direction(s)
Intersection                                                       Direction(s)
Intersection of 144th and Chicago Road
   Chicago Road, to proceed east (turning right) onto 144th StreN/B
   Chicago Road to proceed west (turning right) onto 144th StreeS/B
   144th Street to proceed south (turning right) onto Chicago RoE/B
   144th Street to proceed north (turning right) onto Chicago RoW/B
Intersection of 142nd and Cottage Grove
   142nd Street, to proceed south (turning right) onto Cottage  E/B
Grove
   Cottage Grove to proceed east (turning right) onto 142nd StreN/B
 
(Ord. passed 2-10-1976; Ord. passed 9-18-1979; Ord. 91-145, passed 4-3-1991)
Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE VIII. SNOW ROUTE SIGNS.
 
Street/Location                                             Direction(s)
Chicago Road from 154th to Sibley Boulevard and from Sibley N/B and S/B
Boulevard to Lincoln Avenue
Greenwood
Lincoln Avenue
Sibley Boulevard
Woodlawn Avenue from 142nd Street to Greenwood
144th Street from Greewood Road to Indiana Avenue           E/W
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4-9)
SCHEDULE IX. SLOW/CHILDREN PLAYING.
Street/Location Side/Direction
Street/Location       Side/Direction
Blackstone (15327)    East side of street
Dobson (15635)
Evers (14843)         N/B
Evers at Steward      S/B
Grant at Sibley
Grant at 149th Street N/B
Harper (15340)        East side of street by alley
Ingleside (14213)
1524 E. 146th Street  W/B
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4-10)
CHAPTER 80: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
      
II.   Handicapped signs
      
III.   Time limit parking
      
IV.   Diagonal parking
      
V.   Fire lanes
      
VI.   Parking during and after snowfall
      
VII.   Residential parking permit areas
      
VIII.   Parking meter zones
      
IX.   Limited load streets
      
X.   School bus loading/unloading zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   The Department of Streets and Alleys of the village or the Highway
Department of the county or state is hereby authorized and directed to place
and maintain appropriate signs at proper locations on such public ways on which
the parking of vehicles is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7-1)
Street/Location Direction(s)/Side(s)
Street/Location                                        Direction(s)/Side(s)
Avalon between Sibley Boulevard on the south and       East side
Lincoln Avenue on the north
Champlain (150th to 152nd)                             N/B, east side of street
Cottage Grove and 138th to Lincoln                     N/B and S/B
Chicago Road at 142nd at mall entrance                 S/B, west side of street
Cottage Grove (Sibley at 154th Street)                 N/B and S/B
Dorchester (151st to Sibley)                           N/B yellow curb
152nd to 151st                                         N/B
Dorchester to Woodlawn Avenue                          No parking both sides
Engle (west of Park)                                   E/B
Evers (147th to 146th)                                 N/B
Forest (13854 to corner)                               S/B
Grant from 147th Street to 146th Street                N/B, east side
Greenwood Road from Chicago Road to 158th Street:
   (4) No Parking signs; (2) north of 154th Street -N/B and 1 S/B
   (2) south of 154th Street - 1                    N/B and 1 S/B
Greenwood (142nd to Chicago Road) east side of street
(Fire Lane/Loading Zone)
Irving from Engle to Steward (west side of street)     S/B
Park Avenue (west side) 140th to 142nd                 N/B
Sibley Boulevard from Beachview Terrace to 1-94, E/
B and I-94 W/B on Sibley Boulevard to Wallace Street
Sibley Boulevard from I-94 on the east and the village
limits
Stewart (Irving to Chicago Road)                       W/B
Stewart from Stewart to Grant                          W/B, north side
Sunset (154th) to 15444 Sunset (west side of street)
Woodlawn (151st to Sibley)                             N/B
138th Street - Indiana Avenue to Lincoln Avenue (south South side of street
side of street)
142nd Street - Greenwood Road to I-94 Cal X-way        Both sides of street E/W
144th Place at Chicago Road (15 minute parking)        E/B to alley
144th Street on the north side from 304 E. 144th
Street west to Indiana Avenue
148th Street from Chicago Road to Beachview Terrace
north side of 148th Street
152nd Street between Chicago Road and Beachview        North side
Terrace
154th Street (Irving to Cottage Grove)                 W/B
154th Street - Cottage Grove to Merrill Street         E/B
154th and Jeffrey to Greenwood Road                    W/B
158th Street (Drexel to Cottage Grove)                 E/B and W/B
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4-4)
(Ord. 92-177, passed 4-28-1992; Ord. 97-344, passed 9-22-1997; Ord. 98-368,
passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 03-220, passed 5-19-2003; Ord. 04-244, passed 4-5-2004;
Ord. 04-265, passed 7-19-2004) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE II. HANDICAPPED SIGNS.
Street/Location Direction(s)/Side(s)
Street/Location                               Direction(s)/Side(s)
Cottage Grove                                 N/B and S/B
Cottage Grove and Shepard Drive (Caution Deaf
Child)
Shepard Drive and Minerva                     North side of street on Shepard
146th Street at Lakeside (Child)              E/B
437 Engle (Watch for)
526 E. 144th Place
626 Margaret
738 McArthur Court
738 McArthur
1134 Ever Street
1440 E. 156th Street
13838 Park Avenue
14200 Ingleside (Deaf Child Playing)
14208 Woodlawn Avenue
14209 Drexel Avenue
14209 Maryland Avenue
14211 Avalon
14214 Avalon Street
14215 Minerva Avenue
14220 Drexel Avenue
14225 S. Drexel
14227 Kimbark
14228 Kenwood Avenue
14229 Kenwood
14231 Kimbark
14236 Kenwood Avenue
14238 Drexel Avenue
14245 Drexel Avenue
14248 Kimbark Avenue
14261 Pennsylvania Avenue
14309 S. Ingleside
14314 Ellis
14315 Kenwood Avenue
14315 Kimbark Avenue
14320 Minerva Avenue
14330 Kenwood
14335 Avalon Avenue
14336 Dobson
14336 Ingleside
14340 Dobson Avenue
14347 Lincoln Avenue
14401 Woodlawn Avenue
14408 Dobson Avenue
14414 Minerva Avenue
14426 Dobson Avenue
14434 Dorchester
14437 Woodlawn
14504 University
14509 Ellis
14510 Dobson Avenue
14510 Ellis Avenue
14514 Dobson
14540 Cottage Grove (Caution Deaf Child)
14612 S. Michigan
14612 Beachview (Child)                       S/B
14619 S. LaSalle
14621 Avalon Street
14621 Avalon
14622 S. Michigan
14626 Memorial Drive (Child)
14632 Michigan Avenue
14638 Evers
14707 LaSalle
14709 Wabash
14735 Wabash                                  N/B
14743 S. Kenwood
14751 Oak
14756 Langley                                 S/B
14803 Evers
14809 Michigan
14819 Wabash Avenue
14822 Champlain Avenue
14823 Champlain
14823 Dobson
14826 Grant (Parking)
14827 Oak Street
14833 Evers
14856 Sheperd
14905 Irving
14912 Langley
14917 Champlain Avenue
14918 Oak Street
14928 Oak Street
14931 Grant Street
15014 Grant Street
15015 Minerva Avenue
15022 Minerva Avenue
15022 Minerva Avenue
15027 Minerva Avenue
15036 Grant
15037 Minerva Avenue
15045 Dobson
15112 Irving Avenue
15120 Irving
15123 Oak Street
15135 Evers (Blind Child)                     N/B
15240 Grant Street
15304 Grant
15306 Evers Street
15319 Dorchester Avenue
15325 Evers Street
15325 Grant Street
15421 Drexel Avenue
15442 Minerva Avenue
15500 Minerva Avenue
15512 Dorchester
15543 Minerva (Handicap sign)
15547 Maryland
15610 University Avenue (Deaf Child)
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4-7) (Ord. 00-140, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 03-232, passed 10-
6-2003; Ord. 04-242, passed 4-5-2004; Ord. 04-243, passed 4-5-2004; Ord. 04-
245, passed 4-5-2004; Ord. 04-252, passed 5-3-2004; Ord. 04-270, passed 9-20-
2004; Ord. 05-300, passed 8-15-2005; Ord. 05-308, passed 10-17-2005; Ord. 05-
309, passed 10-17-2005; Ord. 05-311, passed 11-7-2005; Ord. 05-313, passed 11-
7-2005; Ord. 05-314, passed 11-7-2005; Ord. 06-336, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 06-
337, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 07-413, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 07-414, passed 9-4-
2007; Ord. 07-427, passed 12-17-2007; Ord. 08-431, passed 4-7-2008; Ord. 08-
447, passed 9-15-2008; Ord. 08-448, passed 10-6-2008; Ord. 08-449, passed 10-6-
2008; Ord. 08-456, passed 11-3-2008; Ord. 08-457, passed 11-17-2008; Ord. 09-
463, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 09-465, passed 3-2-2009; Ord. 09-469, passed 5-18-
2009; Ord. 09-470, passed 6-1-2009; Ord. 09-490, passed 11-16-2009; Ord. 09-
491, passed 11-16-2009; Ord. 10-494, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 10-496, passed 4-
19-2010; Ord. 10-498, passed 5-3-2010; Ord. 10-507, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 10-
516, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 11-533, passed 5-2-2011; Ord. 11-539, passed 10-3-
2011; Ord. 12-554, passed 3-19-2012; Ord. 12-555, passed 4-2-2012; Ord. 12-556,
passed 4-2-2012; Ord. 12-564, passed 7-16-2012; Ord. 12-574, passed 9-17-2012;
Ord. 12-575, passed 9-17-2012; Ord. 12-576, passed 9-17-2012; Ord. 12-577,
passed 9-17-2012; Ord. 12-579, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 12-780, passed 11-5-
2012; Ord. 13-018, passed 8-19-2013; Ord. 14-018, passed 6-16-2014; Ord. 14-
019, passed 6-16-2014; Ord. 14-020, passed 6-16-2014; Ord. 14-021, passed 6-16-
2014; Ord. 14-028, passed 11-3-2014; Ord. 14-029, passed 11-3-2014; Ord. 15-
028, passed 7-6-2015; Ord. 15-033, passed 8-3-2015; Ord. 16-001, passed 1-4-
2016; Ord. 16-021, passed 9-6-2016; Ord. 16-022, passed 10-3-2016; Ord. 17-001,
passed 1-3-2017; Ord. 17-002, passed 2-6-2017; Ord. 17-009, passed 4-17-2017;
Ord. 17-032, passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 17-043, passed 11-6-2017; Ord. 18-006,
passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 18-017, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 19-016, passed 7-15-2019;
Ord. 20-001, passed 1-6-2020) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE III. TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   (A)   Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle for a longer consecutive period of time than that designated between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. in any area designated as a limited
parking area and so marked:
 
Time Limit Location/Area
2 hours    On the east and west sides of Chicago Road from Sheridan Street to
           Lincoln Avenue
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a longer consecutive
period of time than that designated at any time or on any day of the week in
any of the following areas designated as limited parking areas and so marked:
Time Limit Location/Area
Time    Location/Area
Limit
        On the north side of Lincoln Avenue from the west property line of 14069
        Lincoln Avenue to extend 160 ft. west to the west property line of 14057 Lincoln
        Avenue
        On Lincoln Avenue, beginning 84 ft. from the intersection of the Indiana Belt
15      Harbor Railroad right-of-way, southeast to 131 ft. from the intersection on the
minutes north side of said Lincoln Avenue
        On Lincoln Avenue, beginning 235 ft. from the intersection of the Indiana Belt
        Harbor Railroad right-of-way, southeast to 400 ft. from the intersection on the
        north side of said Lincoln Avenue
        From 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., on the south side of 144th Place from the
        intersection of Chicago Road 125 ft. east to the first public alley
        On the south side of Lincoln Avenue from 140th Street to extend to a point 600
        ft. east on Lincoln Avenue
        On the north side of Stewart Avenue 125 ft. east of Chicago Road
        Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon as follows:
           On both sides of Atlantic Avenue for a distance of 500 ft. south of 146th
        Street
           On both sides of Harvard Avenue for a distance of 300 ft. south of 146th
        Street
           On both sides of Parkside Drive for a distance of 100 ft. east of Atlantic
        Avenue
           On both sides of Princeton Avenue for a distance of 300 ft. south of 146th
        Street
2 hours    On the south side of 146th Street from Atlantic Avenue to the Illinois Central
        tracks
           On the south side of 146th Street from the west property line of Roosevelt
        School to Atlantic Avenue
        Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. as follows:
           On the north side of Lincoln Avenue from Chicago Street to the north boundary
        of Lincoln School
           On the south side of Lincoln Avenue from Chicago Street to Grant Street
        Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
           On the west side of Avalon between Lincoln Avenue on the north and Sibley
        Boulevard on the south
           On the west side of Lincoln Avenue on the north and Sibley Boulevard on the
        south
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7-2) (Ord. passed 3-6-1973; Ord. passed 7-3-1973; Ord.
passed 3-5-1974; Ord. passed 4-9-1974; Ord. passed 7-16-1974; Ord. passed 8-20-
1974; Ord. passed 1-8-1975; Ord. passed 3-25-1975; Ord. passed 10-3-1978; Ord.
passed 11-24-1981; Ord. 92-177, passed 4-28-1992) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE IV. DIAGONAL PARKING.
   There shall be diagonal parking only as follows:
 
Location/Area                            Specific Provisions
On the west side of Grant Street from    For periods not to exceed 15 minutes
Lincoln Avenue on the north to 142nd     each
Street on the south
On the north side of Engle Street from
Park Avenue to a point extending 125 ft.  
west of Park Avenue
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7-3) (Ord. passed 9-19-1972; Ord. passed 7-17-1973) Penalty,
see §
70.999
SCHEDULE V. FIRE LANES.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle shall not at any time park such vehicle or
otherwise obstruct the following areas devoted to public use within the village
and designated as fire lanes:
      (1)   The north side of the Ramada Inn to extend 220 feet east from the
most westerly corner of the building;
      (2)   The north side of the Ramada Inn (main entrance) to extend 126 feet
north;
      (3)   That part of the following described property: Lots 1 to 69, both
inclusive, and Lots 146 to 149, both inclusive, also that part of vacated
Blackstone Avenue, south of the north line of Lot 45 extended east, and north
of the south line of Lot 57 extended east, also that part of 156th Street east
of the west line of Lot 21 extended south, all in Henning E. Johnson’s Second
Subdivision Addition to Meadow Lane Subdivision, being a subdivision in the
northeast 1/4 of the northeast 1/4 of Section 14, Township 36 North, Range 14
East of the Third Principal Meridian according to the plat recorded 5-1-1958 as
Document No. 17195214 (except the north eight feet of said Lots 1, 2, 38, 39,
43, 44 and 45 and the north eight feet of vacated Blackstone Avenue), all in
Cook County, Illinois;
      (4)   The south side of the Jewel-Osco located at 306 E. 144th Street,
from the east corner of the building to the west corner of the building;
      (5)   The west side of the Almar Plaza complex, from the most northerly
corner of the north building to the most southerly corner of the south
building;
      (6)   The south side of the Wiseway Store complex, from the east corner
of the building to the west corner of the building;
      (7)   The south side of the K-Mart Store complex, from the east corner of
the building to the west corner of the building;
      (8)   The part of the village’s municipal parking lot located on the
southwest corner of 142nd Street and Chicago Road, described as follows: a
strip of land 30 feet wide beginning at the east line of the Value Village Mall
Building and 142nd Street, south to the Value Village Mall Building, then east
to Chicago Road;
      (9)   The part of the following described property as shown on the plat
as Exhibit A: the north 420.89 feet of Lot 4 together with the south 220.89
feet of the north 420.89 feet of Lot 5 (as measured on the west line of
aforesaid Lot 4) in Diekman’s Subdivision of the west 1/4 of the northeast 1/
4 of the southeast 1/4 of Section 11 and the west 1/4 of the southeast 1/4 of
Section 11 (except six acres in square form in the northwest corner of said
west 1/4 of the southeast 1/4 of Section 11) and also the northeast 1/4 of
Section 14 (except a triangular piece of land in the southeast 1/4 of the
northeast 1/4 lying southerly of the P.C. and ST. L.R.R. containing 95/100
acres), all being in Township 36 North, Range 14 East, of the Third Principal
Meridian, also that part of the northwest 1/4 of the southeast 1/4 of said
Section 14 lying north of the Calumet River, according to the plat thereof
recorded 5-2-1896 as Document No. 2381952; except the north 33 feet used for
Sibley Boulevard, the west 25 feet of aforesaid Lot 4 dedicated for Dorchester
Avenue and the east two feet of aforesaid Lot 5 dedicated for Dante Avenue
(part of the south line of the aforesaid south 220.89 feet of the north 420.89
feet of Lot 5 coincides with the north face of a brick building), in Cook
County, Illinois; and
      (10)   The south side of the Menard’s located at 14975 Lincoln from the
east corner of the building to the west corner of the building.
   (B)   A diagram showing said fire lane and identified as Exhibit A is
attached to an ordinance adopted by the village 8-7-1984. Said ordinance and
Exhibit A shall be and remain on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7-4) (Ord. passed 10-2-1973; Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord.
passed 10-23-1979; Ord. passed 9-22-1981; Ord. passed 8-7-1984; Ord. 96-302,
passed 6-18-1996) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE VI. PARKING DURING AND AFTER SNOWFALL.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the following streets during or
after a snowfall of one inch or more until after such street has been cleared
of snow:
Street Location
Street                            Location
Chicago Street                    Between Lincoln Avenue on the north and
                                  154th Street on the south
Cottage Grove Avenue              Between Sibley Boulevard on the north to
                                  the south limits of the village
Lincoln Avenue                    Between 138th Street on the northwest and
                                  Sibley Boulevard on the southeast
                                  From its intersection with Lincoln Avenue
                                  on the north to the intersection of 142nd
Park Avenue                       Street on the south
                                  From its intersection with Pennsylvania
                                  Avenue on the north to the intersection
                                  of 144th Street on the south
Woodlawn Avenue                   Between 142nd Street on the north and
                                  Greenwood Road on the south
142nd Street and Dolton Avenue    Between Indiana Avenue on the west and
                                  the Calumet Expressway on the east
154th Street                      Between Chicago Street on the west to the
                                  Calumet Expressway on the east
                                  All vehicles shall park on the east or
                                  north side of the streets until the snow
All other streets and ways in the has been removed from the opposite sides
village                           of said streets, at which time said
                                  vehicles shall be moved to such opposite
                                  sides
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7-5) (Ord. passed 1-13-1981; Ord. passed 3-16-1982) Penalty,
see §
70.999
SCHEDULE VII. RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT AREAS.
   The following streets in the village shall be designated as residential
parking permit areas:
Street Location Side(s)
Street                         Location                                Side(s)
Dante Avenue                   Between 152nd Street on the north and   East
                               154th Street on the south
Dante Avenue                   Between 152nd Street on the north and   West
                               154th Street on the south
Blackstone Avenue, as extended Between 152nd Street on the north and   East
                               154th Street on the south
Blackstone Avenue, as extended Between 152nd Street on the north and   West
                               154th Street on the south
Dorchester Avenue              Between 152nd Street on the north and   East
                               154th Street on the south
Dorchester Avenue              Between 152nd Street on the north and   West
                               154th Street on the south
Evers                          From 146th Street to 147th Street, from West
                               5:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
 
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7-6) (Ord. passed 11-6-1979; Ord. passed 11-27-1979; Ord.
91-162, passed 7-9-1991)
SCHEDULE VIII. PARKING METER ZONES.
   The following zones in the village are established for parking meters: the
business and commercial districts located on Chicago Street and at such other
locations as the President and Board of Trustees may hereafter designate by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7-7)
SCHEDULE IX. LIMITED LOAD STREETS.
   Whenever the weight of vehicles permitted on a street is limited by
ordinance and signs indicating such limitations are posted, it shall be
unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except
for the purpose of making delivery or picking up a load, in which case such
vehicle may be driven on such street for not more than the minimum distance
necessary for the purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-8) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE X. SCHOOL BUS LOADING/UNLOADING ZONES.
 
Street Location
Avalon East side, between Sibley Boulevard on the south and Lincoln Avenue on
       the north
 
(Ord. 92-177, passed 4-28-1992)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   AIR AND WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   PARADES AND OPEN AIR MEETINGS
      
94.   PUBLIC LIBRARY
      
95.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
96.   SECURITY AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
      
97.   LEAD-BEARING SUBSTANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Prohibited behavior
   
90.003   Control of animals
   
90.004   Animal bites
   
90.005   Dangerous or vicious animals; additional requirements
   
90.006   Impoundment and redemption
   
90.007   Dog licensing
   
90.008   Rabies inoculation
   
90.009   Animals in heat
   
90.010   Diseased animals
   
90.011   Dead animals
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.025   Purpose
   
90.026   Definitions
   
90.027   Notice of dangerous dog declaration
   
90.028   Requirements for keeping a dangerous dog
   
90.029   Notice of impoundment or destruction
   
90.030   Hearing on impoundment or destruction
   
90.031   Exemptions
 
   
90.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animal carcases a nuisance, see §
95.016
   Animals being ridden or driven on a right-of-way, see §
70.004
   Animals in parades, see
Ch. 93
   Dogs guiding blind pedestrians, see §
77.003
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any living creature, domestic or wild, other than humans, plants,
coral or fungi. ANIMAL includes fowl, fish and reptiles.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. An employee or agent of the village, designated by
the President or Chief of Police to administer and enforce the licensing,
inspection and enforcement requirements contained within this subchapter.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of animal diseases and
injuries.
   ANIMAL NUISANCE. Any nuisance arising out of the keeping, maintaining or
owning of or failure to exercise sufficient control of an animal.
   AT HEEL. A dog is directly behind or next to a person and obedient to that
person’s command.
   AT LARGE. An animal is off the premises of the owner, and not on a leash or
otherwise under the immediate control of a person physically capable of
restraining the animal.
   AUTHORIZED PERSON. A member of the Village of Broadview Police Department, a
member of Cook County Animal Control or any other person acting under the
supervision of either agency, including any contractors retained by the
village.
   BITE. Seizure of a person or other domestic animal with the jaws or teeth of
any animal capable of transmitting rabies so that the person so seized has been
wounded or pierced and further includes contact of the saliva of such animal
with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   CAT. Any member of the family Felidae.
   COMPANION ANIMAL. Any animal that is commonly considered to be or is
considered by the owner to be a pet and excludes any animal that is otherwise
prohibited by law.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or her
agent, to an escape- proof building, house or other enclosure away from other
animals and the public.
   CONFINEMENT OF DOGS. Any person owning, harboring or controlling a male or
female dog whether vaccinated or unvaccinated, licensed or unlicensed,
sterilized or unsterilized, shall always keep such animal from running at large
by either:
      (1)   Securely confining such animal within an adequate fence or
enclosure, or within a house, garage or other building; or
      (2)   Accompanying the animal on a leash.
   CRUELTY. Any act of omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering
or death of an animal is caused or permitted, including failure to provide
proper drink, air, space, shelter or protection from the elements; a sanitary
and safe living environment, veterinary care or nutritious food in sufficient
quantity. In the case of activities where physical pain is necessarily caused
such as medical and scientific research, food processing, customary and normal
veterinary and agricultural husbandry practices, pest elimination and animal
training and hunting, CRUELTY shall mean a failure to employ the most humane
method reasonably available.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog anywhere other than upon the property of the owner or
custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed or unattended by its owners or
custodian that behaves in such a manner that a reasonable person would believe
poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical injury or
death to a person or companion animal;
      (2)   A dog that, without justification, bites a person or other
domesticated animal and does not cause serious physical injury; or
      (3)   Any animal owned, harbored, trained or used for fighting against
another animal or person.
   DISEASED ANIMAL. Any animal affected with a disease contagious or infectious
to both humans and animals.
   DISPOSITION. Adoption, quarantine, voluntary or involuntary custodianship,
or placement, or euthanasia humanely administered to an animal. DISPOSITION
includes placement or sale of an animal to the general public or removal of an
animal from any pet shop to any other location.
   DOG. Any member of the family Canidae.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Includes dogs, cats, domesticated sheep, horses, cattle,
goats, swine, fowl, ducks, geese, turkeys, confined domestic hares and rabbits,
pheasants and other birds and animals raised and/or maintained in confinement.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures that may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of the vicious dog within
the ENCLOSURE. The ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the ENCLOSURE. If the ENCLOSURE is a room within a
residence, it cannot have direct ingress from or egress to the outdoors unless
it leads directly to an enclosed pen and the door must be locked. A vicious dog
may be allowed to move about freely within the entire residence if it is
muzzled at all times.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any live monkey, alligator, crocodile, cayman, raccoon,
skunk, fox, bear, sea mammal, poisonous snake, member of the feline species
other than domestic cat, member of the canine species other than domestic dog,
or any other animal that would require a standard of care and control greater
than that required for customary household pets sold by commercial pet shops or
domestic farm animals.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that:
      (1)   Is born in the wild or is the offspring of an owned feral cat and
is not socialized;
      (2)   Is a formerly owned cat that has been abandoned and is no longer
socialized; or
      (3)   Lives on a farm.
   FOWL. Includes chickens, geese, ducks and other poultry.
   GUARD OR ATTACK DOG. A dog trained to attack on command or to protect
persons or property, and who will cease to attack upon command.
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into the custody of the public animal control facility in
the city, town or county where the animal is found.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine as
document by the a licensed veterinarian and shall be subject to approved by the
Police Department.
   INTACT ANIMAL. An animal that has not been spayed or neutered.
   KEEPER. Any person, firm or corporation who shall harbor, suffer or permit
any animal to remain at or about his or her house, store or other premises in
the village.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling dogs or cats.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, nylon strap or chain which shall be securely
fastened to the collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of
sufficient strength to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he or
she engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft materials or of metal, designed
to fasten over the mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from biting any
person or other animal.
   OWNER. Any person having temporary or permanent custody of, sheltering or
having charge of, harboring, exercising control over or having property rights
to any animal covered by this subchapter. An animal shall be deemed to be
harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three or more consecutive days.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the meaning ascribed to it in § 2-13 of the Criminal Code
of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/2-13 as now or hereafter amended.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society, association
or other legal entity, any public or private institution, the State of
Illinois, municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state or any
other business unit.
   PHYSICAL INJURY. The impairment of physical condition.
   POLICE ANIMAL. An animal owned or used by a law enforcement department or
agency in the course of the department or agency’s work.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that is unsupervised and found running at
large with three or more other dogs.
   POUND or ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY. May be used interchangeably and mean any
facility approved and licensed by the state’s Department of Agriculture or
otherwise permitted to operate by law as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless,
abandoned or unwanted dogs or other animals and as may be approved by the
Police Chief for sheltering abandoned and/or unwanted animals.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any animal that unreasonably annoys humans,
endangers the life or health of persons or other animals or substantially
interferes with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment
of life or property. A NUISANCE ANIMAL shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Any animal that is found running at large unattended;
      (2)   Any dog or cat in any section of a park or public hall, restaurant,
coffee shop, ice cream parlor, office, store, grocery, meat market, bakery or
any store or shop for the sale of food, except shops for the sale of animal
pets or upon any school premises or public playgrounds;
      (3)   Any animal that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on any
property other than that of its owner;
      (4)   Any animal that makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited
to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other utterances
causing unreasonable annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (5)   Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive
odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (6)   Any animal in heat that is not confined so as to prevent attraction
or contact with other animals;
      (7)   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that
without provocation, molests, attacks or otherwise interferes with the freedom
of movement of persons in a public right-of-way;
      (8)   Any animal that chases motor vehicles in a public right-of-way;
      (9)   Any animal that attacks domestic animals;
      (10)   Any animal that causes unsanitary conditions enclosures or
surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (11)   Any animal that is offensive or dangerous to the public health,
safety or welfare by virtue of the number of animals maintained at a single
residence or the inadequacy of the facilities; and
      (12)   Any animal used in organized fighting to determine its strength or
skill in combat against another animal.
   REGISTRATION. A printed form prescribed by the Department for the purpose of
recording pertinent information as required by the Department under this Act.
   RESTRAINT. An animal under restraint within the meaning of this subchapter
if it is on the owner’s or keeper’s premises, or on a stout leash not more than
eight feet in length.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any dog that is not controlled by a leash or in a fenced
yard or enclosure. All dogs on public sidewalks, parkways, streets and other
public property must be controlled by a leash or the dog(s) shall be considered
RUNNING AT LARGE.
   SECURE CONFINEMENT. Securing the dog in an area from which the dog cannot
escape based on the size and breed of the dog, while providing for the humane
care of the animal while in confinement. Any dogs confined within a fenced yard
must have an adequate space for exercise based on the size of the dog. Dogs
shall not be chained, tied, fastened or otherwise tethered to dog houses,
trees, fences or other stationary objects as a means of CONFINEMENT to property
unless otherwise provided herein. Persons who utilize “invisible fencing” to
contain any domestic animal must display prominently on their property
immediately adjacent to the public right-of-way a sign which indicates that any
domestic animal located thereon is contained by way of “invisible fencing”.
Invisible fencing installed after the effective date of this subchapter must
be, at all times, able to confine the domestic animal within the boundaries of
the owner’s property.
   STRAY ANIMAL. Any animal running at large in the public way or on private
property other than that of the owner or keeper of such animal.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes
serious physical injury or death or any individual dog that has been found to
be a “dangerous dog” on three separate occasions.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal that has not been domesticated including, but not
limited to, boa constrictors, poisonous snakes or other poisonous animals or
reptiles.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 90.002 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Inhumanely beat, underfeed, overload, abandon or to cruelly treat any
animal;
   (B)   Fail to provide any animal with proper shelter, protection from
weather or veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering;
   (C)   Own, keep, harbor or maintain within the village any breed of fowl,
including, but not limited to, any that are or will be used in the pursuit of
and staging of cockfighting on any premises;
   (D)   Promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct or carry on any animal fight of
a similar nature, nor any simulated version of same that involves baiting or
inciting an animal toward intent to fight;
   (E)   Keep animals in violation of the state’s Humane Care for Animals Act,
510 ILCS 70/1 et seq., the state’s Animal Welfare Act, 225 ILCS 605/1 et seq.,
and the state’s Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.;
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to own, harbor or permit at large any
exotic or wild fowl;
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep more than three dogs and/
or cats within the village; except that, a litter of pups or kittens may be
kept for a period of time not exceeding four months from birth;
   (H)   Intentionally strike any animal, including dogs, cats, Canadian geese,
ducks or other wildlife with a motor vehicle. Dogs, cats, Canadian geese,
ducks, and other wildlife shall have the right of way when crossing streets
within the village. Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes
an animal, shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible, or
shall immediately report such injury to the animal owner, if known; or to the
appropriate law enforcement agency; or to the local humane society;
   (I)   Torment, shoot at with slingshots, BB or pellet type guns or other
firearms, pelt with rocks or otherwise disturb any animals; provided, however,
this provision shall not prohibit any method of nuisance wildlife mitigation
which has been approved by the Police Chief, or his or her designee, and which,
if and when required, has been authorized by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources;
   (J)   Poison or cause to be poisoned any domesticated animal. The only
exception will be by written permit from the state’s Department of Agriculture
for the purpose of controlling diseases transmissible to humans or other
animals and only when all other methods and means have been exhausted. Any
drugs used for euthanasia shall be humane and shall be by or under the
direction of a licensed veterinarian;
   (K)   Take the nest or eggs or young of any bird that is protected by
federal or state law;
   (L)   Keep or permit to be kept or display for exhibition purposes any wild
animal contrary to federal, state and local laws or regulations;
   (M)   Leave any animal unattended in a motor vehicle or enclosed trailer
when the outside temperature exceeds 86°F (30°C) or contain any animal in such
manner that said animal does not have proper air circulation while confined in
a motor vehicle, trailer, kennel, doghouse or any type of container or
structure in which an animal may be confined;
   (N)   Own any animal which is known to be infected with any disease
transmissible to other animals or man, including severe parasitism, unless such
animal shall be confined in such a manner as not to expose other animals or
humans; and
   (O)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, keep, maintain or have in
his or her possession or control within the village any poisonous reptile or
any dangerous or carnivorous wild animal or vicious or dangerous domesticated
animal, including, but not limited to, baboons, chimpanzees, gorillas,
orangutans, bears, cheetahs, lions, tigers, alligators or crocodiles of a
length more than 12 inches, snakes, coyotes, hyenas, jaguars, leopards, lynxes,
ocelots, margays, raccoons or wolves. This section shall not apply to any duly
licensed circus or animal exposition.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.003 CONTROL OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For the owner or any person who has in his or her custody or
control, any dog, cat or other animal to enter upon the premises of another
within the village without the consent of the owners;
      (2)   To permit any animal, whether licensed or not, to enter any public
body of water, pond, fountain or stream;
      (3)   To permit any animal to enter any place where food is stored,
prepared, served or sold to the public, or any public building or hall;
provided, however, that, this section shall not apply to any visually impaired
or hearing-impaired person using a trained guide dog, to veterinary offices or
hospitals or to animal shows or exhibitions;
      (4)   To permit any animal to run uncontrolled or trespass on private or
public property;
      (5)   To permit any animal to damage or destroy any property;
      (6)   To permit any dog to chase, run after or jump at vehicles using the
public thoroughfares;
      (7)   To allow any places where any animal is or may be kept to become
unclean or unsanitary or become offensive to those residing in the vicinity;
      (8)   To harbor or keep any live horse, cattle, swine, sheep or goat or
to raise any chickens, or fowl anywhere in the village;
      (9)   For any person, other than a licensed kennel, pet shop or shelter
operator, to keep or harbor more than two cats over the age of six months. The
keeping of more than two cats over the age of six months is declared to be a
public nuisance and is declared to be detrimental to the public health, safety
and welfare;
      (10)   To keep on the premises more than three dogs or any combination
thereof over four months of age, or until the dog is weaned from its mother,
whichever comes first, or more than two such dogs boarded for compensation or
kept for sale, with the exception of regularly established and zoned veterinary
hospitals, pet shops, pounds or shelters;
      (11)   With regard to excrement removal:
         (a)   For any person to cause or permit a dog to be on any property,
public or private, not owned or possessed by such person unless such person has
in his or her immediate possession a device for the removal of excrement and a
depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon
property owned or possessed by such person; and
         (b)   For any person in control of, causing or permitting any dog to
be on any property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person to
fail to remove excrement left by such dog to a proper receptacle located on
property owned or possessed by such person.
      (12)   To fail to report an animal bite;
      (13)   To keep, harbor or maintain any animal which may endanger the
safety of persons or property. This includes animals other than commonly
recognized domestic pets which may harm or injure humans or other animals by
injection of toxins, by constriction or suffocation, or by vicious biting,
scratching or mauling. It is no defense to a violation of this division (A)(13)
that the keeper of such animal prohibited herein has attempted to domesticate
such animal. Exceptions to this division (A)(13) are animals displayed or
harbored in a properly licensed and duly regulated zoo, carnival or circus;
      (14)   To permit any dog, cat or other animal upon a public street or
highway, or upon any premises other than that of the person owning such dog,
cat or other animal unless such dog, cat or other animal is on a leash securely
fastened to a collar or harness and unless the owner has in his or her
immediate possession a device for the removal of excrement and a depository for
the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon property owned or
possessed by such person. The overall length of the leash, including the
handle, shall not exceed six feet and be held by its owner or other person able
to control such dog, cat or other animal and, while lawfully on the premises of
the owner, shall not be allowed to come in contact with any person who is not a
member of the immediate household. Dogs over 30 pounds shall not be leashed on
a retractable leash. The owner shall maintain control of his or her dog at all
times, including, but not limited to, dogs on traditional leashes and on
retractable leashes;
      (15)   To permit any dog to habitually snap, growl, snarl, jump upon or
otherwise threaten persons lawfully using any common thoroughfare, sidewalk,
passageway, bypath, play area, park or any place where people congregate or
walk;
      (16)   To own, keep, harbor or maintain any vicious or dangerous animal
or animal with vicious propensities in a manner which may or does endanger the
safety of persons or property off the owner’s premises or lawfully on the
owner’s premises. Any dog, cat or other animal that has previously demonstrated
vicious propensities shall not be permitted upon a public street or highway, or
upon any premises other than those of the person owning such dog, cat or other
animal unless the dog, cat or other animal wears a muzzle securely fastened
about its mouth in such a manner that it cannot bite, and is on a leash
securely fastened to a collar or harness. The leash shall be a non-retractable
leash and shall have an overall length, including the handle, of not to exceed
three feet, shall have a tensile strength of 300 pounds, and shall be held by
its owner or other person able to control such dog, cat or other animal and,
while lawfully on the premises of the owner, shall not be allowed to come in
contact with any person who is not a member of the immediate household. Every
dangerous or vicious animal allowed to be kept by state law shall have a
license. In order to obtain a license for a dangerous or vicious animal, the
owner of the animal shall present proof to the village that the owner has
procured liability insurance in the amount of $100,000, issued by an insurer
authorized to underwrite risks in the state, covering any damage or injury
which may be caused by the dangerous or vicious animal during the license
period. The insurance policy shall contain a provision that the Police
Department will be notified 30 days prior to any cancellation of the policy.
Each license shall bear a different number;
      (17)   To permit any dog or other animal to howl, yelp, whine or bark or
make noise in such a manner as to disturb any person or neighborhood at any
time of the day or night;
      (18)   For any person to keep or maintain an animal which has been found
to be a vicious animal unless such animal is at all times kept in an enclosure.
The only times that a vicious animal may be allowed out of the enclosure are if
it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary care for the
vicious animal or to comply with the order of a court of competent
jurisdiction; provided that, said vicious animal is securely muzzled and
restrained with a chain having a tensile strength of 300 pounds and not
exceeding three feet in length, and shall be under the direct control and
supervision of the owner or keeper of the vicious animal. Vicious animals shall
never be kept on a retractable leash.
         (a)   Any animal which has been found to be a vicious animal and which
is not confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the law enforcement
authority having jurisdiction in such area and shall be turned over to a
licensed veterinarian for destruction by lethal injection.
         (b)   No owner or keeper of a vicious animal shall sell or give away
such vicious animal.
      (19)   For any person to maintain a public nuisance by permitting any
dangerous or vicious animal to leave the premises of its owner when not under
control by leash or other recognized control methods as provided herein.
   (B)   (1)   Guide dogs for visually impaired or hearing-impaired persons,
support dogs for persons with physical disabilities, accelerant detection dogs
and sentry, guard or police owned dogs are exempt from this section; provided,
an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is performing duties as
expected.
      (2)   To qualify for exemption under this division (B), each such dog
shall be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with §
90.008 of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the owner of such exempted dog
to notify the Police Department of changes of address. In the case of a sentry
or guard dog, the owner shall keep the Police Department advised of the
location where such dog will be stationed.
      (3)   The Police Department shall provide all other necessary village
department heads or their designees with a categorized list of such exempted
dogs, and shall promptly notify such departments of any address changes
reported to him or her.
   (C)   The Village Attorney or Prosecutor may file a complaint to enjoin all
persons for maintaining or permitting such, to abate the same and to enjoin the
owner of such dog or other animal from permitting the same to leave his or her
premises when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing that an individual has
been bitten by an animal, to refuse to notify, within 24 hours, the authorized
person. When the authorized person receives information that any person has
been bitten by an animal, the authorized person shall have the owner confine
the biting animal under observation of a licensed veterinarian for a period of
ten days beginning within 24 hours of the biting incident. The biting animal
may be confined in the house of its owner in a manner which will prohibit it
from biting any person or animal if a licensed veterinarian adjudges such
confinement satisfactory.
   (B)   When the biting animal is currently inoculated with rabies vaccine,
the animal’s health shall be reported by the veterinarian to the authorized
person of the village and the county’s Department of Animal and Rabies Control
on the first and tenth days of the observation period for rabies.
   (C)   When the biting animal is not currently inoculated with rabies
vaccine, the animal’s health shall be reported by the veterinarian to the
authorized person of the village and the county’s Department of Animal and
Rabies Control on the first, fifth and tenth days of the observation period for
rabies.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the village’s Police Department to
complete the county animal dog bite card as soon as a bite is reported and mail
it to the county’s Department of Animal and Rabies Control within 24 hours.
   (E)   Owners of caged rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, gerbils, rats and mice
that have been owned over 30 days shall not be required to obtain a veterinary
examination when their caged animal has bitten a person, but shall report the
health of the biting animal by telephone or in person to the authorized person
of the village and the county’s Department of Animal and Rabies Control on the
first and tenth days following the bite.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a biting animal to euthanize,
sell, give away or otherwise dispose of or have inoculated against rabies, the
animal known to have bitten a person until it has been released from
confinement for observation for rabies.
   (G)   If the dog or other animal bites again during the confinement period,
it will be impounded for the full ten-day period commencing from the date of
the second bite. Owners allowing their dog or other animal to bite during the
confinement period will be subject to court citation. Owners not returning
their animals for follow-up examination on the appropriate dates will be in
violation and subject to court citation.
   (H)   The owner of said other animal shall be responsible for all fees and
charges incurred to meet the requirement of this section.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of a dangerous or vicious animal shall have the license
number of the animal tattooed on the upper inner lip of the animal by a
licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   The owner of a dangerous or vicious animal shall post a sign no
smaller than 24 inches square, bearing the legend “Warning-Dangerous Animal” in
print no smaller than three inches high, and the license number of the animal
in print no smaller than one inch high. The sign shall be posted at the entry
to the building in which the animal is kept, in such a way as to be visible
from the nearest public sidewalk.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Nuisance animals; impoundment authorized. Any dog or other animal
doing any of the acts prohibited in §
90.003 of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and such
animal may be seized and impounded as provided herein.
   (B)   Notice to owner; impoundment period; disposition of animals. After
such animal is impounded, the Police Department, Animal Warden or authorized
representative shall ascertain whether the animal is licensed and, if so,
shall, within a reasonable time, notify the person to whom the license was
issued that said animal has been impounded and may be redeemed. All animals
impounded pursuant to this section shall be held for a minimum of seven
calendar days after notification of the owner. In case any animal is not
released, it shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of; provided
that, none of said animals shall be used for experimental purposes.
   (C)   Redemption of impounded animal. Any dog or other animal impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this section may be redeemed upon payment of the
required redemption fees, fines, license and vaccination fees as provided
herein. The animal shall be returned to the owner; provided, he or she shall:
      (1)   Show satisfactory proof of ownership;
      (2)   Pay any fines or penalties imposed for violation of this
subchapter;
      (3)   Pay the cost of keeping the animal while impounded by the village
at its pound; and
      (4)   Secure an animal license or rabies vaccination, if applicable and
due.
   (D)   Liability for fines and costs. If ownership of the animal is
established and the owner refuses to redeem the same, he or she shall remain
obligated to pay all fines and impoundment expenses.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 90.007 DOG LICENSING.
   (A)   License required. All dogs three months of age or older harbored, kept
or maintained in the village shall be licensed annually; provided, however,
that, dogs kept in pet shops, pounds, shelters, hospitals or kennels need not
be licensed annually while kept at such pet shop, pound, shelter, hospital or
kennel.
   (B)   Application for license. Applications for dog licenses shall be on
forms provided by the village and shall be submitted with the annual fee to the
village.
   (C)   License fee. The annual fee to license each dog shall be $25 be as
specified from time to time as determined by the corporate authorities.
   (D)   Term of license. The license period shall be from January 1 of each
year to December 31 of the same year.
   (E)   License tag.
      (1)   Upon payment of the annual fee as provided, the village shall
provide each owner with a license tag and a memorandum of registry on each
animal.
      (2)   The license tag shall be securely affixed to a substantial collar
and shall be worn by each dog at all times.
      (3)   Tags shall not be transferrable to other animals and are non-
refundable.
   (F)   Electronic fences.
      (1)   Any owner who seeks to utilize an electronic fence must complete a
separate form so indicating and submit that form with his or her license
application. A list of all electronic fence owners and their property addresses
will be kept by the village and made available for inspection upon request.
      (2)   Owners of electric fences must post an approved sign at an approved
location on the property indicating such fence is in use.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 90.008 RABIES INOCULATION.
   (A)   Inoculations required. Except for animal shelters, animal impounding
facilities and laboratory animal facilities, every owner of a dog or cat four
months or more of age shall cause such dog or cat to be inoculated with rabies
vaccine by a licensed veterinarian at such intervals as approved by the state’s
Department of Agriculture. The rabies vaccine shall be licensed by the United
States Department of Agriculture and approved by the state’s Department of
Agriculture.
   (B)   Prerequisite to dog license. No license for a dog shall be issued
unless the application for said license is accompanied by a certificate by a
veterinarian that said dog has received inoculations for rabies prevention
within the preceding year as required by this section.
   (C)   Rabies tag. Any dog or cat which is kept or maintained in the village
shall display the county rabies tag on the cat or dog.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.009 ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into contact
with another animal, except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.010 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large, removal from premises prohibited. No domestic animal
afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall be allowed to run at
large, or be exposed to any public place whereby the health of humans or other
animals may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal be shipped or removed
from the premises of the owner, except under the supervision of an authorized
person.
   (B)   Preventive measures. It should be made the duty of such person so
authorized to secure such disposition of any diseased animal and secure
treatment of affected premises as to prevent the communication and spread of
contagion and infection, except as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.011 DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Time limit for disposition; burial places. It shall be unlawful for
any person to allow any dead animal which he or she owns to remain within the
village for more than 24 hours. No such animal shall be buried within the
village limits.
   (B)   Exemptions from provisions. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to the burial of birds.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
90.999
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.025 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare of the citizens of the village.
   (B)   It is intended to be applicable to “dangerous dogs”, as defined
herein, by ensuring responsible handling by their owners through registration,
confinement and liability insurance.
(Ord. 04-276, passed 11-5-2004)
§ 90.026 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, because of its aggressive nature, training or
characteristic behavior, presents a risk of serious physical harm or death to
human beings, or would constitute a danger to human life, physical well-being
or property if not kept under the direct control of the owner. This definition
shall not apply to dogs utilized by law enforcement officers in the performance
of their duties. The term DANGEROUS DOG includes any dog that according to the
records of the Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement agency:
      (1)   Has aggressively bitten, attacked, endangered or inflicted severe
injury on a human being on public or private property, or when unprovoked, has
chased or approached a person upon the street, sidewalks or any public grounds
in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; provided that, such
actions are attested to in a sworn statement, by one or more persons and
dutifully investigated by any of the above-referenced authorities;
      (2)   Has severely injured or killed a domestic animal while off the
owner’s property; or
      (3)   Has been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting,
or is a dog trained for dog fighting.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The taking or picking up and confining of an animal by any
police officer, Animal Control Officer or any other public officer under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material or of metal, designed
to fasten over the mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from biting any
person or other animal.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. An animal is secured by a leash, led under the control of a
person physically capable of restraining the animal and obedient to that
person’s commands or securely enclosed within the real property limits of the
owner’s premises.
(Ord. 04-276, passed 11-5-2004)
§ 90.027 NOTICE OF DANGEROUS DOG DECLARATION.
   (A)   If the Animal Control Officer, or his or her designee, police watch
commander or the Mayor, or his or her authorized representative, has reason to
believe that a dog falls within any of the categories that would render it
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer, police watch commander or the Mayor, or
his or her authorized representative, shall investigate the circumstances to
determine whether the dog falls within the definition of a “dangerous dog”, as
provided in this subchapter. In the event that following an investigation, the
Animal Control Officer, police watch commander or Mayor, his or her designee,
determines that the dog is dangerous as defined in this subchapter, the Animal
Control Officer, police watch commander or Mayor, or his or her designee, may
declare the dog is dangerous in accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Within seven calendar days of a determination by the appropriate
officer that a dog is dangerous, the officer making the determination shall
notify the dog’s owner, if known, in writing, of the declaration. This notice
shall identify the requirements and conditions for maintaining a dangerous dog
as set forth in this subchapter. If the owner is unknown or cannot be located,
the dog may be immediately impounded.
      (2)   If the owner’s address is known, but the owner cannot be located,
the notice shall be posted on the owner’s property, personally served upon the
owner or sent by certified mail to the owner’s last known address.
      (3)   The owner of a dog that has been declared dangerous in accordance
with this subchapter shall have the right to file a written request for a
hearing to contest the declaration. Such a request must be filed with the
Village Clerk within seven calendar days after the owner received notice of the
dangerous dog declaration. In the event that the owner fails to file a written
request for a hearing within the requisite seven-day period, or fails to appear
at a schedule hearing, the owner will be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing on the declaration. In such situation, the dog shall be deemed
dangerous and the owner shall be required to comply with all of the
requirements and conditions for maintaining a dangerous dog as set forth in
this subchapter.
      (4)   Within seven calendar days of the receipt of a written request for
a hearing or as soon thereafter as is practical for the Mayor, or his or her
authorized representative, a hearing shall be scheduled by the village. The
hearing shall be conducted by the Mayor or his or her authorized
representative. The hearing will be informal and strict rules of evidence shall
not apply. The owner and the village may be represented by counsel, present
oral and written evidence and cross-examine witnesses.
      (5)   The Mayor or his or her authorized representative shall issue a
written decision within seven business days after the conclusion of the
hearing. The owner shall be mailed a copy of the written decision. The decision
of the Mayor or his or her authorized representative shall be final.
      (6)   In the event that the Mayor or his or her authorized representative
upholds the dangerous dog declaration, the owner shall comply with all of the
requirements and conditions for maintaining a dangerous dog as set forth in
this chapter.
(Ord. 04-276, passed 11-5-2004)
§ 90.028 REQUIREMENTS FOR KEEPING A DANGEROUS DOG.
   In order to keep or permit a dangerous dog within the corporate limits of
the village, the owner of a dangerous dog shall be required to act in
accordance with the following.
   (A)   Confinement. All dangerous dogs shall be securely confined indoors or
in an enclosed and locked pen or structure upon the premises of the owner. The
pen or structure must have minimum dimensions of five feet by ten feet, and
must have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. If no bottom is
secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than
two feet.
   (B)   Leash/muzzle. The owner of a dangerous dog shall not allow the animal
to go outside its kennel, pen or structure, unless the animal is muzzled,
restrained by a chain or leash not more than three feet long and under the
physical control of a person not less than 18 years of age.
   (C)   Signs. The owner of a dangerous dog shall display a clearly visible
warning sign, in a prominent place on his or her premises, indicating that
there is a dangerous dog on the premises. The sign must be legible from the
public streets or thoroughfares upon which the owner’s property adjoins. The
owner shall also display a sign with a symbol warning children of the presence
of a dangerous dog. Exact or similar signs shall be posted on the dog’s kennel,
pen or enclosed structure.
   (D)   Insurance.
      (1)   The owner of a dangerous dog must maintain public liability
insurance providing a minimum amount of $100,000 of coverage, insuring the
owner for any damage or personal injury which may be caused by his or her
dangerous animal. Upon a declaration that a dog is dangerous, the owner of the
animal must provide proof to the Village Clerk that the owner possesses the
required insurance.
      (2)   Upon request of the village, the owner shall be required to present
proof of insurance, upon occasion, demonstrating that the owner is maintaining
said insurance.
   (E)   Notice of change of status. The owner of a dangerous dog shall notify
the village’s Police Department immediately upon learning that the dangerous
animal is unconfined or on the loose, or if the dog has attacked a human being
or domestic animal.
   (F)   Notice of change of ownership. If the owner of a dog declared to be
dangerous pursuant to this subchapter sells, gives away or otherwise transfers
custody or ownership of the dangerous animal, the owner shall, within three
days of the sale or transfer, provide the Police Department with the name,
address and telephone number of the dangerous dog’s new owner or custodian. The
owner shall notify the new owner or custodian of the animal’s designation as a
dangerous dog. If the new owner or custodian resides to keep the animal within
the corporate limits of the village, the owner shall inform the new owner or
custodian of the requirements and conditions for keeping a dangerous dog, as
established in this subchapter.
   (G)   Identifying microchip implanted in dog. All dangerous dogs shall have
a microchip implanted in the skin of the dog by a licensed veterinarian. The
microchip shall be required to identify the current owner of the dog by name,
address and telephone number. The cost of the microchip and the procedure to
implant the microchip shall be borne by the owner of the dangerous dog.
(Ord. 04-276, passed 11-5-2004) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.029 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT OR DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer or police watch commander may order the
impoundment and destruction of a dangerous dog upon occurrence of one of the
following:
      (1)   The dog has attacked, bitten, injured or killed a human being or
domestic animal;
      (2)   The dog has been declared to be dangerous pursuant to this
subchapter and the owner has failed to comply with the requirements and
conditions for keeping a dangerous dog in accordance with this subchapter; or
      (3)   The dog poses a threat of serious harm to the public health or
safety.
   (B)   Within seven calendar days of an impoundment, the officer ordering the
impoundment or destruction of a dog shall notify the animal’s owner, if known,
in writing, of the impoundment or destruction.
(Ord. 04-276, passed 11-5-2004)
§ 90.030 HEARING ON IMPOUNDMENT OR DESTRUCTION.
   The known owner of a dangerous dog shall have the opportunity to have a
hearing on the impoundment or recommended destruction in accordance with the
following procedures.
   (A)   The owner of a dog that has been impounded pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter shall have the right to file a written request for a hearing
to contest the impoundment. Such a request must be filed with the Village Clerk
within seven calendar days after the owner received notice of the impoundment.
In the event that the owner fails to file a written request for a hearing
within the requisite seven-day period, or fails to appear at a scheduled
hearing, the owner will be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing on the
impoundment. In such situation, the Mayor or his or her authorized
representative may order the destruction of the animal or take any other steps
he or she deems necessary to protect the public health or safety from the
potential danger posed by the dog.
   (B)   Within seven calendar days of the receipt of a written request for a
hearing, or as soon thereafter as is practical for the Mayor or his or her
authorized representative, a hearing shall be scheduled by the village. The
hearing shall be conducted by the Mayor or his or her authorized
representative. This hearing will be informal and strict rules of evidence
shall not apply. The owner and the village may be represented by counsel,
present oral and written evidence and cross-examine witnesses.
   (C)   The Mayor or his or her authorized representative shall issue a
written decision within seven business days after the conclusion of the
hearing. The owner shall be mailed a copy of the written decision. The decision
of the Mayor or his or her authorized representative shall be final.
(Ord. 04-276, passed 11-5-2004)
§ 90.031 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Dogs used by the Police Department, a private security company or a
law enforcement agency in performance of their duties; and
   (B)   A dog shall not be declared dangerous if it is determined that the
conduct of the dog was justified because:
      (1)   The threat or attack was sustained by a person who at the time was
committing a crime or offense upon the owner, a member of its household or
custodian of the dog;
      (2)   The threatened person was tormenting, abusing, assaulting or
physically threatening the dog or its offspring;
      (3)   The injured, threatened or killed domestic animal was attacking or
threatening the dog or its offspring; and/or
      (4)   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting itself,
its owner, custodian or a member of its household, kennel or offspring.
(Ord. 04-276, passed 11-5-2004)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.001 through
90.011 of this chapter shall be fined no less than $100 and no more than $750;
except that, violations related to animals at large or off the leash in public
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $150 for the first offense, $250
for the second offense and $500 for the third offense or any subsequent offense
thereafter.
   (B)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §§
90.025 through
90.031 of this chapter, for which no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty
of a petty offense for a first and second offense and shall be fined not less
than $100, nor more than $500. For a third or subsequent offense within one
year of the first offense, such person is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and
shall be fined not less than $200, nor more than $1,000, or imprisoned for more
than 30 days, or both. Each occurrence of a violation or non-compliance shall
be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 04-276, passed 11-5-2004; Ord. 23-004, passed 5-1-2023; Ord. 2024-016,
passed 11-6-2024)
CHAPTER 91: AIR AND WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Air and Water Pollution Control Board
   
91.003   Emissions prohibited
   
91.004   Open fires
   
91.005   Particulate matter; preventing escape
   
91.006   Odor nuisance
   
91.007   Circumvention
   
91.008   Water pollution control
   
91.009   Equipment malfunction
   
91.010   Inspections, tests and analyses
   
91.011   Confidentiality of records
Clean Indoor Air
   
91.025   Other fire restrictions
   
91.026   Definitions
   
91.027   Smoking in village facilities
   
91.028   Smoking in public places
   
91.029   Reasonable distance
   
91.030   Where smoking is not regulated
   
91.031   Declaration of establishment as non-smoking
   
91.032   Posting of signs
   
91.033   Non-retaliation
   
91.034   Enforcement
   
91.035   Other applicable laws
   
91.036   Applicability
   
91.037   Amendments
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR CONTAMINANT. Particulate matter, dust, fumes, gas, mist, smoke or vapor,
or any combination thereof.
   AIR POLLUTION. Presence in the outdoor atmosphere of one or more air
contaminants in sufficient quantities and of such characteristics and duration
as to be injurious to human, plant or animal life or to property, or which
unreasonably interferes with the enjoyment of life and property.
   BOARD. The Air and Water Pollution Control Board of the village.
   GARBAGE. Any rejected or waste household food, offal, swill or carrion, and
every accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that attends the
preparation, use, cooking and dealing in or storage of meat, fish, fowl, fruits
or vegetables and any other matter of any nature which is subject to decay,
putrefaction and the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odor which,
during or after decay, may serve as a breeding or feeding material for flies or
other germ-carrying insects.
   OPEN BURNING. Any burning of combustible materials wherein the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the open air without passing through a
stack or chimney.
   PERSON. Includes the singular and plural and also means any individual,
occupant, owner, owner’s agent, lessee or tenant, family, persons, groups,
firm, corporation, association, governmental agency or municipal or quasi-
municipal corporation.
   WASTE. Any or all of the following: domestic garbage; refuse; ashes; tin
cans; household trash, including discarded household furniture, fixtures and
appliances of all kinds; manure; dead animals or parts thereof; trees; tree
branches; tree roots; tree trunks; brush; shrubs; grass clippings; plant stalks
and leaves.
   WATER POLLUTION. The placing or discharge of any noxious, toxic or other
deleterious substance into any waters of the village, or upon the banks or
margins thereof, which may tend to affect the properties of such waters in a
manner which may tend to render such waters harmful or inimical to the public
health, safety or welfare, to animal or aquatic life, to the use of such waters
for domestic water supply, and for industrial, agricultural or recreational
purposes consistent with applicable water quality standards of the state.
   WATERS OF THE VILLAGE. That part of all streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, open drainage systems, storm sewers and all
other bodies or accumulations of water, surface and underground, natural or
artificial, which are within the jurisdiction of the village, except those
private waters which do not combine or effect a junction with natural surface
or underground waters.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1)
§ 91.002 AIR AND WATER POLLUTION CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   Board established; qualifications. There is hereby established an Air
and Water Pollution Control Board, which Board shall consist of seven members,
all of whom shall be residents of the village.
   (B)   Appointment, terms, vacancies in office. The Village President, with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint two members for
a term of one year, three members for a term of two years and the remaining two
members for a term of three years, of which one member shall be appointed
Chairperson. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member
whose place has become vacant in the manner herein provided for the appointment
of such member.
   (C)   Quorum. Four members shall constitute a quorum.
   (D)   Powers and duties. A majority of the Board is hereby vested the
following jurisdiction and authority:
      (1)   To administer this subchapter;
      (2)   To investigate or cause to be investigated such complaints about
air or water pollution in the village that are filed with the village;
      (3)   To set up procedure for prompt notification of all persons
concerning whom reports of violations of this subchapter have been received by
the village;
      (4)   To arrange for and conduct hearings on the receipt of official
reports of violations of the provisions of this subchapter and on receipt of
citizens’ complaints or on petitions of any persons;
      (5)   To have power to recommend to the Village Board to cause legal
action in the name of the village to be taken by the Village Attorney to abate
nuisances or to enjoin owners or operators from continuing violations of the
provisions of this subchapter or perpetrating nuisances;
      (6)   To appoint a Secretary of the Board to routinely process smoke and
nuisance reports, to record the Board proceedings and actions and to maintain
records of the Board;
      (7)   To make a study of the types and kinds of air pollution and water
pollution present in the village; and
      (8)   To recommend to the President and Board of Trustees provisions
relative to the control of all emissions of air and water contaminants for
inclusion on a comprehensive air and water pollution control ordinance which
would regulate those air and water contaminants that are of such quantities and
of such characteristics and duration as to be injurious to human, plant or
animal life or to property or which unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment
of life and property.
   (E)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall receive such compensation as
may be fixed from time to time by the corporate authorities of the village.
   (F)   Technical advisory staff. The Village President, with the advice and
consent of the village’s Board of Trustees, shall appoint to a technical
advisory staff, persons who shall be by profession chemists, engineers, medical
doctors or persons knowledgeable in the fields of air and water pollution, to
advise and assist the Board on technical, scientific and other matters.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) (Ord. 97-314, passed 1-21-1997)
§ 91.003 EMISSIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General. No person shall cause or allow to be emitted into the open
air any foreign materials such as dusts, gases, fumes, mists, vapors, smokes
and odors in quantities which, by reason of their objectionable properties,
shall be considered a nuisance because they:
      (1)   Injure or have a harmful effect upon the health and safety of any
person or the public;
      (2)   Create a disagreeable odor in the atmosphere;
      (3)   Cause damage to property; and/or
      (4)   Have a deleterious effect upon trees, plants or other forms of
vegetation.
   (B)   Emissions from operation of equipment.
      (1)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated, maintain or cause
to be maintained, any equipment or device which by its operation will cause the
emission of dusts, gases, fumes, mists, vapors, smokes and odors without
maintaining and operating efficiently while using such equipment or device.
Such equipment means, methods, devices or contrivances to reduce the quantity
of dusts, gases, fumes, mists, vapors, smokes and odors emitted into the open
air, and which is operated in conjunction with said equipment or device so that
the quantity of dusts, gases, fumes, mists, vapors, smokes and odors emitted
into the open air shall not violate the above provisions.
      (2)   Application of the provisions of this division (B) to specific
cases shall take into account the number of boilers or other fuel burning
devices connected to a given stack or chimney because the emission from a given
stack or chimney is a function of the number of units connected to it.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3-1) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004 OPEN FIRES.
   No paper, wood or other combustible waste, refuse, garbage, leaves, trees or
any other materials shall be burned in any open fire, except upon an
application for an issuance of a permit by the Control Board. At least three
hours prior to the time of starting any such fire pursuant to a permit so
issued, the holder of such permit shall notify the Fire Department of the
village of his or her intention to start such an open fire at a designated
time.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3-2) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.005 PARTICULATE MATTER; PREVENTING ESCAPE.
   (A)   No person shall permit the handling, transporting, depositing or
storage of any material in a manner which may allow unreasonable amounts of a
particulate matter to become airborne.
   (B)   No person shall permit the use, construction, repair or demolition of
any structure, site or open area without applying such reasonable measures as
may be necessary to prevent particulate matter from becoming airborne
including, but not limited to, paving or frequent cleaning of roads, driveways
and parking lots, application of dust-free surfacing, application of water and
the planting and maintenance of vegetative ground cover.
   (C)   No person shall perform sandblasting operations, blowing on fire-
proofing over steel building members, tuck-pointing, building cleaning and
similar operations without adequate means for preventing particulate matter
from become airborne. ADEQUATE MEANS may include, but are not limited to, wet
process of sandblasting, temporary enclosures and the like and the immediate
cleanup of the materials that have fallen to the ground, floor, platform or
other surface.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3-3) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006 ODOR NUISANCE.
   No person shall unreasonably permit the emission of any substance into the
ambient air which causes an objectionable odor so as to cause discomfort or
endanger the public health or welfare, or in such manner as to cause injury or
damage to business or property; and such air pollution is hereby found and
declared to be and shall constitute a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3-4) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.007 CIRCUMVENTION.
   (A)   No person shall build, erect, alter, install or use any article,
equipment or other process, the purpose of which is to dilute or conceal an
emission without resulting in a reduction in the total release of air
contaminants into the atmosphere.
   (B)   This restriction shall not apply to the dilution of odors.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3-5) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.008 WATER POLLUTION CONTROL.
   (A)   Nuisance declared. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit the
placing or discharge of any substance in any location which causes or may tend
to cause pollution of the waters of the village, and such water pollution is
hereby found and declared to be, and shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Storage of materials in enclosures. No person shall place, store or
hold any liquid or solid material in any existing or new impoundment such as a
reservoir, dike or other enclosure which causes or tends to cause pollution of
the waters of the village if the material escaped therefrom, without first
having obtained the approval of the Board for said enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.009 EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION.
   (A)   Emissions exceeding any of the limitations established in this
subchapter which are directly caused by unusual conditions or malfunctions or
shutdown of any process, fuel burning, refuse burning or pollution control
system, or the shutdown of such equipment for scheduled maintenance, shall not
be deemed in violation of this subchapter if the Board Chairperson finds that
the circumstances of the particular situation warrant the exemption and that
the violation was unforeseeable and unavoidable and not caused by the
negligence of the person responsible therefor and the following requirements
are met.
      (1)   Notice of such occurrence, in the case of any malfunction of
equipment, shall be given to the Board Chairperson immediately by telephone,
telegraph or by messenger, and confirmed in writing on the next business day.
      (2)   The person responsible for the equipment or source shall use every
reasonable effort to abate the pollution without undue delay and shall notify
the Board Chairperson forthwith when this has been accomplished.
      (3)   If a shutdown of any equipment which is directly related to a
source of pollution is required for scheduled maintenance, the intent to shut
down shall be reported to the Board Chairperson at least 24 hours prior to the
shutdown, and maximum efforts, including off-shift labor, have been used to
accomplish such maintenance during periods of curtailed operations; and then,
only when it would be impossible to shut down the source operation during the
maintenance period.
      (4)   The person responsible for such pollution shall submit a full
written report of such occurrence to the Board Chairperson as soon as
practical, including a statement of all known causes and the actions which such
person proposes to take to minimize or eliminate future occurrences. Within 14
days after receipt of such report, the Board Chairperson shall approve or
disapprove the proposed abatement program and shall state his or her reasons
therefor, and grant or deny the exception herein provided. The Board
Chairperson may require that standby equipment be installed or that the entire
process be shut down while the equipment causing the malfunction is being
repaired or otherwise cured. Failure to submit a report or failure to comply
with any condition upon which the Board Chairperson approves a report shall be
a separate violation of this subchapter and, thereafter, said person shall not
be entitled to the relief afforded herein without the approval of the Board
Chairperson.
   (B)   (1)   If said emission causes an accumulation or deposit of material
or other damage or undesirable condition on public property, then the person
responsible shall immediately cure said condition and shall pay for damage
caused thereby.
      (2)   Should such person fail to comply with the written demand of the
Board Chairperson to accomplish the foregoing, the Board Chairperson may take
such measures as are reasonable and necessary to cure the condition, subject to
the approval of the Village President and the Board of Trustees, and all
necessary expenses incurred thereby shall be assessed against the property and
the person in charge of the operation and may be recovered by the village in
appropriate civil proceedings before a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-5) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.010 INSPECTIONS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   Entry powers. The Board Chairperson or any other member of the Board
may enter at any reasonable time, with reasonable notice, into or upon any
private or public property, except the administrative offices of any person,
for the purpose of inspection and investigation of any condition or equipment
which the Board Chairperson shall have reasonable cause to believe to be
causing pollution in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Records inspected. The Board Chairperson or other members of the Board
may inspect at any reasonable time and in a reasonable manner, with reasonable
notice, any record relating to the use of equipment or control apparatus which
may effect the emission of air or water contaminants, or record relating to the
use of fuel, or the distribution, storage or transportation of fuel.
      (1)   Tests and analyses. During the course of an inspection, if the
Board Chairperson or other member of the Board obtains a sample of contaminant,
fuel, process material or other material which may effect the emission of
contaminants, he or she shall give the person in charge a receipt for the
sample obtained, if requested to do so prior to leaving the premises.
      (2)   Samples. If samples of air or water contaminants are taken for
analysis, a duplicate of the analytical report shall be furnished upon request
to the person in charge.
   (C)   Photographs. If photographs are taken on private property, said
photographs must be offered for inspection to the person in charge, and the
Board Chairperson shall cooperate in providing copies of said photographs at
the expense of the person requesting them.
   (D)   Consultants during inspections. If the Board Chairperson believes that
a consultant is needed to accompany him, her or other member of the Board in
making an inspection or assisting in conducting test(s), the person in charge
is to be given advance notice thereof.
   (E)   Interference with inspections prohibited. No person shall refuse
entry, nor obstruct, delay, prevent or in any way interfere with the Board
Chairperson or other member of the Board while carrying out an inspection, or
in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-6) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.011 CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Any records or other information furnished to or obtained by the Board
Chairperson or his or her Board members concerning air or water equipment
sources which are certified in writing by the owner to be confidential because
it relates to production sales or process unique to the owner, shall be used
only in the administration of this subchapter and shall not be published or
made available to the public by the agency or the Appeals Board.
   (B)   All such information shall be considered as confidential and shall not
be disclosed in any manner without the prior written consent of the person
responsible.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the use of such
information by the Board Chairperson in compiling or publishing analyses or
summaries relating to the general condition of the outdoor atmosphere or of the
waters of the village; provided that, such analyses or summaries do not
identify any owner or reveal any information otherwise confidential under this
section.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-7)
CLEAN INDOOR AIR
§ 91.025 OTHER FIRE RESTRICTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter overrides any existing elimination of smoking
that is already covered by Fire Code restrictions.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007)
§ 91.026 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCADE. A public place of amusement, as defined in Title XI of this code of
ordinances, which contains four or more automatic amusement devises and is not
licensed to serve alcoholic liquor.
   BAR/TAVERN. An establishment that is subject to a license for the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises and that derives 65% or more
of its gross proceeds from the sale of alcoholic liquor. Each BAR/TAVERN shall
provide such documentation as may be requested by the Department of Business
Affairs and Licensing and Revenue to enable those departments to determine
whether the establishment meets the percentage requirement of this definition.
   BUSINESS. Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
limited liability company or other business entity formed for profit-making
purposes, including, without limitation, retail establishments where goods or
services are sold as well as professional corporations and other entities where
legal, medical, dental, engineering, architectural or other professional
services are delivered.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, and a person who volunteers his or
her services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including without limitation a municipal corporation, trust or non-profit
entity that employs the services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling, that is enclosed or
semi-enclosed with:
      (1)   Solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways); or
      (2)   Solid walls with half-wall petitions and no windows (exclusive of
doorways) which extend from the floor to the ceiling, without limitation to
lobbies and corridors.
   ENCLOSED OR SEMI-ENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA OR RECREATIONAL AREA. Any sports
pavilion, stadium, gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller
and ice rink, bowling alley and other similar places where members of the
general public assemble either to engage in physical exercise, or participate
in athletic competition or recreational activity, to witness sports, cultural,
recreational or other events.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Any office or institution providing medical care or
treatment of diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional, or other medical,
physiological or psychological conditions, including without limitation
hospitals, clinics, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories and
offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists
and all specialists within these professions. The definition shall include all
waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semi-private rooms and wards within
health care facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer that employees frequent during the course of employment,
including without limitation work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways and vehicles. A
private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is used as a
childcare, adult day care or health care facility or home-based business of any
kind open to the public.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including without limitation banks, educational
facilities, government buildings, health care facilities, laundromats, museums,
public transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurants, bars/taverns,
retail food production and marketing establishments, retail service
establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters and
waiting rooms. A private residence is a not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as
a childcare, adult day care, health care facility or home-based business of any
kind open to the public.
   PRIVATE FUNCTION. A gathering of persons for the purpose of deliberation,
education, instruction, entertainment, amusement or dining where membership or
specific invitation is a prerequisite to entry and where the event is not
intended to be open to the public.
   RESTAURANT. Any retail food establishment, as that term is defined in §
120.40 of this code of ordinances and that derives less than 65% of its gross
proceeds from the sale of alcoholic liquor. The term RESTAURANT shall include,
if applicable, a restaurant bar area. Each RESTAURANT shall provide such
documentation as may be requested by the Department of Business Affairs and
Licensing and Revenue to enable those departments to determine whether the
establishment meets the percentage requirements of this definition.
   RESTAURANT BAR AREA. An area of a restaurant that is primarily devoted to
the serving of alcoholic liquor.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. Any retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental and where no one under 18 is permitted.
   SERVICE LINE. Any indoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for
or receiving services of any kind, whether or not the service involves the
exchange of money.
   SHOPPING MALL. Any enclosed walkway or hall area that serves to connect
retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, weed, hookah or other lighted tobacco product in any manner or
in any form.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007)
§ 91.027 SMOKING IN VILLAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Prohibition.
      (1)   Smoking in village facilities. Smoking by inhaling, exhaling,
burning or carrying any lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or other lighted tobacco
product in any other form (“smoking”) is not permitted in any areas of any
village facility, including, without limitation, those village facilities
housing administrative offices, courthouses, detention facilities or jails.
This ban on smoking applies to all public areas of village facilities as well
as all areas used only by village employees or officials, including without
limitation individual offices.
      (2)   Smoking in village vehicles. Smoking is prohibited in all vehicles
owned or leased by the village.
   (B)   Reasonable distance. Smoking is prohibited within 15 feet of an
enclosed area of any village facility so as to prohibit congestion at exits
that could constitute a fire hazard in the event of an emergency evacuation of
the village facility. However, if the village operates village facilities
within buildings owned by third parties and the village’s use in those
buildings is not exclusive, this division (B) shall apply only insofar as it
restricts the conduct of village employees.
   (C)   Implementation. All appropriate village representatives and all
elected officials shall implement the foregoing policy.
   (D)   Effect of section.
      (1)   This section supersedes and replaces any and all earlier
resolutions and ordinances pertaining to the subject of a smoking policy for
village facilities. It is intended for this section to apply to village
facilities.
      (2)   However, to the extent that any provision of this section is less
restrictive in regulating smoking than another ordinance, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
      (3)   This section shall take effect immediately upon passage.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.028 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places and places of
employment within the village, including, without limitation, the following
places:
   (A)   Arcades, if persons under the age of 18 are permitted entrance;
   (B)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries and museums;
   (C)   Convention facilities;
   (D)   Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage,
drama, lecture, musical recital or other similar performance;
   (E)   Health care facilities and adult care facilities;
   (F)   Day care centers, nursery schools, elementary schools, high schools,
community colleges, technical training establishments, specialty schools,
colleges and universities;
   (G)   Lobbies, hallways and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums and enclosed common areas in trailer parks;
   (H)   Polling places;
   (I)   Public transportation facilities under the authority of government
agencies, including without limitation, buses, trains, taxicabs and limousines,
and ticket, boarding and waiting areas of public transit stations;
   (J)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways and other enclosed
common-use areas;
   (K)   Public elevators and all retail stores where merchandise is displayed
and offered for sale;
   (L)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
without limitation school buildings, under the control of an agency, board,
commission, committee or council of the village or a political subdivision of
the state, to the extent the place is subject to the jurisdiction of the
village;
   (M)   Service lines;
   (N)   Shopping malls;
   (O)   Sports arenas or recreational areas, including, without limitation,
enclosed places in outdoor arenas;
   (P)   Public meetings;
   (Q)   Gymnasiums;
   (R)   Government vehicles used for village business such as maintenance
trucks or fleet vehicles; and
   (S)   Public and private school buildings.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.029 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking is prohibited within 15 feet of any entrance to an enclosed area in
which smoking is prohibited.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.030 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
91.027 through
91.034 of this chapter:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult
care facility, health care facility or home-based business of any kind open to
the public;
   (B)   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms; provided, however, that, not more than 25% of the
rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated;
   (C)   Retail tobacco stores; provided that, smoke from these places does not
infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of §§
91.028 and
91.029 of this chapter;
   (D)   Private clubs, lodges, fraternities, societies and/or orders;
   (E)   Bar/tavern;
   (F)   Restaurant or restaurant bar area;
   (G)   Grocery stores;
   (H)   Bingo facilities;
   (I)   Bowling alleys; and
   (J)   Any public place or place of employment otherwise subject to this
subchapter whose owner or operator can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the
village’s public health officials, Fire Inspector and environmental officials
that such area has been equipped with air filtration or purification devices or
similar technologies as to render the exposure to secondhand smoke in such
area, notwithstanding the fact that smoking may be occurring in such area,
equivalent to such exposure to secondhand smoke in the ambient outdoor air
surrounding the establishment. The village’s public health and environmental
officials are jointly authorized to promulgate regulations specifying what
types of technologies, when and if available, and taking into account any
applicable federal and/or state standards, satisfy the requirements of this
division (J).
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007)
§ 91.031 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NON-SMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, an owner, operator,
manager or other person in control of an establishment, facility or outdoor
area may declare that entire establishment as a non-smoking place.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007)
§ 91.032 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this subchapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign
clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (B)   The operator, manager or other person having control of an area where
smoking is prohibited by this subchapter shall remove all ashtrays and other
smoking paraphernalia intended for use where smoking is prohibited.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.033 NON-RETALIATION.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any manner
retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment or customer because
that employee, applicant or customer exercises any rights afforded by this
subchapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.034 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any law enforcement agency and certified local public health official
(department) with jurisdiction shall be authorized to enforce this subchapter
within its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this subchapter
may file a complaint with the village’s Fire Inspector.
   (C)   The village’s public health and environmental officials, Fire
Inspector and environmental officials, or their designees, shall, while an
establishment is undergoing other public health inspections, inspect for
compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   Any owner, manager, operator or employee of an establishment regulated
by this subchapter shall inform persons violating this subchapter of the
appropriate provisions thereof.
   (E)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
subchapter, the applicable certified local Health Department or any person
aggrieved by the failure of the owner, operator, manager of other person in
control of a public place or a place of employment to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter may apply for injunctive relief to enforce these
provisions in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007)
§ 91.035 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This subchapter shall not be interpreted or be construed to permit smoking
where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007)
§ 91.036 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all areas within the village, except those
areas which are governed by an ordinance of another governmental entity (which
by law may not be superseded by this subchapter).
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007)
§ 91.037 AMENDMENTS.
   This subchapter may be amended at any time by a majority vote of the members
of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
91.001 through
91.011 of this chapter or any rule or regulation of the Control Board shall be
fined according to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and each day of such violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   All persons owning, operating or in charge or control of any
equipment who shall permit any violation of §§
91.001 through
91.011 of this chapter shall be individually and collectively liable for any
penalties imposed by §§
91.001 through
91.011 of this chapter.
      (3)   The village may, in addition to the prosecutions hereinabove
authorized, maintain any other legal or equitable action for the abatement of
pollution.
      (4)   The imposition of a penalty or restriction in §§
91.001 through
91.011 of this chapter shall not be construed to abridge or otherwise impair
the right of any person to maintain any action or take other appropriate
measures to obtain damages or other relief on account of injuries to persons or
property.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-8)
   (C)   (1)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by §§
91.027 through
91.033 of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine
not more than $100.
      (2)   A person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of §§
91.027 through
91.033 of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $100 for the first violation;
         (b)   A fine not more than $500 for the second violation within one
year of the first violation; and
         (c)   A fine not more than $2,500 for each additional violation within
one year and a 60-day suspension or revocation of any permit or license issued
to the person for the premises on which the violation occurred.
      (3)   Each day on which a violation of §§
91.027 through
91.033 of this chapter occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct
violation.
(Ord. 07-387, passed 3-19-2007)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.001   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 92.001 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village’s fair housing regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 09-484, passed 9-21-2009)
CHAPTER 93: PARADES AND OPEN AIR MEETINGS
Section
   
93.001   Definitions
   
93.002   Permit required; exceptions
   
93.003   Permit application
   
93.004   Permit fee
   
93.005   Bond requirements
   
93.006   Permit issuance; notice to officials
   
93.007   Permit rejection; alternate permit
   
93.008   Permit contents
   
93.009   Conflicting permit applications
   
93.010   Permit conditions
   
93.011   Public conduct
   
93.012   Permit revocation
 
   
93.999   Penalty
§ 93.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN AIR MEETING. Any congregation of citizens held outdoors and upon any
public property for the purpose of hearing speakers or discussing some matter
of common interest where the number of participants expected may reasonably be
assumed to exceed 50.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display, in or upon any street, park or other
public place in the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-1)
§ 93.002 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall participate in a parade or open air meeting held on
any public way or on any public property unless a written permit therefor shall
first be obtained from the President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing such conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; or
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-2) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.003 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application to conduct a parade or open air meeting shall be made
in writing to the President and Board of Trustees by a representative of the
group seeking a permit. The application shall be filed with the Village Clerk
not less than 21 days before, who shall transmit a copy of the application to
the President and each Trustee. The President and Board of Trustees shall act
on the application at the first regular Board meeting after receipt of the
application or at any special meeting prior to said regular meeting.
   (B)   The application shall set forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade or open air meeting;
      (2)   If the parade or open air meeting is proposed to be conducted for,
on behalf of or by an organization, the name, address and telephone number of
the headquarters of the organization, and of the authorized and responsible
heads of such organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson or chairperson of the open air meeting;
      (4)   The date when the parade or open air meeting is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, the termination point
and the location of speakers’ platforms;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute such parade or open air meeting; the type of animals;
and description of the vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when such parade or open air meeting will start and
terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade or
open air meeting;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   If the parade or open air meeting is designed to be held by, and
on behalf of or for, any person other than the applicant, the applicant for
such permit shall file a communication in writing from the person proposing to
hold the parade or open air meeting authorizing the applicant to apply for the
permit on his or her behalf;
      (12)   The name and address of a resident of the village who will act as
additional sponsor for said parade or open air meeting and who will be
responsible for the application fee and bond; and
      (13)   An agreement to pay for additional expenses incurred by the
village by reason of the issuance of said permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-3)
§ 93.004 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a parade or open air meeting permit shall be $100. This fee
shall be paid after approval by the President and Board of Trustees of the
issuance of said permit. In the case of hardship or other good cause shown, the
President and Board of Trustees may waive the permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-4)
§ 93.005 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   There shall also be filed at the time the applicant secures his or her
parade or open air meeting permit, a bond in the sum of $1,000 to be executed
by two responsible citizens, one of whom shall be a resident of the village,
indemnifying the village for the additional costs and expenses incurred in
supplying additional police, fire and other municipal services for the parade
or open air meeting. In lieu of the individual bond, a bond from an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state may be supplied. The applicant
and surety shall agree to pay the additional costs and expenses of the village
incurred by reason of the issuance of the parade or open air meeting permit
within 30 days of receipt of the itemization of expenses from the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-5)
§ 93.006 PERMIT ISSUANCE; NOTICE TO OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The President and Board of Trustees shall issue a permit as provided
for hereunder when, from a consideration of the application and from such other
information as may otherwise be obtained, they find that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      (2)   The conduct of the parade or open air meeting will not require the
diversion of so great a number of police officers of the village to properly
police the line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent
normal police protection to the village;
      (3)   The conduct of such parade or open air meeting will not require the
diversion of so great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance
service to portions of the village other than that to be occupied by the
proposed line of march and areas contiguous thereto;
      (4)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at the open air
meeting or assembly points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper
fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to
such assembly areas;
      (5)   The conduct of such parade or open air meeting will not interfere
with the movement of firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
      (6)   The conduct of the parade or open air meeting is not reasonably
likely to cause injury to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or
create a disturbance;
      (7)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
      (8)   The parade or open air meeting is not to be held for the sole
purpose of advertising any products, goods or event, and is not designed to be
held purely for private profit;
      (9)   The march, assembly, meeting or gathering is to be in not more than
one specific area of or location in the village on any given day;
      (10)   The march, assembly, meeting or gathering is limited to such
numbers as in the opinion of the President and Board of Trustees will not
obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic in an unreasonable manner. The permit
issued shall state the number of persons who may participate in the parade or
open air meeting if issued; and
      (11)   The parade is not to be held during any peak traffic period, as
defined in §
93.010 of this chapter.
   (B)   Immediately upon the issuance of a parade or open air meeting permit,
the Chief of Police shall send a copy thereof to the following:
      (1)   Village President;
      (2)   Village Attorney;
      (3)   Fire Chief;
      (4)   Superintendent of the Department of Public Works;
      (5)   Postmaster; and
      (6)   General manager or responsible head of each public transportation
utility, the regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of
the proposed parade.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-6)
§ 93.007 PERMIT REJECTION; ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   (A)   The President and Board of Trustees may disapprove the application
and, if disapproved, notice shall be mailed to the applicant stating the
reasons for the denial of the permit.
   (B)   The President and Board of Trustees, in denying an application for a
parade or open air meeting, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the
parade or open air meeting on a date, at a time or over a route or a place
different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an
alternate permit shall, within five days after notice of the action of the
President and Board of Trustees, file a written notice of acceptance with the
Village Clerk who shall immediately notify the President, each Trustee and the
Chief of Police of such acceptance. An alternate parade or open air meeting
permit shall conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of a
parade or open air meeting permit under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-7)
§ 93.008 PERMIT CONTENTS.
   (A)   Parade permit. Each parade permit shall state the following
information:
      (1)   Starting time;
      (2)   Minimum speed;
      (3)   Maximum speed;
      (4)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
      (5)   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade;
      (6)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
      (7)   Such other information as the Chief of Police shall find necessary
to the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Open air meeting permit. Each open air meeting permit shall state the
following:
      (1)   Starting time;
      (2)   Termination time;
      (3)   Place of meeting;
      (4)   Maximum number of persons authorized to attend; and
      (5)   Such other information as the Chief of Police shall find necessary
to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-8)
§ 93.009 CONFLICTING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   If the President and Board of Trustees shall receive more than one
application for a parade or open air meeting at the same time and the same
place, or on the same day, the application filed first in time shall take
precedence.
      (1)   An application shall be considered to be “at the same time” if the
event is scheduled to commence within two hours before or after the holding of
another event.
      (2)   An application shall be considered to be “at the same place” if the
requested parade route comes at any point within six blocks or any equivalent
distance from the route of another parade or if the open air meeting be
conducted within one-half mile of another open air meeting.
   (B)   If the President and Board of Trustees receives an application for
more than one parade or open air meeting in a single day, they may set a time
for the duration of each parade or open air meeting which time shall not,
without the consent of the group seeking the permit, be less than three hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-9)
§ 93.010 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with provisions. A permittee hereunder shall comply with
all permit directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and
ordinances.
   (B)   Possession of permit. The parade or open air meeting chairperson or
other person heading or leading such activity shall carry the permit upon his
or her person during the conduct of the parade or open air meeting.
   (C)   Hours parades or open air meetings to be conducted.
      (1)   Parades. All parades shall be held during daylight hours at times
other than peak traffic periods, Monday through Saturday, and not before 12:00
noon on Sundays.
      (2)   Open air meetings. All open air meetings shall conclude by 11:00
p.m. and shall not be held before 12:00 noon on Sunday.
   (D)   Peak traffic periods. Peak traffic periods for the purpose of this
section shall be 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
   (E)   Exemption. The time limitation shall not apply on state or national
holidays.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-10) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.011 PUBLIC CONDUCT.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade or with any person in an open air
meeting.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are
in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police shall have the authority
when reasonably necessary to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along
a highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. The
Chief of Police shall post signs to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for
any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No
person shall be liable for parking on a street unposted in violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-11) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.012 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to revoke a parade or open air
meeting permit issued hereunder upon application of the standards for issuance
as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-12)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be fined not to exceed $500
for each offense.
   (B)   The violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance to be abated in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-13)
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC LIBRARY
Section
   
94.001   Use of library
   
94.002   Damage to library property
   
94.003   Library Fund
 
   
94.999   Penalty
§ 94.001 USE OF LIBRARY.
   The Dolton Public Library shall be free to the use of the inhabitants of the
village, subject to such reasonable rules and regulations as the village’s
Board of Trustees may adopt in order to render the use of the library of the
greatest benefit to the greatest number.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 94.002 DAMAGE TO LIBRARY PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall willfully or maliciously cut, write upon, injure,
deface, tear or destroy any book, newspaper, plate, picture, engraving or other
thing of value belonging to the Dolton Public Library, or shall willfully or
maliciously commit any injury upon the grounds, building, furniture, fixtures
or other property thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.003 LIBRARY FUND.
   (A)   Custodian of Fund. The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of the
Library Fund. The bond he or she executes as Village Treasurer shall be
conditioned for the faithful performance of his or her duty as Treasurer of the
Library Fund.
   (B)   Library tax; proceeds. The corporate authorities shall levy a tax for
library purposes of not to exceed 0.12% of the full, fair cash value of all the
taxable property in the village, as equalized or assessed by the Department of
Revenue. The library taxes provided for herein are in addition to all other
taxes or tax rates authorized to be levied and shall not be a part of the taxes
making up any rate prescribed as a limitation on the amount of taxes the
village may levy. The library taxes provided for in this division (B) shall be
levied and collected in like manner with other general taxes of the village and
the proceeds shall be deposited on a special fund which shall be known as the
Library Fund. The proceeds of any such tax shall be paid over to the Board of
Library Directors.
   (C)   Expenditures from Fund. Expenditures from the Library Fund shall be
under the direction of the Board of Library Directors.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
94.002 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in accordance
with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
CHAPTER 95: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.001   Smoking
   
95.002   Clay holes and excavations to be fenced
Nuisances Generally
   
95.015   Common law nuisances
   
95.016   Nuisances defined
   
95.017   Nuisances prohibited
   
95.018   Notice to abate
   
95.019   Abatement by village
Plants and Weeds
   
95.030   Nuisance declared
   
95.031   Height restrictions
   
95.032   Removal notice
   
95.033   Abatement; costs to owner
   
95.034   Weed cutting lien
   
95.035   Foreclosure of lien
 
   
95.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.001 SMOKING.
   (A)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking, or the carrying of a lighted cigar, pipe
or cigarette is prohibited:
      (1)   In any retail store which has in its employ five or more full-time
employees engaged in work at the same time on the premises, except for areas
designated as smoking areas and except for areas set apart for serving food or
beverage, waiting and rest rooms, executive offices and rooms and areas where
merchandise is not exposed;
      (2)   In every theater, church, school or garage, except in rooms
designated as smoking rooms or smoking areas; and
      (3)   In every building or premises where the combustible nature and
quantity of contents are, in the opinion of the Chief of the Fire Department,
hazardous to life and property from fire.
   (B)   Smoking receptacles. All smoking rooms or smoking areas as permitted
in premises designated in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall be provided
with smoking stands, ashtrays or sand jars and shall be cleaned daily and kept
in a sanitary condition at all times.
   (C)   No smoking signs. “NO SMOKING” signs shall be conspicuously posted in
every room, building or premises where smoking is prohibited. The words “NO
SMOKING” on a sign shall be in letters of at least one inch in size in a color
which shall be in contrast to the background color of said sign.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.002 CLAY HOLES AND EXCAVATIONS TO BE FENCED.
   The owner, lessee or person in possession of any real estate within the
village upon which are located or situated any clay holes or other similar
excavations is hereby required to cause such clay holes or excavations to be
enclosed with wooden or wire fences of not less than six feet in height. When
such fences are of wire, only smooth or non-barbed wire shall be used below a
height of six feet above the established grade or about the ground where no
grade has been established, and such fence or fences shall consist of not less
than eight rows of wire, and such rows of wire shall not be more than nine
inches apart.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) Penalty, see §
95.999
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 95.015 COMMON LAW NUISANCES.
   In all cases where no provision is made defining what are nuisances and how
the same may be removed, abated or prevented, in addition to what may be
declared such herein, those offenses which are known to be the common law of
the land, the statutes of the state and other ordinances of the village may, in
case the same exists within the village limits, be treated as such and
proceeded against as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
§ 95.016 NUISANCES DEFINED.
   Whatever is dangerous to human health or renders ground, water, air or food
dangerous or injurious to human health, and the following specific acts,
conditions and things, each and all of them are hereby declared to constitute
nuisances:
   (A)   Offensive substances.
      (1)   The deposit or accumulation of any foul, decaying or putrescent
substance, or other offensive matter, in or upon any private or public place;
      (2)   The storage of any foul, decaying or putrescent matter in liquid or
solid form in any vault, cesspool or other receptacle; and/or
      (3)   The overflow of any foul liquid or the escape of any gases to such
an extent that the same shall become or be likely to become hazardous to health
or shall, by reason of offensive odors, become a source of discomfort to
persons living in or passing by the vicinity thereof.
   (B)   Animal carcasses; offal.
      (1)   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or
noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place to the
prejudice of others; and/or
      (2)   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter, or the
carcass of any dead animal, in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well,
common sewer or public place.
   (C)   Water pollution. To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water
of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake to the injury or prejudice of
others;
   (D)   Obstructions and encroachments. To obstruct or encroach upon public
highways, private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places and ways to
burying places;
   (E)   Offensive businesses. To erect, continue or use any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture which by
occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or
dangerous to the health of individuals or to the public;
   (F)   Unauthorized advertising. To advertise wares or occupation by painting
notices of the same on, or affixing them to fences or other private property,
or on rocks or other natural objects without the consent of the owner, or if on
the highway or other public place, without permission of the corporate
authorities;
   (G)   Improper building construction.
      (1)   A building or a portion of a building occupied as a dwelling which
is not lighted and ventilated by means of at least one window in each room,
said room opening to the outer air;
      (2)   A building, or dwelling unit in said building, which is not
provided with a plentiful supply of pure water; and/or
      (3)   A building, or dwelling unit in said building, which is not
provided with one sink for each family, said sink to be connected to the
sewerage system or a properly constructed cesspool if no sewer main is
available.
   (H)   Stagnant ponds. The accumulation of water in which mosquito larvae may
breed;
   (I)   Spitting in public. It shall be unlawful to spit or expectorate in or
on any public place, or in or on the premises of any store, theater, hall,
public vehicle or other place frequented by the public or to which the public
is invited;
   (J)   Improper fill.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to fill any lot, parcel or piece of property
with garbage.
      (2)   Property which is filled with stones, concrete or other similar
material, excluding soil, shall be leveled and covered with a minimum of three
inches of soil.
      (3)   This division (J) shall not apply to the village garbage dump.
   (K)   Basketball playing in residential districts and planned senior/elderly
family dwelling districts. It shall be unlawful to engage in playing basketball
within residential districts and planned senior/elderly family dwelling
districts between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; and
   (L)   Portable basketball hoop.
      (1)   It is unlawful to use portable basketball hoops unless:
         (a)   Said portable basketball hoops are being used on private
property;
         (b)   The portable basketball hoops when in use are situated at least
20 feet from the public right-of-way; and
         (c)   The name and address of owner is permanently affixed to said
portable basketball hoops.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be unlawful to use portable basketball hoops on
public property, in public ways, public streets, rights-of-way or alleyways at
any time.
         (b)   A basketball hoop located within the public right-of-way shall
be presumed to have been placed with the knowledge and consent of the owner of
the abutting private property.
         (c)   Damage to the basketball hoop which occurs during the lawful,
non-negligent use of the public right-of-way shall be the responsibility of the
hoop owner.
         (d)   The village shall not be liable for any damage to the basketball
hoop or other property resulting from the non-negligent removal of the
basketball hoop when a basketball hoop has been removed due to a nuisance
condition.
      (3)   (a)   Portable basketball hoops which are found in the village on
public property, in public ways, public streets, rights-of-way or alleyways,
streets and rights-of-way and which items do not have identification as to
ownership of those items, shall be considered abandoned and subject to removal
by the Police Department and/or the Public Works Department.
         (b)   Abandoned portable basketball hoops (personal property)
confiscated by the village may be redeemed by the rightful owner upon payment
of a fee of $100. Said fee calculated to cover the village’s cost in removing
and storing the item. The village’s Police Department may issue citations for
violations of the provisions of this division (L) to the previously
unidentified owner of the portable basketball hoop at the time the owner seeks
to redeem the property, including, but not limited to, the failure to
permanently affix the name and address of the owner to said portable basketball
hoop. Any citizen or owner who desires to contest whether the item of personal
property was properly removed as abandoned property, may file a request for a
hearing with the village’s Police Department. Said hearing shall be held within
21 days of the request for a hearing.
      (4)   The village shall choose an officer or employee of the village to
serve as Hearing Officer (in no case shall that Hearing Officer be an
individual who was involved in the initial decision or removal of the portable
basketball hoop). The hearing shall be informal in nature, and the rules of
evidence shall not apply. The hearing will not be determinative of, or
adjudicate, any citation relative to any vehicle. After receiving all relevant
evidence, the Hearing Officer shall make a written decision based upon a
preponderance of the evidence as to whether the portable basketball hoop was
properly removed as abandoned property. The owner shall be provided a copy of
such hearing decision.
   (M)   Outdoor cooking in certain areas. It shall be unlawful for any person
to barbeque, grill or engage in any similar outdoor cooking activities in the
front yard, on the public sidewalk or in the front parkway of any residential
property.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2) (Ord. 97-352, passed 12-15-1997; Ord. 06-362, passed 7-
17-2006; Ord. 17-019, passed 7-21-2017; Ord. 17-022, passed 8-3-2017) Penalty,
see §
95.999
§ 95.017 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or maintain the existence of
any nuisance in fact on any property under the control of said person, whether
such nuisance is specifically recognized by this subchapter or not.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.018 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   When a nuisance is created, or in fact exists, notice of same shall be
given to the person who created or caused such nuisance.
   (B)   If such person is unknown, then notice shall be given to the person
occupying the land where said nuisance is located.
   (C)   Notice shall also be given to the person who is listed as the person
who is obligated to pay the general taxes on said property as disclosed by the
tax rolls in the County Collector’s office.
   (D)   (1)   The notice shall be in writing and delivered in person to the
person entitled to notice or sent by registered or certified mail.
      (2)   The notice shall contain a description of the nuisance location and
shall direct that the nuisance be abated within five days after the delivery of
said notice.
   (E)   If said nuisance is not abated within five days, then the Chief of
Police or the Building Commissioner may take the necessary step to abate the
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4)
§ 95.019 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and the Building Commissioner are hereby
authorized to abate any such nuisance after notice as provided above.
   (B)   In the event of any imminent danger to the health and safety of the
village and its citizens, the nuisance may be abated summarily by the Chief of
Police or the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5)
PLANTS AND WEEDS
§ 95.030 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other
weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the village
are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any
such weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
(Prior Code, § 4-10-1) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.031 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, plants or grass, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches anywhere in the village; and such plants or weeds
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-10-2) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.032 REMOVAL NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Works to serve or cause
to be served a notice upon the owner or occupant of premises on which weeds or
plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this subchapter
and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten days.
(Prior Code, § 4-10-3)
§ 95.033 ABATEMENT; COSTS TO OWNER.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days after
such notice, the Foreperson of the village may proceed to abate such nuisance,
keeping an account of the expense of the abatement and such expenses shall be
charged to and paid by such owner or occupant. After the abatement of the
nuisance provided for above, the Superintendent of Public Works shall notify
the owner of same by causing notice to be served upon the owner. Such notice
shall also inform the owner that the subject property shall thereafter be
placed upon a regularly scheduled maintenance program to ensure the continued
abatement of such nuisance and further informing the owner that such abatement
shall continue until the owner arranges to abate the nuisance by other means.
All costs for this maintenance schedule shall be assessed to the owner of the
premises and shall be a lien thereon.
(Prior Code, § 4-10-4) (Ord. 11-548, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 95.034 WEED CUTTING LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for weed cutting shall be a lien upon the premises as provided
by statute. Whenever a bill for weed cutting remains unpaid 60 days after it
has been rendered, the Village Clerk may file with the county’s Recorder of
Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice
that the village claims a lien for this amount. Notice of the bill for weed
cutting shall be mailed to the owner of the premises whenever such bill remains
unpaid for a period of 60 days after it has been rendered.
   (B)   The failure of the Village Clerk to record such lien claim or to mail
such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills for weed cutting as provided
for in §
95.035 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-10-5)
§ 95.035 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be
sold for non-payment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied
to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens.
   (B)   Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the
village.
   (C)   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction
over such matters against any property for which a bill for weed cutting has
remained unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 4-10-6)
§ 95.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
95.015 through
95.019 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500, for
each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a nuisance occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-6)
      (2)   Any person found to be in violation of the provisions of §
95.016(L) of this chapter shall:
         (a)   For the first offense, receive a written warning to cease and
desist form using the portable basketball hoops on public property or in the
public way and notice that subsequent offenses include citations and fines,
and/or confiscation of the portable basketball hoops. The village reserves the
right to move said portable property onto the property of the indicated owner;
         (b)   For the second offense, receive a citation and be subject to a
fine for violations of the provisions of §
95.016(L) of this chapter of not less than $100, nor more than $250, and a
written warning that subsequent violations may result in the portable
basketball hoop being impounded. The village reserves the right to move said
portable property onto the property of the indicated owner; and
         (c)   For the third offense, receive a citation and be subject to a
fine of not less than $100, nor more than $250, and the portable basketball
hoop shall be immediately impounded pending the hearing and adjudication of the
citation and payment of all fines imposed by the adjudicator or Hearing
Officer. Violation of §
95.016(L) of this chapter or an order or judgment of the Municipal Court
concerning the status of the basketball hoop as a nuisance constitutes a civil
infraction. Each day that a violation exists constitutes a separate infraction.
The penalties imposed by this division (B) are in addition to and not in lieu
of any other lawful remedies available to the village.
   (C)   (1)   Except as stated in division (C)(2) below, any person violating
any provision of §§
95.030 through
95.035 of this chapter shall be fined as set forth below:
         (a)   First offense: $500;
         (b)   Second offense: $750; and
         (c)   Third and subsequent offenses: $1,000.
      (2)   (a)   Except as stated in division (C)(1) above, any person who
owns, occupies or controls the foliage parcels (as defined herein below) and
violates any provision of §§
95.030 through
95.035 of this chapter shall be fined as set forth below:
            1.   First offense: $2,500;
            2.   Second offense: $5,000;
            3.   Third offense: $10,000;
            4.   Fourth and subsequent offenses: $10,000.
         (b)   For this division (C)(2), the following parcels are deemed
foliage parcels (collectively to as the “foliage parcels”):
            1.   200 E. 14400 to 300 E. 14400;
            2.   300 E. 14400 to 400 E. 14400;
            3.   14400 Indiana to 14500 Indiana;
            4.   14500 Indiana to 14600 Indiana;
            5.   14600 Indiana to 14700 Indiana;
            6.   14700 Indiana to 14800 Indiana;
            7.   14800 Indiana to 14900 Indiana;
            8.   14620 Harvard Street - PIN: 29-09-105-127-0000;
            9.   14622 Harvard Street - PIN: 29-09-105-128-0000;
            10.   14626 Harvard Street - PIN: 29-09-105-129-0000;
            11.   14626 Harvard Street - PIN: 29-09-105-130-0000;
            12.   14630 Harvard Street - PIN: 29-09-105-131-0000;
            13.   14632 Harvard Street - PIN: 29-09-105-132-0000;
            14.   14634 Harvard Street - PIN: 29-09-105-133-0000;
            15.   14636 Harvard Street - PIN: 29-09-105-134-0000;
            16.   14614 Maple Lane - PIN: 29-09-105-014-0000;
            17.   14616 Maple Lane - PIN: 29-09-105-015-0000;
            18.   14618 Maple Lane - PIN: 29-09-105-016-0000;
            19.   14620 Maple Lane - PIN: 29-09-105-017-0000;
            20.   14624 Maple Lane - PIN: 29-09-105-018-0000;
            21.   14626 Maple Lane - PIN: 29-09-105-019-0000;
            22.   14627 Maple Lane - PIN: 29-09-105-020-0000;
            23.   14628 Maple Lane - PIN: 29-09-105-021-0000;
            24.   14630 Maple Lane - PIN: 29-09-105-022-0000;
            25.   396 E. 142nd Street - PIN: 29-03-109-024-0000;
            26.   14200 Jackson Street - PIN: 29-03-301-002-0000;
            27.   14700 Lakeside Avenue - PIN: 29-10-101-009-0000;
            28.   394 E. 142nd Street PIN: 29-03-109-025-0000;
            29.   PIN: 29-03-502-004-0000 (no address);
            30.   PIN: 29-03-501-002-0000 (no address); and
            31.   PIN: 29-03-501-016-0000 (no address).
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which such nuisance continues unabated after ten days from receipt of
notice.
(Prior Code, § 4-10-7)
(Ord. 97-352, passed 12-15-1997; Ord. 06-362, passed 7-17-2006; Ord. 21-005,
passed 8-2-2021; Ord. 23-008, passed 7-17-2023; Ord. 23-009, passed 8-7-2023)
CHAPTER 96: SECURITY AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
96.001   Definitions
   
96.002   Permit requirement
   
96.003   General requirements and prohibitions
   
96.004   Service charges for false alarms
   
96.005   Suspension of alarm permits and disconnection of alarm systems
   
96.006   Limitation of village’s responsibility
   
96.007   Exemption of village buildings
 
   
96.999   Penalty
§ 96.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SUBSCRIBER. The owner, tenant or other agents of the property where an
alarm system is installed.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any equipment or device initiating a request for emergency
response.
   CENTRAL STATION. An independent alarm monitoring location which is regulated
by the state which relays requests for emergency response to the Police or Fire
Departments.
   FALSE ALARM. An activation of an alarm system due to mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation, improper operation or negligence of an
alarm subscriber which causes an alarm signal to be received and responded to
by either the Police or Fire Departments, other than a non-controllable alarm.
   LOCAL ALARM. Any alarm system that activates an audible or visual display
without transmitting the alarm to a central station or to the Police or Fire
Departments.
   NON-CONTROLLABLE ALARM. An activation of alarm system caused by adverse
weather conditions, telephone line problems or any other events over which the
alarm company and its subscribers have no control.
(Ord. 90-133, passed 10-16-1990)
§ 96.002 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   All alarm systems operating within the village must have an annual
alarm permit issued by the village.
   (B)   Application for initial, alarm permit shall be on the form prescribed
by the Chief of Police and Billing Department and shall include all information
deemed necessary for the administration of this chapter. A $25 processing fee
will be charged for the initial permit; a $10 annual renewal fee shall be
payable every May 1 thereafter. The annual renewal fee shall be waived for any
alarm subscriber upon presentation of a valid village business license paid for
the current year.
   (C)   Upon initial application, the proposed alarm system shall be inspected
by the Building Department and Electrical Inspector. In addition, to the alarm
permit fee, the applicant shall be responsible for any electrical inspection
permit fees.
   (D)   All properties in the village, which have alarm systems as of the
effective date of this chapter, shall have 180 days from the effective date
hereof within which to obtain inspection of their alarm systems.
   (E)   A new permit shall be required upon a change of owner or tenant of the
property within which the alarm system has been installed.
   (F)   Any change to the information listed on the original application for
alarm permit shall be reported in writing to the Police Department within five
working days.
(Ord. 90-133, passed 10-16-1990)
§ 96.003 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   All alarm system equipment must be approved by a nationally recognized
testing or certifying laboratory or agency.
   (B)   All alarm systems may be connected to a central station or, in the
case of commercial or bank alarms, may be connected directly to the Police
Department alarm board, or else they may function as a local alarm. Any alarm
system having an outside ringer, siren, buzzer or similar noise-making device
or any visual signal, either of which is designed to be detected by the public
outside of the structure where the alarm is installed, must be equipped with an
automatic shut-off device which will cause the alarm to shut off no later than
15 minutes after it activates. This restriction shall not apply to fire alarm
systems.
   (C)   No alarm system utilizing, signaling devices that automatically select
a telephone line of the Police or Fire Departments, and then reproduce any pre-
recorded message which initiates a request for emergency response from the
Police or Fire Departments, shall be permitted.
   (D)   No alarm system may utilize the emergency 9-1-1 telephone lines into
the Police and Fire Departments.
   (E)   No alarm shall be manually activated for reasons other than a robbery
or burglary in progress or having just occurred, a medical or fire emergency or
circumstances indicating a likelihood of death or great bodily harm.
(Ord. 90-133, passed 10-16-1990) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.004 SERVICE CHARGES FOR FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Each alarm system shall be allowed three false alarms in the first
month after installation or upgrading without the levy of a service charge.
Thereafter, each alarm system will be allowed one false alarm per calendar
quarter without service charge.
   (B)   The owner of any system registering false alarms in excess of the
allowances listed above shall be assessed a $50 service fee payable to the
village.
(Ord. 90-133, passed 10-16-1990)
§ 96.005 SUSPENSION OF ALARM PERMITS AND DISCONNECTION OF ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The following constitute grounds for suspension of alarm permits:
      (1)   More than three false alarms in any calendar quarter;
      (2)   Installation, maintenance or operation of an alarm system in
violation of this chapter or any term or condition of the owner’s alarm permit;
      (3)   False information on the permit application; and/or
      (4)   Failure to pay alarm service charges assessed under the terms of
this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   When either the Chief of Police or the Chief of the Fire
Department determines that there are reasonable grounds for revocation of an
alarm permit, the Chief will have a notice of intent to revoke said permit sent
to the alarm subscriber via certified mail. The notice will include the
specific grounds for the intended revocation and will allow seven days to
correct the problem.
      (2)   If no corrective action has been taken by the alarm subscriber at
the end of the seven-day period, the Police or Fire Chief shall revoke the
alarm permit, and so notify the owner.
      (3)   Following the notice of revocation of an alarm permit, any
subscriber shall be entitled to request a hearing before a committee designated
by the Village President. Such committee may be comprised of the members of the
Police or Fire Committees of the Board of Trustees along with such other
members as the President deems appropriate. At such hearing, the subscriber may
present evidence and, upon conclusion of the presentations, the committee shall
sustain, reverse or modify the determination of the Fire or Police Chief. The
committee determination shall be final and binding on all parties.
   (C)   Upon revocation of an alarm permit, the alarm subscriber will
disconnect the alarm system within 24 hours after receipt of a written notice,
via certified mall, of revocation. Any alarm remaining operational after this
24-hour period would be deemed to be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this chapter and the permit holder subject to the penalties described in §
96.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 90-133, passed 10-16-1990) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.006 LIMITATION OF VILLAGE’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing any obligation or
responsibility on the village with respect to the functioning of any alarm
system. Nothing herein shall be construed as imposing on the village any
obligation to provide any particular level of police or fire protection service
to the owner of a system beyond that which the village provides for all of its
citizens.
(Ord. 90-133, passed 10-16-1990)
§ 96.007 EXEMPTION OF VILLAGE BUILDINGS.
   All buildings, locations and other installations owned or operated by the
municipal authorities of the village and equipped with security or fire alarm
systems shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 90-133, passed 10-16-1990)
§ 96.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine in accordance with the provisions of §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 90-133, passed 10-16-1990)
CHAPTER 97: LEAD-BEARING SUBSTANCES
Section
   
97.001   Definitions
   
97.002   Lead-bearing substance use
   
97.003   Maintenance of residential buildings
   
97.004   Toys or furniture containing lead-bearing substance; sale
   
97.005   Objects containing lead-bearing substance; sale
   
97.006   Warning statement
   
97.007   Child care facilities; blood lead level screening for admission
   
97.008   Fees
   
97.009   Inspection of buildings
   
97.010   Procedures upon determination of lead-bearing substance
   
97.011   Manner of abatement of lead hazards
   
97.012   Rules and regulations
   
97.013   Emergency measures
   
97.014   Remedies
   
97.015   Enforcement
 
   
97.999   Penalty
§ 97.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. Any structure used by a child care provider, school or
other facility frequented by children.
   CHILDREN. Persons six years of age and younger.
   DEPARTMENT. The Village of Dolton Department of Housing.
   DWELLING. Any structure all or part of which is designed or used for human
habitation.
   EXPOSED SURFACE. Any interior or exterior surface of a child care facility,
school, dwelling or residential building.
   HOUSING DIRECTOR. The Village of Dolton Director of Housing or an
appropriate designee.
   LEAD HAZARD. A lead-bearing substance that poses a significant health hazard
to humans.
   LEAD POISONING. The condition of having blood lead levels in excess of those
considered safe under applicable regulations promulgated by the Housing
Director.
   LEAD-BEARING SUBSTANCE. Any dust on any surface or in furniture or other
non-permanent elements of the dwelling, child care facility or school and any
paint or other surface coating material containing more than the lead by weight
as established by state law or regulation, and/or that the Housing Director
determines, by regulation, may pose a significant health hazard to humans.
   OWNER. Any person, who alone, jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal title to or a beneficial interest in a land trust or
other entity having legal title to a child care facility, school, dwelling or
residential building with or without accompanying actual possession of the
child care facility, school, dwelling or residential building, and includes any
agent of the owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the
estate of the owner;
      (2)   Has charge, care or control of or responsibility for a child care
facility, school, dwelling or residential building; or
      (3)   Has an interest as a purchaser under a real estate installment
contract in a child care facility, dwelling or residential building.
   PERSON. Any one or more natural persons, legal entities, governmental bodies
or combination thereof.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Any room, group of rooms or other interior areas of a
structure designed or used for human habitation; common areas accessible by
inhabitants; and the surrounding property or structures.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 97.002 LEAD-BEARING SUBSTANCE USE.
   No person shall use or apply lead-bearing substances:
   (A)   In or upon any exposed surface of a dwelling or dwelling unit;
   (B)   In or around the exposed surfaces of a residential building, child
care facility, school or other structure frequented by children;
   (C)   In or upon any fixtures or other objects used, installed or located in
or upon any exposed surface of a dwelling or residential building, child care
facility, school or intended to be so used, installed or located and that, in
the ordinary course of use, are accessible to and chewable by children;
   (D)   In or upon any toys, furniture or other articles used by and chewable
by children; and/or
   (E)   Within or upon a residential building or dwelling, child care
facility, school, playground, park or recreational area, or other areas
regularly frequented by children.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.003 MAINTENANCE OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   It is the duty of every owner of a residential building to maintain the
residential building in such a manner so as to prevent the existence of a lead
hazard.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.004 TOYS OR FURNITURE CONTAINING LEAD-BEARING SUBSTANCE; SALE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly sell, have, offer for sale or transfer any
toy or furniture that contains a lead-bearing substance and that, in the
ordinary course of use, is accessible to and chewable by children.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to antique furniture and toys.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.005 OBJECTS CONTAINING LEAD-BEARING SUBSTANCE; SALE.
   No person shall sell or transfer or offer for sale or transfer any fixtures
or other objects intended to be used, installed or located in or upon any
surface of a dwelling or residential building, child care facility or school
that contains a lead-bearing substance and that, in the ordinary course of use,
are accessible to and chewable by children.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.006 WARNING STATEMENT.
   No person, firm or corporation shall have, offer for sale, sell or give away
any lead bearing substance that may be used by the general public unless it
bears the warning statement as prescribed by state law (410 ILCS 45/6) or
federal regulation, as follows:
 
Warning statement.
 
No person, firm or corporation shall have, offer for sale, sell or give away any lead
bearing substance that may be used by the general public unless it bears the warning
statement as prescribed by federal regulation. If no regulation is prescribed the
warning statement shall be as follows: “WARNING - CONTAINS LEAD. DRIED FILM OF THIS
SUBSTANCE MAY BE HARMFUL IF EATEN OR CHEWED. See other cautions on (side or back)
panel. Do not apply on toys, or other children’s articles, furniture or interior, or
exterior exposed surfaces of any residential building or facility that may be occupied
or used by children. KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN.”
 
(a)   The generic term of a product, such as “paint” may be substituted for the word
“substance” in the above labeling.
 
(b)   The placement, conspicuousness and contrast of the above labeling shall be in
accordance with § 191.101 of the regulations promulgated under the provisions of the
Federal Hazardous Substances Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 1261 et seq.).
 
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.007 CHILD CARE FACILITIES; BLOOD LEAD LEVEL SCREENING FOR ADMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   Each day care center, day care home, preschool, nursery school,
kindergarten or other child care facility licensed or approved by the state,
including such programs operated by a public school district, shall include a
requirement that each parent or legal guardian of a child between the ages of
six months through six years provide a statement from a physician or health
care provider that the child has been screened for lead poisoning.
      (2)   This statement must indicate that the screening of the child has
been performed in accordance with applicable criteria mandated by the state’s
Department of Health and/or the Housing Director. This statement shall be
provided prior to admission and subsequently in conjunction with required
physical examinations.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any child to
undergo a blood lead level screening or test whose parent or guardian objects
on the grounds that the screening or test conflicts with his or her religious
beliefs.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.008 FEES.
   (A)   The Housing Department may establish fees according to a reasonable
fee structure to cover the cost of inspections and providing a testing service
for laboratory analysis of blood lead tests and any necessary follow-up.
   (B)   The Housing Director may promulgate rules and regulations for waiving
applicable fees for low-income persons.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 97.009 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   An authorized representative of the village charged with
enforcement of this chapter, upon presentation of the appropriate credentials
to the owner, occupant or his or her representative, may inspect child care
facilities, schools, dwellings and residential buildings at reasonable times,
for the purposes of ascertaining that all surfaces accessible to children are
intact and in good repair, and for purposes of ascertaining the existence of
lead-bearing substances. Such representative may remove samples or objects
necessary for laboratory analysis.
      (2)   If a person entitled to withhold consent to an inspection refuses
to allow inspection, a representative of the prosecuting attorney of the
village may apply for a warrant to permit entry.
   (B)   Annual rental inspections, annual business in sections of childcare
facilities, single- and multiple-family unit turn over inspections, and
inspections upon transfer of ownership, shall include a lead-based paint
inspection of the premises, and no water stamp or occupancy (rental and sale)
permit shall issue unless or until a determination has been made by the Housing
Director that no lead hazards exist and or existing lead-based hazards have
been abated.
   (C)   No work permit shall be issued for rehabilitation of single- and
multiple-family units and/or child care facilities unless a lead-based paint
inspection has been conducted, and a plan for lead abatement has been filed
with and approved by the Housing Department/Building Department (as
applicable), if any.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 97.010 PROCEDURES UPON DETERMINATION OF LEAD-BEARING SUBSTANCE.
   (A)   Upon determination that there is a lead-bearing substance in or upon
any child care facility, school, dwelling or residential building which could
reasonably be hazardous to children, or upon receipt of confirmation that an
individual has a level of lead in his or her blood indicative of lead
poisoning, the village shall, as soon as is practicable, give appropriate
notice to the owner of a child care facility, school, dwelling or dwelling
unit, of the existence and location of a lead hazard.
   (B)   In addition, regardless of whether there has been compliance with the
preceding sentence, the village shall take action as needed to enforce this
chapter, including, as the village or its authorized representative may
determine is appropriate:
      (1)   Providing the owner and occupants with suitable recommendations for
elimination of the problem areas;
      (2)   Notifying the other persons or entities with responsibility for a
child care facility, school, dwelling or dwelling unit of the existence and
location of such substances;
      (3)   Ordering that these substances shall be removed, replaced or
securely and permanently covered within a specified time period and in a manner
prescribed by the Department; and/or
      (4)   Pursuing the remedies provided for in §§
97.013 and
97.014 of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 97.011 MANNER OF ABATEMENT OF LEAD HAZARDS.
   The removal of the lead-bearing substance from the dwelling, residential
building, child care facility or school shall be accomplished in a manner
consistent with all rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter
concerning acceptable and safe methods of lead hazard removal or abatement, and
in a manner which will not endanger the health or well-being of its occupants,
and will result in the safe removal from the premises, and the safe disposition
of flakes, chips, debris, dust and other potentially harmful materials.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 97.012 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Housing Department, in conjunction with the Building Inspector, is
authorized to promulgate reasonable rules and regulations for carrying out the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 97.013 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Housing Director finds that because of a violation of
this chapter, an emergency condition exists requiring immediate action to
protect the health of any person, the Housing Director may issue an emergency
order reciting the existence of the emergency condition and requiring that
necessary actions be taken to meet the emergency.
      (2)   (a)   An emergency order shall be effective immediately, and any
person to whom an emergency order is directed shall comply therewith within the
period of time specified in the order.
         (b)   Any such person shall receive a reasonably prompt notice of his
or her right to a prompt hearing conducted by an administrative law officer of
the Buildings Hearings Division of the Department of Administrative Hearings,
pursuant to the procedures established for such hearings.
      (3)   Pending the hearing, the Housing Director may take whatever steps
are necessary to execute the emergency order when necessary to protect the
health of any person.
   (B)   The entire cost of abatement and relocation actions taken or caused to
be taken by the village, pursuant to this section, shall be recoverable from
each of the persons of the persons responsible for correcting the violations or
giving rise to the emergency conditions by bringing an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction or pursuant to other applicable law.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 97.014 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The prosecuting attorney for the village may seek relief with respect
to any violation of this chapter by filing an appropriate action in a court of
competent jurisdiction or the Department of Administrative Hearings seeking
equitable relief or the penalties contained in §
97.999 of this chapter, or both.
   (B)   Upon determining that any person has not complied with an order
authorized pursuant to this chapter, the Housing Director/Building Inspector
shall issue a ticket and cause such person to appear for a hearing before the
appropriate court/administrative proceedings.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 97.015 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any department of the village may take appropriate action to enforce any of
the provisions of this chapter when a violation of any of the provisions comes
to its attention.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004)
§ 97.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any section of this chapter and any failure to comply
with any order authorized pursuant to this chapter shall be punishable by
incarceration not to exceed six months and by a fine not less than $200, nor
more than $500, for each offense.
   (B)   Each day that such violation or non-compliance exists shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 04-272, passed 10-18-2004)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
      
111.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
      
113.   AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS
      
114.   COMMERCIAL SALES AND SERVICES
      
115.   PERSONAL SALES
      
116.   VEHICLE-RELATED BUSINESSES
      
117.   CONTRACTORS AND BUILDING SERVICES
      
118.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
119.   ADVERTISERS AND ADVERTISING DISTRIBUTORS
      
120.   FOOD AND FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
121.   HEALTH CARE FACILITIES AND SERVICES
      
122.   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
      
123.   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
      
124.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
125.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.001   Purpose and jurisdiction
   
110.002   Compliance with state and village regulations
   
110.003   Enforcement
   
110.004   Applications for licenses and permits
   
110.005   Indebtedness to the village
   
110.006   Bond requirements
   
110.007   Payment of license and permit fees; refunds
   
110.008   Duplicate licenses; vehicle tags
   
110.009   Approval and issuance of license; signature required
   
110.010   License term; notice of termination
   
110.011   Transfer of license or permit; change of location
   
110.012   Licenses to be posted
   
110.013   Nuisance businesses
   
110.014   Inspections and analyses
   
110.015   Revocation of license or permit
   
110.016   General merchandise and industrial establishments
   
110.017   Miscellaneous businesses
   
110.018   License fee schedule
Public Safety Threat Prevention
   
110.030   Definitions
   
110.031   Unlawful acts
   
110.032   Summary closure order
   
110.033   Notice of summary closure; required
   
110.034   Probable cause hearing
   
110.035   Nuisance abatement hearing
   
110.036   Evidentiary standard
   
110.037   Cost recovery authorized
   
110.038   Right of review
   
110.039   Stay pending review
   
110.040   Construction; effect
   
110.041   Manner of enforcement
   
110.042   Prohibition of conducting business
   
110.043   Tampering with means of closure prohibited
   
110.044   Failure to comply with approved nuisance abatement plan
 
   
110.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.001 PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION.
   Because each commercial, mercantile or industrial establishment located
within the limits of the village is a basic part of, and affects the physical
and economic well-being of the village which necessitates special services from
the village in the form of fire, health and police inspections and services,
and because the health and safety of residents who visit or attend such
commercial, mercantile or industrial establishments may be affected, and
because the health and safety of employees who are employed in these
establishments are affected, it is desirable and necessary that inspections of
these establishments be made in order to ensure full compliance with the
ordinances of the village and the statutes of the state relating to fire,
health, safety and building. This title is deemed to be regulatory in nature
and is designed to provide the means whereby the necessary inspections and
services may be made in order that the public health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the village may be effectively protected and to enable and effect
an accurate record of commercial, mercantile and factory establishments located
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 110.002 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND VILLAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Each licensee shall be required to comply with each and all of the
ordinances of the village and of the statutes of the state and such licensee
shall certify to this in his or her application.
   (B)   No license for the operation of a commercial, mercantile or industrial
establishment shall be issued unless and until the following is determined:
      (1)   The building or premises of the commercial, mercantile or
industrial establishment complies with the provisions and terms of the Building
Code and ordinances relating to buildings;
      (2)   The buying or premises of the commercial, mercantile or industrial
establishment complies with the provisions and terms of the zoning ordinances;
      (3)   The building or premises of the commercial, mercantile or
industrial establishment complies with the fire ordinances and fire
regulations;
      (4)   The building or premises of the commercial, mercantile or
industrial establishment complies with the health ordinances and regulations;
      (5)   The applicant and/or his or her agent are of good business and
moral character;
      (6)   There is proper sanitation and ventilation of all mercantile
establishments where the public is invited so that they may be guarded against
personal injuries and disease;
      (7)   There is proper sanitation and ventilation of all places of
employment to guard against personal injuries and disease;
      (8)   There is proper arrangement and guarding of machinery and the
storing and placing of personal property to guard against personal injuries and
diseases to employees;
      (9)   There is proper preventive action to eliminate and reduce the
danger of personal injuries and diseases to the consumer public as well as to
employees by contact with any poisonous or deleterious materials, dust, vapors,
gases or fumes;
      (10)   All buildings are drained and plumbed in a manner conducive to
healthful and proper sanitary conditions;
      (11)   Adequate exits are provided and maintained;
      (12)   Suitable and proper sanitary washrooms are provided and
maintained;
      (13)   There is an adequate quantity of soap containing bland non-
irritating detergents which effectively can cleanse the skin where appropriate;
      (14)   There is an adequate supply of safe, clean and potable water
satisfactory for drinking purposes dispensed where appropriate and necessary;
      (15)   There is an adequate supply of safe, clean, hot and cold water
where appropriate and necessary;
      (16)   Adequate toilet facilities, properly enclosed are provided; and
      (17)   The premises are sufficiently heated during cold weather.
   (C)   Failure of any officer or employee to make such investigation or to
make a complete and proper investigation shall not be a basis for liability
against said employee or officer or against the village by a person for any
damage or injury since the obligation for compliance with all laws and
regulations rests upon the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 110.003 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the President to enforce this title and to cause
visits and inspections to be made during reasonable hours and as often as
practicable of factories, mercantile establishments, mills, workshops and all
other industrial and commercial establishments in the village where goods,
wares or merchandise are manufactured and stored or purchased or sold at
wholesale or retail.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 110.004 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   Applications for all licenses and permits shall be made in writing on forms
to be prescribed and furnished by the Village Board and shall be submitted to
the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services, unless express
provision to the contrary is made. All such applications shall state thereon
the name and address of the owner or owners and the street and number location
of the business to be licensed. A new application shall be necessary to renew
any license at its expiration. The office of Comptroller and Revenue
Administrative Services shall keep a record of all applications.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) (Ord. 02-189, passed 7-23-2002; Ord. 03-214, passed 4-21-
2003)
§ 110.005 INDEBTEDNESS TO THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEBT. A specific indebtedness, whether known to the village or unknown,
owed to the village or for which the period granted for payment has expired,
including, but not limited to, any and all license fees, permit fees, water tax
fees and any and all other obligations, known or unknown, which are required to
be paid to the village, pursuant to the rules and regulations of municipal code
of the village.
      LICENSE FEE/PERMIT FEE. Those fees required to be paid under any and all
provisions of the municipal code of the village.
      OUTSTANDING PARKING VIOLATION COMPLAINT. A parking ticket, notice of
parking violation or parking violation complaint on which no payment has been
made or appearance filed in the Circuit Court of the county within the time
specified on the complaint.
      UNKNOWN OBLIGATIONS. Those obligations due the village, knowledge of
which is solely in the possession of the debtor/obligor.
      WATER TAX FEE. Those sums of money due pursuant to the provisions of the
municipal code of the village for water and sewer service.
   (B)   Every person applying for a license or permit shall file an affidavit
with the Village Clerk, or other appropriate village official, disclosing any
and all debts owed by the applicant to the village and any outstanding parking
violation complaints issued to any vehicle, owned by the applicant. (A copy of
said affidavit is attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a part
hereof.)
   (C)   No license or permit shall be issued to any person, corporate entity
or other business activity indebted to the village or has acquired any
outstanding parking violation complaints, unless and until such person,
corporate entity or other business activity pays to the village all
indebtedness then due from such person, corporate entity or other business and
either pays the fines for each parking violation or files an appearance with
the Circuit Court of the county to contest the parking violation alleged in
each complaint, or by authority of the village, discharges all such
indebtedness in accordance with the terms and conditions fixed by the Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (C) above, the village may
issue a license to a person, corporate entity or other business who owes a debt
to the village if the Village Clerk determines that:
      (1)   The applicant has entered into an agreement with the village or
other appropriate village representative, for the payment of all debts owed the
village and such applicant is in compliance with the agreement;
      (2)   The applicant is contesting liability for or the amount of debt in
a pending administrative or judicial proceedings; or
      (3)   The applicant has filed a petition in bankruptcy and the debts owed
to the village are dischargeable in bankruptcy.
(Ord. 91-158, passed 6-25-1991)
§ 110.006 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   In case a bond is required for the issuance of any license, such bond must
be a surety company bond to be approved by the Village Attorney and must be
filed with the Village Clerk before the license is issued. The President may,
in any case, require a bond from the licensee where deemed necessary to protect
the village. Such bond shall in no event be less than the sum of $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 110.007 PAYMENT OF LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES; REFUNDS.
   (A)   The fees required for licenses and permits must be paid at the time
the application is made. Except as may be otherwise provided, all license fees
shall become a part of the Corporate Fund. Any new applicant who commences his
or her business or occupation after the first one-half of the fiscal year shall
pay one-half of the license fee to cover the balance of the fiscal year.
   (B)   In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license fee, or
part thereof, by reason of the death of the licensee, or by reason of non-use
of the license, or by reason of a change of location or occupation of such
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)
§ 110.008 DUPLICATE LICENSES; VEHICLE TAGS.
   (A)   Duplicate licenses. In case of the loss or destruction of any license
issued by the village, a duplicate thereof may be issued to the licensee by the
office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services upon satisfactory
evidence of such loss or destruction being filed with the office of Comptroller
and Revenue Administrative Services and the payment to the village of $1 for
such duplicate.
   (B)   Vehicle tags. Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis of a
license fee, the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services
shall furnish each licensee with a tag or sticker for each vehicle covered by
the license, and such tag or sticker shall be posted in a conspicuous place on
each such vehicle while it is in use.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7) (Ord. 02-189, passed 7-23-2002; Ord. 03-214, passed 4-21-
2003)
§ 110.009 APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; SIGNATURE REQUIRED.
   Except as may otherwise be specifically provided, licenses shall be granted
and signed by the Village President and issued by the office of Comptroller and
Revenue Administrative Services. Any application may be ordered by the
President or the Village Board to be presented to and approved by such Board
before issuance or approval of the license, and the Board may overrule the
decision of the President in reference to any application for license.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8) (Ord. 03-214, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 110.010 LICENSE TERM; NOTICE OF TERMINATION.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year
of the village where no provision to the contrary is made. The office of
Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services shall mail to all licensees of
the village a statement of the time of expiration of the license held by the
licensees, if an annual one, three weeks prior to the date of such expiration;
provided that, a failure to send out such notice or the failure of the licensee
to receive it shall not excuse the licensee from a failure to obtain a new
license or a renewal thereof, nor shall it be a defense in an action for
operation without a license.
   (B)   If a license is issued for a period in excess of one month, it shall
be the duty of the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services
from ten to 20 days prior to the termination of the license period, to cause a
written notice to be mailed to each licensee, stating that the new license will
be required on the day following expiration of its existing license and stating
also the amount of the license fee and the penalty for failure to procure a
license in accordance with the provisions of the ordinances of the village
governing the issuance of such license; provided, however, that, failure on the
part of the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services to cause
such notice to be mailed to any such licensee shall not waive the requirement
that a license be procured.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9) (Ord. 02-189, passed 7-23-2002; Ord. 03-214, passed 4-21-
2003)
§ 110.011 TRANSFER OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   No license or permit shall be transferred from one person to another.
   (B)   However, the location of any licensed business or occupation, or of
any permitted act, may be changed; provided, ten days’ notice thereof is given
to the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services in the absence
of any provision to the contrary and provided the building and zoning
requirements of the village are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10) (Ord. 02-189, passed 7-23-2002; Ord. 03-214, passed 4-
21-2003)
§ 110.012 LICENSES TO BE POSTED.
   Every license granted for the purpose of conducting any business or
occupation required by ordinance to be licensed and which designates the
particular room, store or office, or place in which such business or license is
to be conducted shall be posted at all times in a conspicuous place so that the
same may easily be seen upon the wall of the principal room or office of the
store or place in which such licensed business or occupation is carried on;
and, when such license shall have expired, it shall be removed from such place
in which it has been posted and no license which is not in force and effect
shall be permitted to remain posted upon the wall or upon any part of any room,
store, office or place of business after the period of such license has
expired.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11)
§ 110.013 NUISANCE BUSINESSES.
   No business shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to a nuisance in
fact.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 110.014 INSPECTIONS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation is made, it shall be the
duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected to
admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee
of the village who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any
reasonable time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the village whose
business is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or
employee of the village requesting the same, sufficient samples of such
material or commodity for such analysis upon request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the President,
by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees, may revoke the license of any
licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the village who refuses to
permit any such officer or employee, while in the performance of his or her
duty, to make such inspection; provided that, no license shall be revoked for
such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge
of the premises, in the name of the village, stating that such inspection or
sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the
sample.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-13)
§ 110.015 REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the President and
Board of Trustees at any time during the life of such license or permit for any
violation by the licensee of the ordinance provisions relating to the license
or permit, the subject matter of the license or to the premises occupied. Such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-14)
§ 110.016 GENERAL MERCHANDISE AND INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EMPLOYEE. A person shall be considered an employee if he or she is
scheduled to work 20 or more hours per week and 20 or more weeks per year.
      GENERAL MERCHANDISE. Any established place of business where articles of
commerce are offered for sale at retail, such articles to include items of
hardware, auto accessories, camera supplies, clothing, drug items, small
electrical appliances, sporting goods, ceramics and to include those items
customarily sold in groceries or markets, as defined in this code. In the event
such a business establishment shall qualify as a bakery or florist, as defined
in this code, an additional fee as set forth in §
110.018(B) of this chapter shall be paid. Additional fees shall also be paid
for cigarettes, vending machines and alcoholic liquor sales as set forth in §
110.018(B) of this code or ordinances.
      INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS. Includes all manufacturing establishments,
factories, foundries, machine shops, fabricating or assembly shops, furnace
maintenance shops, paint spray shops, sheet metal shops and any place where
products or parts of products are manufactured, altered, processed or repaired.
   (B)   Licenses required. No person shall operate a general merchandise store
or an industrial establishment within the village without first having obtained
a license to do so from the Village Clerk.
   (C)   License fees. An annual license fee shall be paid by each applicant
based on the number of employees. The annual license fee for such businesses
shall be established by ordinance as set forth in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Additional provisions for industrial establishments.
      (1)   Sanitary and safety requirements.
         (a)   No owner, proprietor, lessee, manager or superintendent of any
industrial establishment where workers are employed for wages shall cause,
permit or allow the same or any portion of such industrial establishment to be
overcrowded or inadequate, faulty or insufficient in respect of light,
ventilation, heat or cleanliness.
         (b)   All such places shall be kept in a clean condition, free from
the effluvia of a sewer, drain or other nuisance; also free, as far as
practicable, from all gases, vapors, dust or other impurities generated by
manufacturing processes or otherwise which are injurious to health.
         (c)   Sufficient and separate water closets shall be provided for male
and female employees and such water closet compartments shall be properly
ventilated.
      (2)   Inspections. The President shall have the power to inspect or cause
to be inspected all such places of employment or service within the village as
often as he or she shall deem necessary to see that the provisions of this
section are complied with and, if such premises are found to be in an
unsanitary or unsafe condition, he or she shall require such alterations and
arrangements to be made as may be necessary for the health and safety of the
employees pursuant to the terms of this section and shall cause the Fire Chief
to direct the Bureau of Fire Prevention to see that an inspection of the
premises is made to determine whether the fire regulations of this code of
ordinances applicable thereto have been complied with, as well as other
provisions of this code of ordinances, and such laws as may be in force
concerning health and sanitary measures.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-15) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 110.017 MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Application for licenses. Applications for licenses for the businesses
as set forth in §
110.018(A) of this chapter shall be made to the Village Clerk on forms to be
provided.
   (B)   License fees. No person shall engage in any of the occupations listed
in §
110.018(A) of this chapter or operate any of said described facilities without
having first paid the applicable annual license fee or fees set forth in §
110.018(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-16)
§ 110.018 LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   License fees for miscellaneous businesses. The following annual
license fees shall apply:
Business Activity Fee
Business Activity                             Fee
Ambulance and medical supplies                $200
Animal hospital                               $150
Antique sales                                 $70
Arts and frames                               $70
Auction house                                 $100
Auto wash                                     $70
Auto/truck painting                           $150
Auto and truck parts and accessories          $100
Auto and truck repair center                  $150
Bait shop (bait only)                         $70
Bakery                                        $100
Bank and savings and loan                     $200
Barber and beauty shop                        $100
Bedding store                                 $70
Bedspread world and fabrics                   $70
Bicycle shop                                  $100
Bill posters and sign posters                 $30
Billiard and pool hall                        $100
   Billiard and pool hall, each table      $50
Bottled gas distributor and welding shop      $200
Bowling alley, each lane                      $50
Bus operating company                         $220
C.P.A.                                        $150
Cabinet making                                $110
Camera and photo supply store                 $125
Carry-out                                     $70
Carnival and amusements                       $300
Carpet shop                                   $70
Caterer                                       $70
Cigarette, cigar and tobacco dealer           $100
Clothing store                                $100
Coal and fuel dealer                          $100
Concession stands                             $100
Contractor’s license                        $100
Currency exchange                             $150
Day care/nursery                              $70
Delicatessen                                  $70
Detective agency                              $70
Dispensary, medical                           $100
Driving school                                $70
Drugstore                                     $325
Dry cleaners retail store                     $100
Dry cleaning, coin-operated machines each     $30
Electrical/appliance store                    $70
Employment agency                             $100
Exhibition hall                               $300
Exterminator                                  $70
Florist                                       $100
Food delivery trucks                          $100
Food vending machines                         $70
Furniture store                               $250
Gallery art                                   $70
Garbage and scavenger service                 $300
Gas station                                   $300
Gas station, per nozzle                       $30
General store                                 $75
   2 employees                             $75
   3-5 employees                           $180
   6-10 employees                          $300
   Over 10 employees                       $400
Gift shop                                     $70
Glass (mirrors or related products)           $70
Grinding shop                                 $70
Grocery store/market                          $70
   2 employees                          $70
   3-5 employees                           $110
   6-10 employees                          $175
Guns, firearms, ammunition                    $1,100
Hall (banquet)                                $70
Hardware store                                $150
Health club/exercise club                     $100
Hobby and collectibles                        $70
Home improvement sales and service            $110
Hotel/motel, each unit                        $30
House movers and wreckers                     $100
Ice cream, candy and nut store                $100
Ice dealers                                   $60
Ice vending machine                           $20
Industrial shop                               $75
   Less than 2 employees                   $75
   3-10 employees                          $150
   11-25 employees                         $200
   26-100 employees                        $300
   Over 100 employees                      $400
Jewelry store                                 $70
Junk dealer, plus each vehicle used           $150
Junk dealer/auto wrecker                      $165
Karate school                                 $70
Kennel and pet store                          $100
Laboratory research                           $70
Laundromat/self-service laundry               $100
Laundromat/self-service laundry, each machine $10
Lawn and garden supplies, landscaping         $200
Limousine service                             $125
Liquor license club                           $500
Liquor license hotel/motel                    $5,000
Liquor license, municipally owned             $1,200
Liquor license, restaurant                    $1,200
Liquor license, sales only                    $1,200
Liquor license special event
   Up to 500 persons                       $250
   Over 500 persons                        $500
Liquor license, tavern                        $1,500
Lumber store                                  $150
Marina                                        $300
Marine sales and service                      $150
Music and dance studio                        $100
Musical instruments sales and repair          $110
Nail salon                                    $85
Newspaper agency                              $100
Nursing and senior homes                      $150
Nutrition store                               $100
Optical store                                 $100
Outdoor advertisers                           $150
Paint and wallpaper store                     $100
Parking lots                                  $40
Pet grooming                                  $100
Photo mart                                    $100
Photography studio                            $100
Printing shop                                 $100
Rent-a-car                                    $100
Restaurant
   1-25 seating                            $200
   Over 25 seating                         $350
Sales office                                  $100
Secondhand store                              $70
   3-5 employees                           $140
   Over 5 employees                        $200
Shoe repair                                   $100
Shoe store                                    $250
Soccer and tennis club                        $100
Sporting goods                                $100
Stereo shop and sales                         $100
Tailor and dressmaking shop                   $100
Tanning salon                                 $100
Tattoo parlor                                 $100
Taxicab, each cab                             $100
Tile store                                    $100
Towing company                                $100
Trailer and boat company                      $100
Travel agency                                 $100
Trucking terminal                             $350
Tuxedo rental store                           $70
Undertaker                                    $150
Used car lot                                  $200
Variety store                                 $70
Vehicle/rail transfer facility                $1,100
Video store                                   $100
Warehouse                                     $500
Warehouse, mini, per unit                     $50
 
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-1)
   (B)   License fees for coded businesses. The following fee schedule is
established for coded businesses.
Business Activity Fee
Business Activity                                                               Fee
Amusements
   Athletic exhibitions, per day                                             $30
   Billiard and pool halls, each table                                       $40
   Bowling alleys, each alley                                                $30
   Coin-operated music devices                                               $60
   Exhibition halls and carnivals and amusements, minimum fee*               $250
   *   —License fees on all per day events shall be $250 for events with less than 500
persons in attendance and $500 for events with attendance over 500 persons.
—A deposit of $200 shall be required on events with less than 300 persons in
attendance per day and a deposit of $500 shall be required for events with over 300
persons in attendance per day. The deposit fees are required in addition to the
license fees set forth above, and the deposit fees shall be refunded, less any costs
and expenses incurred by the village for clean up, damage to village property and
security/police personnel. Upon written request from the licensee for the return of
deposit fees paid, the Village Clerk, in conjunction with the appropriate department
heads, shall determine whether any deposit fees are to be refunded. The Village Clerk
shall then promptly refund any deposit fees, or portions thereof, to the licensee. No
interest shall accrue on deposit fees paid.
—Notice of any amusement event must be given to the Village Clerk not less than 10
days prior to the scheduled event. Failure to: (1) timely notify the Village Clerk, to
obtain the proper license(s) or permit(s); (2) to pay the proper license or permit
fees or deposits, to provide accurate and correct information; and/or to comply with
village ordinances and resolutions as required in the village’s municipal code, shall
result in suspension for a specified period or revocation of the business license or
permit by the Village Clerk and/or suspension of the liquor license by the Liquor
Commissioner. A revocation may be for an indefinite or specified period of time. A
suspension shall be for a specified period of time not to exceed 1 year.
—Not less than 1 police officers shall be present on the premises for every 100
persons in attendance at any event. Any expenses incurred for said personnel for said
personnel shall be at the sole expense of application.
Animal hospitals and kennels                                                    $70
Auctions and auctioneers                                                        $70
Bakery                                                                          $70
Barber or beauty shop                                                           $70
Billposters and sign painters, per year                                         $15
Cigarette, cigar and tobacco dealers                                            $250
   Fee for cigarette/tobacco product vending machines
      1 vending machine per business                                      $125
      Each additional vending machine per business                        $25
Coal and fuel oil dealers                                                       $70
Contractors, registration                                                       $60
Dry cleaning establishments
   Retail                                                                    $70
   Coin-operated dry cleaning machine plants, per year
      Base fee                                                            $15
      Additional fee, per machine                                         $5
Florist                                                                         $70
Food delivery vehicles
   Non-motorized vehicles per year                                           $5
   Motorized vehicles, per year                                              $15
Food vending machines
   $0.01 machine                                                             $5
   $0.05 machine                                                             $15
   $0.10 machine                                                             $20
   Over $0.15 machine                                                        $35
Garbage collectors, scavengers                                                  $275
Gasoline service station
   Per unit                                                                  $20
   Per nozzle                                                                $20
General merchandise
   Not more than 2 employees                                                 $75
   Between 3-5 employees                                                     $180
   Between 6-10 employees                                                    $250
   Over 10 employees                                                         $330
Grocery stores and markets per year
   Not more than 2 employees                                                 $70
   Between 3-5 employees                                                     $110
   Between 6-10 employees                                                    $165
   Over 10 employees                                                         $195
Handbills and sample distributors, per day                                      $2
House movers and wreckers                                                       $70
Ice dealers, per year                                                           $30,
                                                                                plus
   Each vending machine in excess of 1                                       $10
   Each vehicle as may be used in such business in the village for conveying $10
ice for purposes of sale
Ice cream, confectioneries, beverages, candy and nuts                           $70
Industrial establishments
   Not more than 2 employees                                                 $75
   Between 3-10 employees                                                    $110
   Between 11-25 employees                                                   $165
   Between 26-100 employees                                                  $250
   Over 100 employees                                                        $330
Junk dealer and auto wrecker                                                    $165,
                                                                                plus
   For each vehicle used                                                     $60
Junk dealer without store or yard, each vehicle used                            $70
Kennels and pet shops                                                           $70
Laundromats or self-service laundry, each washer and dryer                      $10
Leasing and/or rental management agents                                         $250
Liquor control (Classes A through G license fees due and payable in 2 equal
installments of 1/2 the full amount due on May 1 and November 1 of each year)
   Class A (Tavern)                                                          $1,200
   Class B (Club)                                                            $500
   Class C (Sales only)                                                      $1,200
   Class D (Restaurant)                                                      $1,200
   Class D/Special (Municipally owned premises)                              $1,200
   Classes E and F (Hotel or Motel)                                          $5,000
   Class G                                                                   $1,200
   Class H (not to exceed 4 consecutive days; fee payable per day)
      Day 1                                                               $100
      Day 2 (consecutive)                                                 $25
      Day 3 (consecutive)                                                 $25
      Day 4 (consecutive)                                                 $25
Lumber dealers                                                                  $110
Movers                                                                          $85
Multiple dwelling units, rooming houses, hotels and motels, per dwelling unit   $30
Nursing, convalescent and senior citizen homes                                  $110
Outdoor advertisers, per year, payable on May 1 in each year                    $110
Parking lots, per year                                                          $40
Peddlers, solicitors, itinerant vendors and canvassers                          $85
   Class I peddler                                                           $60
   Class II peddler                                                          $25
   Bond, per peddler                                                         $110
   Itinerant vendor                                                          $15
Pet grooming                                                                    $70
Public garages
   Repair or storage of autos only                                           $70
   Renting, sale, storage or repair of autos                                 $85
   Sale of used autos only                                                   $165
Reducing/exercise salons                                                        $70
Restaurants
   1-25 seating                                                              $165
   26 and up                                                                 $275
Secondhand stores, per year
   Not more than 2 employees                                                 $70
   Between 3-5 employees                                                     $140
   Over 5 employees                                                          $165
Storing of motor vehicles
   10 motor vehicles                                                         $350
   More than 10 motor vehicles, but less than 25                             $750
   More than 25 motor vehicles, but less than 50                             $1,000
   50 or more motor vehicles                                                 $1,200
Taxicabs, each cab                                                              $70
Undertakers                                                                     $135
Vehicle/rail transfer facility
   Less than 100 vehicles per day                                            $1,100
   101-500 vehicles per day                                                  $1,100
   501 or more vehicles per day                                              $1,100
Video terminal gambling license
   Annual fee for video gambling terminal operator’s license               $1,000
   Annual fee for video gambling terminal establishment license              $1,000
   Annual fee for video gambling terminal supplier’s license               $1,000
   Annual fee for each video gambling terminal                               $1,000
Warehouses                                                                      $220
   Mini-warehouse, per unit                                                  $30
 
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-2)
(Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986; Ord. 87-132, passed - -1987; Ord. 88-144,
passed 8-9-1988; Ord. 93-216, passed 7-20-1993; Ord. 96-308, passed 9-3-1996;
Ord. 98-371, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 98-379, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. 99-132, passed
11-1-1999; Ord. 00-137, passed 1-3-2000; Ord. 03-208, passed 4-21-2003; Ord.
07-411, passed 8-6-2007; Ord. 09-467, passed 3-2-2009; Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-
2012; Ord. 15-024, passed 7-6-2015; Ord. 16-005, passed 3-7-2016; Ord. 17-034,
passed 10-2-2017)
PUBLIC SAFETY THREAT PREVENTION
§ 110.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTABLE NUISANCE ABATEMENT PLAN or NUISANCE ABATEMENT PLAN. Any conduct,
action, step or acceptance of conditions that is reasonably calculated to
prevent the reoccurrence of a public safety threat under this subchapter, as
agreed to by the licensee/owner and approved by the village’s Hearing Officer
in consultation with the Chief of Police. An ACCEPTABLE NUISANCE ABATEMENT PLAN
in response to any violent offenses, as defined herein, must include a security
plan with licensed aimed security guards being hired or contracted to perform
security services for the business.
   APPROPRIATE. To effect the summary closure or means of closure means a
police order, sign, lock or other barrier or device intended to seal, secure,
close or otherwise render an establishment or any pail thereof inaccessible to
a person.
   ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   Any premises or place of business licensed or required to be
licensed by law. The term ESTABLISHMENT includes adjacent property.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “adjacent property” means:
         (a)   Any public way located next to an establishment, if such public
way is used by the licensee/owner, patrons or employees of the establishment;
         (b)   Any private property that is located next to an establishment,
if such private property is owned, leased, rented or used by the licensee/
owner; or
         (c)   Any private property separated from an establishment by a public
way and located next to such public way, if such private property is owned,
leased, rented or used by the licensee/owner.
   ESTABLISHMENT’S OPERATING HOURS. Any time while the establishment is open
for business or within one hour or less of the time the establishment is opened
or closed for business.
   LICENSEE/OWNER. The licensee of an establishment licensed under this Code.
If an establishment is not licensed under this code, LICENSEE/OWNER means the
owner of record of the real property in or on which the establishment is
operating.
   PUBLIC SAFETY THREAT. The occurrence of all of the following:
      (1)   A violent offense occurs at an establishment during the
establishment’s operating hours;
      (2)   The violent offense involves acts of the licensee/owner, or its
employees, agents or patrons, or otherwise involves circumstances having a
nexus to the operation of the establishment; and
      (3)   The Chief of Police reasonably determines, based on data or
information in the Chief of Police’s possession, that continued operation of
the establishment presents a danger to the public.
   SUMMARY CLOSURE or SUMMARILY CLOSED. The immediate cessation of all business
activities at an establishment and closure of the establishment.
   VIOLENT OFFENSE. The illegal discharge of a firearm; the killing of a human
being by another; aggravated assault or aggravated battery; criminal sexual
assault; or any other conduct that causes a person to suffer unconsciousness,
severe bruising, severe bleeding, disability or disfigurement.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.031 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any establishment in a manner
that presents a public safety threat. For purposes of this subchapter, a public
safety threat is hereby declared to be a public nuisance subject to abatement
under this section. If a public safety threat occurs at an establishment, a
rebuttable presumption shall exist, for a period of six months after the date
on which the public safety threat occurred, that continued operation of the
establishment presents a danger to the public.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.032 SUMMARY CLOSURE ORDER.
   (A)   When authorized. If the Chief of Police determines that an
establishment presents a public safety threat, the Chief of Police may abate
the threat by ordering the summary closure of the establishment. Except as
otherwise provided in this section, such order shall remain in effect for an
aggregate period of six months as measured from the date on which the public
safety threat occurred; provided, however, that, any summary closure order
issued by the Chief of Police may be lifted by the Chief of Police and the
establishment shall be allowed to reopen, if:
      (1)   It is determined at a probable cause hearing or nuisance abatement
hearing that a public safety threat did not occur; or
      (2)   It is determined at a nuisance abatement hearing that continued
operation of the establishment no longer presents a danger to the public, as
may be evidenced by the submission and implementation of an acceptable nuisance
abatement plan.
   (B)   An acceptable nuisance abatement plan in response to any violent
offenses, as defined herein, must include a security plan with licensed armed
security guards being hired or contracted to perform security services for the
business; provided further that, no summary closure order shall be lifted by
the Chief of Police if the establishment is not properly licensed as required
by law.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.033 NOTICE OF SUMMARY CLOSURE; REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon ordering the summary closure of an establishment, the Chief of
Police, or designee, shall cause a dated notice to be posted in a prominent
place on the establishment informing the licensee/owner of the following facts:
      (1)   The Chief of Police has issued an order requiring the immediate
cessation of all business activities at, and closure of, the establishment;
      (2)   The reason(s) for the summary closure;
      (3)   The licensee/owner’s right to request in writing, within three
business days after notice is posted, a probable cause hearing before the
village’s Hearing Officer to determine whether a public safety threat occurred;
      (4)   If requested in writing, a probable cause hearing shall be
commenced within three business days of receipt of such request;
      (5)   The licensee/owner’s right, at any time during the period of
closure, to seek to resume business activities at the establishment, by
requesting, in writing, a nuisance abatement hearing before the village’s
Hearing Officer to contest whether a public safety threat occurred or to rebut
the Chief of Police’s determination that continued operation of the
establishment presents a danger to the public;
      (6)   If requested in writing, a nuisance abatement hearing shall be
commenced by the village’s Hearing Officer within five business days of receipt
of such request;
      (7)   The name of the person and the address to which a written request
for each hearing should be directed;
      (8)   The consequences of not requesting a hearing; and
      (9)   The owner’s potential liability for three times the cost or expense
incurred by the village in abating a public safety threat under this section.
   (B)   (1)   If a person apparently in control of the establishment is
present at the time the notice is posted at the establishment, a copy of such
notice shall be personally served on such person at that time.
      (2)   In addition, a copy of such notice shall be mailed, by first class
mail to the licensee/owner. If the establishment identified in the notice is
licensed under this code, such copy shall be mailed to the licensee or, if
applicable, to the registered agent or other officer of the licensee, at the
licensee’s business address and, if available, at the licensee’s home address.
If the establishment identified in the notice is not licensed under this code,
such copy shall be mailed to the owner of record as listed with the Recorder of
Deeds, and to the taxpayer of record, of the real property in or on which the
establishment is operating.
      (3)   At the time the establishment is summarily closed, the Chief of
Police shall also post a sign at the establishment notifying the public of the
penalty which shall attach, as set forth in §
110.999 of this chapter, if the summary closure order is violated or if any
posted notice or means used to effect the closure is removed without
authorization.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.034 PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING.
   Within three business days after notice is posted under §
110.033 of this chapter, the licensee/owner of the establishment may request a
probable cause hearing before the village’s Hearing Officer to determine
whether a public safety threat occurred at such establishment. Such request
shall be in writing. Within three business days of receipt of a written request
for a probable cause hearing, the village’s Hearing Officer shall commence such
hearing to determine whether a public safety threat occurred. The decision and
order of the village’s Hearing Officer shall be announced no later than two
business days after the probable cause hearing is completed. If, after a
probable cause hearing, the village’s Hearing Officer determines, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that a public safety threat did occur, the
village’s Hearing Officer shall enter an order authorizing continued closure of
the establishment during the interim period prior to expiration of the
aggregate six month period. If, after the probable cause hearing, the village’s
Hearing Officer determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that a public
safety threat did not occur, the village’s Hearing Officer shall enter an order
lifting the summary closure order and business operations at the establishment
shall be allowed to resume during the interim period prior to expiration of the
aggregate six-month period. If, after notice is given to the licensee/owner in
accordance with §
110.033 of this chapter, the licensee/owner fails to request a probable cause
hearing in a timely manner, or requests a probable cause hearing, but fails to
appear at the hearing, the village’s Hearing Officer shall enter a default
order in favor of the village authorizing continued closure of the
establishment during the interim period prior to expiration of the aggregate
six-month period. Upon entry of any order under this subsection, the village’s
Hearing Officer shall notify the Chief of Police, who shall take appropriate
steps to effect the village’s Hearing Officer’s order without delay.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.035 NUISANCE ABATEMENT HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   At any time during the interim period prior to expiration of the
aggregate six-month period, the licensee/owner may seek to have the summary
closure order lifted by the village’s Hearing Officer by:
         (a)   Requesting, in writing, a nuisance abatement hearing under this
section; and
         (b)   Showing, at such hearing, that there is reasonable cause to
believe that continued operation of the establishment no longer presents a
danger to the public, as may be evidenced by the submission and implementation
of an acceptable nuisance abatement plan.
      (2)   At such hearing, the licensee/owner may also contest whether a
public safety threat occurred at the establishment unless it was previously
determined at a probable cause hearing that such public safety threat did
occur.
   (B)   Within five business days of receipt of a written request for a
nuisance abatement hearing, the village’s Hearing Officer shall commence such
hearing. The decision and order of the village’s Hearing Officer shall be
announced no later than five business days after the nuisance abatement hearing
is completed. If, after the nuisance abatement hearing, the village’s Hearing
Officer determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that a public safety
threat did occur and that continued operation of the establishment presents a
danger to the public, the village’s Hearing Officer shall enter an order
authorizing continued closure of the establishment during the interim period
prior to expiration of the aggregate six-month period. If, after the nuisance
abatement hearing, the village’s Hearing Officer determines, by a preponderance
of the evidence, that a public safety threat did not occur or that continued
operation of the establishment no longer presents a danger to the public, as
may be evidenced by the submission and implementation of an acceptable nuisance
abatement plan, the village’s Hearing Officer shall enter an order lifting the
summary closure order, in which case the establishment shall be allowed to
reopen prior to expiration of the aggregate six-month period.
   (C)   If, at any time after an acceptable nuisance abatement plan is
implemented at the establishment governed by such plan, the licensee/owner
fails to comply with the plan or any part thereof or another violent offense
occurs at the establishment, the Chief of Police may reinstate the summary
closure order in accordance with the notice and hearing requirements of this
section. In such case, the establishment shall remain closed for an additional
aggregate period of six months, as measured from the date that the village
acquired knowledge of the licensee’s noncompliance with the nuisance abatement
plan or any part thereof or from the date of the occurrence of another violent
offense, as applicable, unless:
      (1)   It is determined at a probable cause hearing or nuisance abatement
hearing that the licensee/owner was in full compliance with the nuisance
abatement plan and all parts thereof or that another violent offense did not
occur at the establishment, as applicable; or
      (2)   It is determined at a nuisance abatement hearing that continued
operation of the establishment does not present a danger to the public, as may
be evidenced by the submission of a modified nuisance abatement plan, approved
by the village’s Hearing Officer and implemented by the owner/licensee,
containing new or additional reasonable and warranted measures capable of
abating a nuisance under this section.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.036 EVIDENTIARY STANDARD.
   At any hearing conducted under this subchapter, any evidence on which a
reasonably prudent person would rely may be considered without regard to the
formal or technical rules of evidence, and the village’s Hearing Officer may
rely upon written official reports, affidavits and other business records
submitted by police officers or other authorized village officials or village
employees to determine whether a public safety threat occurred; provided,
however, that, only evidence reasonably necessary to demonstrate the existence
or absence of elements which must be considered when determining whether a
public safety threat occurred shall be heard.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.037 COST RECOVERY AUTHORIZED.
   An amount equal to three times the cost or expense incurred by the village
in abating a public safety threat under this subchapter may be recovered by the
village in an appropriate legal action.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.038 RIGHT OF REVIEW.
   Any order of the village’s Hearing Officer issued under this section may be
appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction or as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.039 STAY PENDING REVIEW.
   No summary closure order issued by the Chief of Police under §
110.032 of this chapter, or order of closure issued by the village’s Hearing
Officer under §§
110.034 and
110.035 of this chapter, shall be considered to a be a suspension or revocation
of a liquor license subject to review by the License Appeal Commission under
the Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended. Nor shall any such order be subject to the automatic stay
provision set forth in § 7-9 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.040 CONSTRUCTION; EFFECT.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
   (A)   Prohibit the village’s Hearing Officer from taking additional action
as allowed under the village code;
   (B)   Effect the status of any ongoing village prosecution or other action
involving such licensee or establishment, including, but not limited to, any
ongoing license suspension or revocation hearing under this code;
   (C)   Prevent the Chief of Police from closing any establishment for
purposes of conducting an investigation of a crime scene or for any other
reason authorized by law;
   (D)   Prevent the arrest and prosecution of any person for operating a
business or occupation without a license;
   (E)   Prevent the arrest and prosecution of any person for operating a
business or occupation in violation of any closure order;
   (F)   Constitute an act of possession, ownership or control by the village
over the closed premises; or
   (G)   Deny common law right to anyone to abate a nuisance.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.041 MANNER OF ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized to use appropriate means io effect
the summary closure of an establishment. The summary closure authorized by this
section shall not be executed in a manner that prevents legally required
ingress to or egress from the residential occupancy portion of a building.
Access to the closed establishment by the licensee/owner and other persons able
to prove an interest in the establishment may be permitted for the purposes of
maintaining the establishment in safe and code-compliant condition, correcting
code violations, removing items from the closed establishment and any other
purpose authorized in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the
Chief of Police. Entry to the closed establishment by government inspectors and
investigators acting within the scope of their employment shall be permitted.
No means used to close an establishment pursuant to this subchapter shall be
removed by the Chief of Police unless the village’s Hearing Officer or a court
of competent jurisdiction orders the removal of such means.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, any period of time during which the
means used to close an establishment are temporarily removed pursuant to a
court order shall not be included in the calculation of the required closure
period.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.042 PROHIBITION OF CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any business activity at, or
to knowingly frequent, any establishment that has been summarily closed
pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.043 TAMPERING WITH MEANS OF CLOSURE PROHIBITED.
   Except as authorized pursuant to §
110.030 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to damage, tamper
with, destroy or remove, or to cause to be damaged, tampered with, destroyed or
removed, any means of closure used to summarily close an establishment pursuant
to §
110.030 of this chapter or any notice of summary closure or closure sign
affixed at such establishment pursuant to §
110.033 of this chapter.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 110.044 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH APPROVED NUISANCE ABATEMENT PLAN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any nuisance
abatement plan or part thereof approved or subsequently modified under §
110.035 of this chapter.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty provided by law, any person who
violates §
110.042 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $750 and may be subject to
further criminal or other prosecution. Each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty provided by law, any person who
violates §
110.043 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $750 and may be subject to
further criminal or other prosecution. Each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (3)   In addition to any other penalty provided by law, which may include
license suspension or revocation, any person who violates §
110.044 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $750. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 22-008, passed 11-7-2022)
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Definitions
   
111.002   Liquor Control Commissioner
   
111.003   License required
   
111.004   Application for license
   
111.005   Restrictions on issuance of license
   
111.006   Classification of licenses; fees
   
111.007   Number of licenses issued
   
111.008   Term of license
   
111.009   Payment and disposition of license fees
   
111.010   Renewal of licenses
   
111.011   Transfer of license
   
111.012   Building and location restrictions
   
111.013   Conditions of license
   
111.014   Sanitary conditions
   
111.015   Minors; sale to certain persons
   
111.016   Possession of liquor in public places
   
111.017   Revocation of licenses; appeals; fines
   
111.018   Record of licenses and revocations
   
111.019   BASSET program
   
111.020   Parental responsibility
   
111.021   Notices; signage
   
111.022   Special event liquor license
Bring Your Own Alcohol Establishments
   
111.035   Definition
   
111.036   Prohibition
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases as defined in
235 ILCS 5/1-3.01 through 5/1-3.38 as now or hereafter amended shall have the
meanings and construction in this chapter as is given in said paragraphs.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 111.002 LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The President of the Board of Trustees shall be Liquor Control Commissioner
and shall be charged with the administration of this chapter.
   (A)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Said President, as Liquor Control Commissioner, shall have the
power:
         (a)   To grant and revoke for cause all licenses issued pursuant to
this chapter;
         (b)   To enter, or to authorize any law enforcing official to enter,
at any time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of
the provisions of this chapter are being violated and at such time to examine
the premises of the licensee;
         (c)   To receive complaint from any citizen of the village that any of
the provisions of this chapter have been or are being violated and to take such
actions as to him or her shall seem necessary and advisable; and
         (d)   To receive license fees and pay the same forthwith to the
Village Treasurer.
      (2)   (a)   The President, as Liquor Control Commissioner, shall have the
right to examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any such
applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for his or her
information in the performance of his or her duties, and for such purpose to
issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state.
         (b)   For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by
the Liquor Control Commissioner under this section, he or she may authorize his
or her agent to act on his or her behalf.
   (B)   Assistants. The President, as Liquor Control Commissioner, may appoint
a person or persons to assist him or her in the exercise of the powers and the
performance of his or her duties as such Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (C)   Compensation. The Liquor Control Commissioner shall receive
compensation in the sum of $600 per year payable in 26 equal installments.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2)
§ 111.003 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at retail any
alcoholic liquor in the village without first having procured a license
therefor as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.004 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for any license required by this chapter shall be made to the
President, as Liquor Control Commissioner, in writing, under oath, stating:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; if a partnership, the persons entitled to share in the profits
thereof; and, if a corporation or an incorporated club, the corporate name,
registered officer and agent, and the date of incorporation. A copy of the
articles of incorporation shall also be furnished with the application;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the date and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant;
   (D)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of such
character;
   (E)   The location and description of the premises which are to be operated
under such licenses;
   (F)   A statement as to whether applicant has made similar application for a
license required by this chapter for another location and the disposition of
such application;
   (G)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony;
   (H)   A statement as to whether a previous license issued by any state or
subdivision thereof, or by the Federal Government has been revoked and the
reasons therefor; and
   (I)   A statement that applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state or of the United States or any ordinance of the village in the conduct of
his or her business.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) (Ord. 14-005, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 111.005 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued under this chapter to:
      (1)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (2)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (3)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any state or
federal law;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of being a keeper of, or is
keeping, a house of ill fame;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      (6)   A person whose license issued pursuant to the Liquor Control Act,
being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, or this chapter has
been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person, who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon an original
application;
      (8)   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license;
      (9)   A corporation, if any officer, director or manager thereof or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the village;
      (10)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless
it is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the state’s Business
Corporation Act, being 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, to
transact business in the state;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state saw concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to the effective date hereof or who has forfeited his or her bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
      (13)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease therefor for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
      (14)   Any law enforcing public official or any village officer; and no
such official shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in
the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
      (15)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee; and
      (16)   A person who owes a indebtedness to the village or is in violation
of any village ordinance.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Commissioner shall cause the Chief of Police, the
Building Department and the Fire Chief to do an investigation of an application
for the issuance or renewal of a liquor license. If such departments find that
all applicable ordinances of the village have been complied with and the
applicant is eligible for issuance or renewal of the license, said application
or renewal shall be forwarded to the Commissioner. From time to time, the
Commissioner may cause such additional inspections or investigations as are
necessary to ensure the protection of the public health, safety and welfare and
to ensure full compliance by an applicant and licensee with the ordinances of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5) (Ord. 98371, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 98-379, passed 9-8-
1998; Ord. 14-005, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 111.006 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   The licenses required by this chapter shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   Class “A” license. Shall authorize the sale at retail and
consumption of alcoholic liquor on the specified premises;
      (2)   Class “B” license. Shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor to be consumed within the established location of a club by the members
thereof;
      (3)   Class “C” license. Shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor on the specified premises, but shall not permit the consumption thereon
or adjacent thereof;
      (4)   Class “D” license. Shall authorize the sale at retail and
consumption of alcoholic liquor on the specified premises, only as an incident
to a business, other than the sale of alcoholic liquor which is regularly
licensed and operated as a business in chief or principal business of the
owner;
      (5)   Class “D/special” license. Shall authorize the sale at retail and
consumption of alcoholic liquor on the premises located at 15420 S. Harper in
the village for so long as a municipally-owned building shall occupy those
premises and only as an incident to a catering business conducted at that
location which is legally licensed and operated as the business in chief or
principal business of the caterer for the premises;
      (6)   Class “E” license. Shall authorize the sale at retail and
consumption of alcoholic liquor on the specified premises, only as an incident
to a business, other than the sale of alcoholic liquor, such as a hotel or
motel, which is regularly licensed and operated as a business in chief or
principal business of the owner;
      (7)   Class “F” license. Shall authorize the sale at retail and
consumption of alcoholic liquor as a separate and distinct business which is
located entirely within a hotel or motel which is regularly licensed by the
village;
      (8)   Class “G” license. Shall authorize the sale at retail and
consumption of beer on the specified premises;
      (9)   Class “H” license. Shall authorize the sale at retail and
consumption of alcoholic liquor on the specified premises for a period of time
not to exceed four days; and
      (10)   Class “I” license, special event. Shall authorize the sale at
retail and consumption of alcoholic liquor on the premises located at 142nd and
Chicago Avenue, in the Dolton Village Mall.
   (B)   The annual license fees for the above businesses shall be established
by ordinance as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6) (Ord. 87-132, passed - -1987; Ord. 88-144, passed 8-9-
1988; Ord. 91-159, passed 6-25-1991)
§ 111.007 NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED.
   (A)   (1)   The total number of licenses to be issued under this chapter
shall not exceed the following:
Class A license                                    7
Class B license                                    4
Class C license                                    14
Class D license                                    5
Class D/special license                            1
Class E license                                    2
Class F license                                    1
Class G license                                    1
Class H license                                    1
Class I license
   Category 1 - 12-month license                4
   Category 2 - new licensee, in good standing  Unlimited
   Category 3 - Current licensee, in good standiUnlimited
 
      (2)   Provided, further, that, notwithstanding said limitations, the
widow or any descendant of legal age of any licensee who held a Class A
license, issued pursuant to this subchapter and in full force and effect, may
apply for and secure a license, if otherwise eligible under the provisions of
this subchapter and under the provisions of any other ordinance of the village,
within 60 days of the death of said licensee, and may renew said license from
year to year so long as said license shall not at any time be revoked or
permitted to lapse.
   (B)   The holder of a liquor license authorizing retail sales for
consumption on the premises shall be allowed one service bar for each license
held. However, additional service bars may be placed on the same premises;
providing that, the licensee has made application for such additional service
bars and paid the fee for each such bar as established in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7)
   (C)   The holder of a Class C license may designate a limited area of the
licensed premises for the sale at retail and consumption of alcoholic liquor on
the licensed premises. Any Class C licensee seeking to avail itself of
designated area sale of alcohol for consumption on the premises shall make
application to the village. There shall be an additional annual license fee of
$500 over and above the then-current Class A license fee.
(Ord. 87-132, passed - -1987; Ord. 88-119, passed 5-10-1988; Ord. 90-136,
passed 10-16-1990; Ord. 91-159, passed 6-25-1991; Ord. 91-166, passed 11-12-
1991; Ord. 93-205, passed 4-13-1993; Ord. 93-210, passed 5-25-1993; Ord. 94-
242, passed 3-16-1994; Ord. 14-005, passed 4-7-2014; Ord. 15-012, passed 5-4-
2015; Ord. 19-012, passed 5-9-2019)
§ 111.008 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses to be issued under this chapter shall be for a period of one
year and shall expire on April 30 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-8)
§ 111.009 PAYMENT AND DISPOSITION OF LICENSE FEES.
   All license fees required by this chapter shall be paid to the President, as
Liquor Control Commissioner, or to such other person as may be designated. Upon
such payment, the license fees shall be promptly turned over to the Village
Treasurer for deposit in the Corporate Fund. New licenses issued on or after
November 1 shall require payment of only one-half the annual license fee. There
shall be no refund of any fee paid for any unused portion of the license
period.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-9)
§ 111.010 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof;
provided, he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose; and,
provided further that, the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be
construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the President and
Board of Trustees from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within
its jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-10)
§ 111.011 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one
year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
Such license shall not descend by the laws of the state or intestate
devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-11)
§ 111.012 BUILDING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Location restrictions. No license shall be issued for the sale at
retail of any alcoholic liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital,
licensed nursing home or licensed care facility or home for veterans, their
wives or children, or any military or naval stations.
   (B)   View from street. On premises where the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption thereon is licensed, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article
or thing shall be permitted in the windows, or upon the doors of such licensed
premises, nor inside such premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all
times, and no booth, screen, partition or other obstruction, nor any
arrangements of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior
of such licensed premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire
interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk, and said premises
must be so located that there shall be a full view of the entire interior of
such premises from the street, road or sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold
for consumption upon the premises shall be continuously lighted during business
hours by natural light or artificial white light so that all parts of the
interior of the premises shall be clearly visible. In case the view in any such
licensed premises required by the foregoing provision shall be willfully
obscured by the licensee or by him or her willfully suffered to be obscured or
in any manner obstructed, then such license shall be subject to revocation.
   (C)   Change of location. A retailer’s license shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and license,
and it shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquor at retail at any other place.
Such location may be changed only upon the written permit of the President as
Liquor Control Commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted unless
the proposed new location is a proper one for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor under this chapter or under any other ordinance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-12)
   (D)   Video surveillance cameras on premises. Each Licensee shall maintain
in working condition video surveillance cameras (the “cameras”) that are
sufficiently light-sensitive and provide sufficient image resolution to produce
easily discernable images that visually record activities on all entrances of
the licensed premises as well as any bar area and any parking lot under the
control of the licensee. The video recording must be made available to law
enforcement officers and maintained in compact disc electronic file or other
digital media. The cameras shall be operational during all hours when the
licensed premises is open and shall be preserved at least 30 days after
recording. Failure to comply with this requirement shall subject the licensee
as to any and all penalties set forth in the village code, including, but not
limited to, license suspension or revocation.
(Ord. 87-132, passed - -; Ord. 19-022, passed 12-2-2019) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.013 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   License to be displayed. Every licensee shall cause his or her license
or licenses to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
   (B)   Closing hours. It shall be unlawful for any holder of any license
issued under this chapter to sell or to offer for sale at retail any alcoholic
liquor before the hour of 7:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, and before 12:00
p.m. on Sundays. It shall also be unlawful for any holder of any license issued
under this chapter to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor
after the hour of 1:00 a.m., Monday through Friday, and after 2:00 a.m. on
Saturday and Sunday.
   (C)   Insurance requirements. Each licensee shall, at all times, maintain a
policy of dram shop insurance issued by a responsible insurance company
authorized and licensed to do business in the state insuring such licensee
against liability, which such licensee may incur under the provisions of the
state’s Dram Shop Act, being 235 ILCS 5/6-21 as now or hereafter amended, and
specifically designating the village as an additional insured. Evidence of the
insurance policy shall indicate that the term of insurance is of sufficient
length to encompass the period of the current license.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-13) (Ord. 14-005, passed 4-7-2014; Ord. 19-018, passed 11-4-
2019) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.014 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Premises. All premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor, including all wash and toilet rooms thereon, shall be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Employees. No licenses under this chapter shall employ any person who
is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any contagious, infectious or venereal
disease. It shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a
carrier of any such disease to work in or about the licensed premises or to
engage in any way in the handling, preparation or sale of alcoholic liquor.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-14) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.015 MINORS; SALE TO CERTAIN PERSONS.
   (A)   Application of provisions. Pursuant to the authority granted by § 6 of
Art. VII of the Constitution of Illinois, 1970, this section shall be
controlling within the village in regards to the sale, gift or delivery of all
alcoholic liquor, notwithstanding anything contrary contained in 235 ILCS 5 as
now or hereafter amended and all acts amendatory thereof and supplementary
thereto and any other law or laws of the state.
   (B)   Sale to minors, intoxicated persons, habitual drunkards and persons
fighting on the licensed premises.
      (1)   No licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor
to any person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person, or to
any person know by him or her to be an habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane,
mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment, or to any
person known to the licensee, or officer, associate, member, representative,
agent or employee of the licensee, to have been involved in a fight at the
licensed premises within the immediately preceding 48-hour period.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any person under the age of
21 years, but at least 18 years of age from serving or delivering alcoholic
liquor at dining tables for consumption on the premises in those licensed
premises holding a retail license Class D, D/Special License and E pursuant to
this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
draw, pour, mix or sell any alcoholic liquor to patrons of establishments
licensed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Purchase for minors. No person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall give, sell or deliver such alcoholic liquor
to another person under the age of 21 years.
   (D)   Purchase or acceptance by minors. Any person to whom the sale, gift or
delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age shall not
purchase or accept a gift of such alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in
his or her possession.
   (E)   Consumption by minors. The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any
person under 21 years of age is forbidden.
   (F)   Identification; misrepresentation of age.
      (1)   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believes or has
reason to believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of the non-age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before
making such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
      (2)   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
   (G)   Unlawful purchase, acceptance or possession. No person shall purchase,
accept delivery or have possession of alcoholic liquor in violation of this
section.
   (H)   Alcohol sales to minors compliance checks. The purpose of this section
is to establish policy and procedures for conducting compliance check
operations for the sale of alcohol to underage minors.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (H), the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         COMPLIANCE CHECK MANAGER OFFICER. The village police officer who is
responsible for the supervising enforcement compliance checks operations for
alcohol and any other age restricted products.
         COMPLIANCE CHECK OPERATIONS. A controlled purchase operation conducted
using covert minors to ensure that age restricted products are being sold
within legal guidelines. COMPLIANCE CHECK OPERATIONS may also be referred to as
an INSPECTION.
         COMPLIANCE OFFICER(S). Village police officer(s) assigned to conduct
compliance check operation and supervise the covert minor(s) engaging in
controlled buys of age restricted alcohol liquor products.
         COVERT MINOR(S). A volunteer who is under the legal age to purchase
the age restricted product and who, while under police supervision, assists the
Police Department in controlled purchase operations.
         IDENTIFICATION. A government issued driver’s license, state
identification card, active duty military identification card or passport
lawfully issued to the covert minor for the purposes of establishing identity.
         LICENSEE. In the case of alcohol, the business, licensed by the
village and state, to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on or off
premises.
         OBSERVERS. Adult volunteers who assist supervising officer(s) in the
conducting of compliance check operations.
         PRODUCT. Any alcohol purchased by a covert minor in the course of
conducting a compliance check operation.
         SELLER(S). Persons who are responsible for and involved in the sale or
refusal of sale of the age restricted product.
      (2)   Procedures.
         (a)   Scheduling.
            1.   The compliance check manager will be responsible for creating
a schedule of alcohol compliance check operations. The number of alcohol
focused operations to be scheduled will be established by the count of licensed
liquor establishments eligible to be checked multiplied by the number of base
checks to be conducted per licensed establishment and then divided by the
number of locations to be checked during a single compliance check operation.
For alcohol based operations, the Liquor Commissioner will determine the number
of base checks to be conducted.
            2.   When an alcohol licensee has a compliance check failure, that
licensee will be scheduled to have two additional compliance check operations.
The follow-up compliance check operation will not occur within the first 30
days to allow for a review of the failure and suggestions for improvement. A
priority will be placed on completing the follow-up inspections.
            3.   The schedule for alcohol compliance check operations will be
subject to the approval of the Police Chief and shall be reported to the
village’s Police Trustee.
            4.   Upon the receiving of a complaint of underage access to a
alcohol product, the compliance check manager will schedule a compliance check
operation within 30 days of the complaint. The business alleged to be in
violation may be inspected as part of a regularly scheduled compliance check
operation.
         (b)   Officer assignments.
            1.   For pre-scheduled compliance check operations, the compliance
check manager will notify all eligible officers of the opportunity to conduct
compliance check operations. To ensure fairness in assignments, officers will
be given a period of time to sign up for the operations on a first come first
serve basis with a limitation on how many operations the individual officer may
sign up for. Once the sign-up period has lapsed, the compliance check manager
will re-open the schedule for a second round of sign ups to include officers
who previously sign up, again with limitations on the number they are allowed
to sign up for. If dates are still available following the second round, the
schedule will be opened up for general sign up with no limitations.
            2.   Officers who fail to report to scheduled assignments on two
consecutive dates may be required to forfeit upcoming dates or be denied the
opportunity to sign up during the next scheduling period.
         (c)   Covert minors. The compliance check operations manager is
responsible for the recruiting and scheduling of covert minors. Covert minors
will be selected using the following criteria.
            1.   Actual age of minors.
               a.   Covert minors assigned to alcohol compliance checks must be
at least 18 years of age and no more than 20 years of age.
               b.   Minors who are 16 years of age or minors who reside with
parent year round and have not reached the age of 19 years must have a parent
permission slip signed authorizing the involvement in compliance check
operations. The parent permission will outline the role the minor will take in
compliance check operations.
               c.   Under no circumstances will a covert minor be allowed to
participate in compliance check operations if he or she is within two months of
his or her birth date that would make them legal to purchase the age restricted
product.
            2.   Appearance of minors.
               a.   Minors should be “youthful” in appearance. No minor will
use excessive makeup to enhance their appearance, nor will males be allowed to
have facial hair (i.e., beard or mustache).
               b.   Minors will not be allowed to participate in a compliance
check operation if not appropriately dressed. Minors will not wear clothing
that would aid the determining of age (i.e., letter jackets and t-shirts that
provide class information).
               c.   Minors at the direction of the compliance check manager may
be required to participate in an age verification study.
               d.   To complete an age verification study, minors will be taken
to an area with high levels of pedestrian traffic. Officers will conduct the
study by requesting a variety of pedestrians to evaluate the minor and estimate
the minors age. Officers will request this input from 12 people who would be
eligible to sit on a jury.
               e.   Upon completing of the age verification study, the officers
conducting the study will turn the documentation over to the compliance check
manager for inclusion in the minor’s file.
            3.   Background review.
               a.   Minors should be of good character. A background check
shall be conducted by the compliance check manager. This background check will
include a criminal history check and a check of ARMS.
               b.   Minors will be disqualified from participation if they have
any felony or misdemeanor convictions or been charged with DUI or similar
violation from another state. Minors with a single violation of minors in
possession may be allowed to participate in the program with the authorization
of the Legal Department and the compliance check manager.
            4.   Selected covert minors.
               a.   Minors who are selected as a covert minor will compete a
covert minor information sheet. The information sheet will contain basic
information on the covert minor, contact information, medical information and
emergency contact information.
               b.   The compliance check manager will review the statement of
understanding (included on the covert minor information sheet) with the covert
minor. The statement of understanding outlines the rules for the covert minors
and the goal and direction of the compliance check program. They will also
agree to participate in any additional follow up investigations, case review
and preparation, trials being held to prosecute the seller and administrative
hearings against the licensee.
               c.   The compliance check manager will maintain a file on each
minor which include the covert minor information sheet, a copy of the covert
minor’s driver’s license, a completed background investigation and a photograph
of the covert minor. If the minor is working as part of fine reduction
arrangements, the file will also include the original documentation of the
violation.
               d.   Covert minors will not be evaluated on their ability to
purchase alcohol from a licensee. The evaluation of the covert minor will be
based on the minor conducting a fair test. Minors will be removed from the
program if they are found to be alerting businesses of the up coming compliance
check or tipping of an employee of an establishment while conducting the
compliance check. Officers observing or learning of the above behavior will
immediately notify the compliance check manager.
            5.   Covert minor compensation.
               a.   Minors working through an agreement for compensation will
be compensated at a rate of $10 per hour and figured to the nearest half hour.
This compensation will be issued through the supervising officer(s).
Compensation in this case does not imply employment but is a stipend given in
consideration for the voluntary activity of the covert minor.
               b.   Covert minors working through arrangements for fine
reduction will be scheduled for one compliance operation per $50 in fines
issued. No partial consideration will be made. When a covert minor agrees to
participate in this program, the minor will be assigned to the number of
details necessary to cover the entire fine amount. If the minor fails to
complete the program as agreed to.
            6.   Covert minor scheduling.
               a.   The compliance check manager is responsible for the
scheduling of covert minors. Two to three covert minors will be scheduled per
detail. If possible, a covert minor will not be scheduled for more than two
compliance check details in a month. Minor are required to notify the
compliance check manager if the covert minor is unable to complete an
assignment as scheduled.
               b.   Covert minors working as part of an agreement for fine
reduction will be given credit for working the compliance check operation if
the department is required to cancel the operation on short notice.
         (d)   Operational funds.
            1.   The compliance check manager will maintain and manage funds to
conduct compliance check operations. Funds will be requested from the Village
Treasurer’s office in $500 increments. The compliance check manager will keep
these funds secured in his or her office. A fund log will be maintained that
will show the distribution of these funds and the returning of funds not used
during the compliance check operations.
            2.   On each occasion that compliance check funds are to be used,
the compliance check manager will determine funds necessary to complete the
operation. The compliance check manager will log those funds out of the account
and issue them to the supervising officer(s). A covert fund tracking sheet will
be completed and one of the supervising officer(s) will verify and sign for
funds received.
            3.   Upon the conclusion of the compliance check operation the
supervising officer(s) will do an accounting of all expenditures and reconcile
the funds on the covert detail sheet. This reconciliation shall be reported to
the Village Treasurer timely. If discrepancies are found the supervising
officer(s) will provide a memo outlining what the discrepancies were and what
actions are needed to reconcile the account. Said funds shall be audited
annually by the Village Auditor.
            4.   If minors used in the compliance check operations are working
through an agreement for compensation, said agreement is subject to the
approval of the Chief of Staff/Village Administrator, the supervising officer
(s) will provide to the minor(s) appropriate funds as per the agreement with
the minor. The minors receiving compensation will sign for the funds received
on the covert fund tracking sheet.
            5.   The supervising officer(s) will return the unused funds to the
compliance check manager. The compliance check manager will review the
expenditure and ensure that the accounting was true and correct. If
discrepancies are found the compliance check manager will note the discrepancy
and request a memo from the supervising officer(s) regarding the discrepancy. A
copy of the discrepancy report shall be timely filed with the Village Treasurer
and the Chief of Staff/Village Administrator.
            6.   Funds will then be placed back into the covert funds account
and the return of unused funds will be documented on the covert fund log by the
compliance check manager.
            7.   Covert funds will be subject to periodic audits by the Police
Department and the Village Treasurer’s accounting staff and shall be audited
annual by the village duly appointed Auditor. The compliance check manager will
ensure that the covert funds logs kept up to date and reconciled on a monthly
basis. Said monthly reconciliations shall be reported to the Chief of Staff/
Village Administrator and the Village Treasurer.
         (e)   Operation procedures; assignment of businesses to be inspected.
            1.   For alcohol compliance check operations, the compliance check
manager will review the history of compliance checks completed and determine
which licensees need an inspection. The compliance check manager will then
prepare a compliance check detail sheet that provides information on
supervising officer(s) and covert minors along with a listing of locations to
be checked.
            2.   The types of licensees to be inspected on a single detail will
be left to the discretion of the compliance check manager. Typically, these
inspections should include one or two Class P licensees, a Class R licensee
that does not have a lounge area and the remaining slots are comprised of Class
As, Rs and other types of licenses which are publicly accessible. A minimum of
five licensees and a maximum of eight licensees will be inspected during a
compliance check operation.
            3.   The compliance check manager will, upon determining what
locations are to be inspected, calculate the amount of funds necessary to
complete the operation and issue those to the supervising officer(s) as
outlined above. The supervising officer(s) will be provided a kit that will
include the compliance check detail sheet and sufficient paperwork to handle
the detail. The compliance check manager will also provide any special
instructions to the supervising officer(s).
         (f)   Pre-operational briefing.
            1.   The supervising officer(s) will conduct a pre-operation
briefing. During this briefing, the supervising officer(s) will ensure that the
covert minors appearance follows the standards as outlined in this policy. If
their appearance does not meet those standards the supervising officer(s) will
take necessary action to get the covert minor into compliance If the
supervising officer(s) are unable to get the covert minor into compliance, the
covert minor shall not be allowed to perform duties on this occasion. The
supervising officer(s) will also notify the compliance check manager of the
issues related to the appearance of the minor.
            2.   The supervising officer(s) will then review the list of
businesses to be inspected with the covert minor. During this review, the
supervising officer(s) will determine which minors will be involved in checking
specific businesses. If the minor is aware of individuals employed by the
business to be checked, the covert minor should not be used at that location.
            3.   The supervising officer(s) should review with the covert
minors the procedures for conducting compliance operations, what products are
to be purchased and what things should be said by the covert minors. The
supervising officer(s) will discuss entrapment and what behaviors and
statements the minors should avoid to prevent entrapment from being an issue.
         (g)   Compliance check operation.
            1.   The supervising officer(s) will use a departmental vehicle in
conducting the compliance check operation. Only with advanced approval from the
Chief of Police will an officer’s personally-owned vehicle be used during a
compliance check operation. All participants in the compliance check operation
will conduct the operation out of the same vehicle. Covert minors will not be
allowed to use their own vehicles.
            2.   Supervising officer(s) will determine the order in which the
compliance checks should be conducted. When conducting these inspections,
officers should make every effort to avoid detection by the businesses being
inspected.
            3.   When conducting the actual compliance check operation, the
supervising officer(s) shall be in a position to see and, if possible, hear the
transaction. When practical, this observation should occur within the
establishment.
            4.   At a minimum, the supervising officer(s) should scan the
business to ensure that the minor is not entering into a dangerous situation.
If the supervising officer(s) are going to enter the establishment, they should
do so before the minor enters. This is done to further ensure the safety of the
covert minor.
            5.   The supervising officer(s) may send any combination of minors
into the establishment to aid in the natural appearance of the minors for the
business they are entering. Supervising officer(s) should avoid, as is
reasonably possible, giving the appearance that the supervising officer(s) are
with the covert minors. When using multiple covert minors, only one will be
directed to make the purchase of the product.
            6.   The supervising officer(s) will issue sufficient covert funds
needed to complete a transaction to the covert minor(s) prior to their entering
a specific location. Upon conclusion of the compliance check, the supervising
officer(s) will recover from the covert minor(s) funds not used in that check.
The supervising officer will then record the expenses related to that
compliance check of the covert detail sheet.
            7.   During the compliance check operation, the covert minor(s)
will be expected to be a good witness. They will be required to identify the
seller by name, number or description to the supervising officer(s) and provide
a statement regarding the conversation conducted between the seller and the
covert minor(s).
         (h)   Attempts to purchase/off-premises use products.
            1.   For purchases of products that are sold for off-premises use,
the covert minor will enter the establishment and locate the product to be
purchased. The covert minor will take the product immediately to the counter
for purchase. The quantity of product purchased will be limited to single-
serve containers, packs or a single. If the seller asks for identification, the
covert minor will indicate that he or she does not have his or her
identification on his or her person. If the covert minor is asked to provide an
age or a birth date, he or she will provide information that will put his or
her age over the purchase age for that product. During the actual attempt to
purchase, the covert minor will avoid excessive conversation and any actions
that would coerce, entice or compel the seller to agree to the purpose.
            2.   After the attempt to purchase occurs, the covert minor will
immediately leave the store with the product (if purchase is made) and return
to a previously agreed upon meeting location. He or she will meet with the
supervising officer(s), turn the product over to them and review the facts of
the case.
            3.   Following the compliance check, the covert minor(s) and
supervising officer(s) will then leave the premises and meet at the prearranged
location. A review of the check will be completed and the seller identified.
         (i)   Supervising officer(s) actions.
            1.   The primary responsibility of the supervising officer(s) is
the protection of the covert minor(s). The supervising officer(s) will make
every effort necessary to ensure the covert minor(s) are protected. At no time
will the supervising officer(s) make the covert minor(s) available to the
seller or business manager or other business staff.
            2.   While conducting a compliance check, the supervising officer
(s) will be observant of other violations occurring in the establishment. As
violations are noted, the supervising officer(s) will document violations and
notify the compliance check manager. When violations of a more serious nature
(i.e., employee consumption on duty) are found, the supervising officer(s) will
immediately notify the compliance check manager of their observations.
            3.   During the course of compliance check operations, the
supervising officer(s) may feel that it is necessary to purchase alcohol in
order to avoid detection. Supervising officer(s)in this case may purchase
alcohol and give the appearance of consumption. Supervising officer(s) should
make every effort not to consume alcohol during the operation. Under no
circumstance should supervising officer(s) consume more than two ounces of
alcohol during the compliance check detail.
         (j)   Completed inspections. Upon the completion of an individual
compliance check, the supervising officer(s) will meet with the covert minor(s)
and review the check. A determination will be made as to what if any violations
have occurred.
         (k)   Violations found.
            1.   In cases where violations are found, the supervising officer
(s) will notify TEP of the violations and request a report number. Preliminary
paperwork will be completed prior to re-entering the establishment.
            2.   The supervising officer(s) will wait for a reasonable period
of time. The purpose of this waiting period is to provide some distance between
the purchase and the notification of violation. The recommend waiting period is
a minimum of five minutes. In no case should the supervising officer(s)
continue to another compliance check location without first completing the
notification and issuance of a notice to appear.
            3.   Upon re-entering the business the supervising officer(s) will
request to speak to a manager or employee in charge. While this is occurring
efforts should also be made to locate the employee involved in the violation.
The business should be given a reasonable period of time to adjust business
operations to allow for enforcement action to occur.
            4.   The supervising officer(s) will provide notification to the
offending employee. During that notification, the supervising officers should
note any spontaneous statements made by the offending employee or business
representative and include those statements in the police report. Supervising
officer(s) should also make note of the conditions of the business with respect
to signage and other warnings or procedures specific to the control of the sale
of the product.
            5.   In the event that a demand to see the covert minor(s) is made
by the offending employee or business representative, the supervising officer
(s) will advise the requestor that it is not possible and that they should
contact the compliance check manager. Under no circumstance will the covert
minor be brought forward for viewing by the requestor.
            6.   Unless circumstances dictate otherwise, the offender will be
issued a notice to appear for the ordinance violation(s) as per standard
procedures. The supervising officer(s) will issue the notice of violation to
the business manager or representative. They will also encourage the business
manager or representative to contact the compliance check manager for a case
review and suggestions for improvement. A copy of the failure letter will be
included in the report.
            7.   Violation reports will include a detailed narrative of facts
of the violation. The report will also include the name and date of birth of
the covert minor(s). Addresses and phone numbers for the covert minor(s) shall
not be included in the report. The Police Department address and compliance
check manager’s phone number should be used as the address and phone number for
the covert minor(s).
         (l)   No violations found. When a business successfully passes an
inspection, a letter of congratulations will be prepared. The pass letter will
identify the seller by name or number. Upon completion of the compliance check
operation and after the covert minor(s) have been released, the supervising
officers will return to those businesses that successfully handled an
inspection and issue the pass letter to the manager or representative. The pass
letter will also note who the letter was served to.
         (m)   Compliance check operation wrap-up.
            1.   At the conclusion of the compliance check operation, the
supervising officer(s) will return the covert minor(s) to the Department or
other requested location. Any minors who are to receive compensation for
services will be paid at that time.
            2.   The supervising officer(s) will ensure that any issued funds
not used in the detail are returned to the supervising officer and accounted
for. The accounting section of the compliance check detail sheet will be
completed and the supervising officer(s) will sign for the return of covert
funds.
            3.   The compliance check detail sheet will be completed in full.
Supervising officer(s) must ensure that the outcome of each individual
inspection is noted along with which covert minor(s) were assigned to the
specific inspection. Both pass and failure letters will be attached to the
compliance check detail sheet.
            4.   Any reports of compliance check failures will be completed
immediately by the supervising officer(s) following the actual operation unless
delayed reporting is authorized by the compliance check manager. Completed
reports will be attached to the compliance check detail sheet and all paperwork
and the issued kit will be returned to the compliance check manager.
            5.   Upon receipt of the compliance check paperwork and kit the
compliance check manager will reconcile the funds issued and return them to the
fund.
            6.   Following the cities administrative policy on alcohol
violations, the compliance check manager will process all reports of
violations. The information from the completed compliance check operation will
be entered into a data base. Businesses with violations will be flagged for
additional inspections.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-15) (Ord. passed 3-4-1975; Ord. 10-511, passed 11-1-2010;
Ord. 12-785, passed 12-17-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.016 POSSESSION OF LIQUOR IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be a violation for any person to carry or possess alcoholic liquor
in a public place, parking lot, on any highway or in or about any motor vehicle
upon a highway or public place within the village, except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-16) (Ord. 86-137, passed 10-14-1986) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.017 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSES; APPEALS; FINES.
   (A)   The Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license and impose a fine,
if he or she determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
this code or state or federal law or any other ordinances or resolutions of the
village or any applicable rules or regulations established by the state’s
Liquor Control Commission. No license may be suspended or revoked and no fines
levied, except after a public hearing with a three-day written notice to the
licensee. Monetary fines may be imposed for each violation; each day on which a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Proceeds from such
fines shall be paid into the village’s General Corporate Fund.
   (B)   If the Commissioner has a reason to believe that any continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the village, he or she may, upon the issuance of a written order
stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the
licensed premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period; except that, if the licensee is
engaged in the conduct of another business on the licensed premises such order
shall not be applicable to such other business.
   (C)   Upon complaint being made of violation of this chapter or the state’s
statutes or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the Commissioner
shall set the matter for hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of
the time and place of such hearing and the particular charge.
   (D)   Notice of such hearing shall be served by registered or certified
mail, prepaid, return receipt requested, or by leaving a copy of said notice
with the licensee or with a person at the said licensed place of business at
least three days prior to the hearing. The notice shall also include a copy of
this section.
   (E)   All evidence received at the hearing shall be reduced to writing and
an official record of the proceedings shall be maintained. Within five days of
the conclusion of the hearing, the Commissioner shall determine if the license
should be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, and state
the reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the amount of
the fine, the period of suspension or that the license has been revoked, and
shall serve a copy of the order within five days upon the licensee.
   (F)   Pursuant to 235 ILCS 5/7-9, any appeal from a decision of the
Commissioner to the state’s Commission shall be limited to a review of the
official proceedings of the Commissioner. A certified copy of the record of the
proceedings taken and prepared by a certified court reporter or certified
shorthand reporter shall be filed by the Commissioner within five days after
notice of the filing of such an appeal, if the appellant licensee pays the cost
of the transcript.
   (G)   When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license
shall be granted to any person for the period of one year thereafter for the
conduct of selling alcoholic liquor in the premises described in such revoked
license.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-17) (Ord. passed 2-18-1975; Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012;
Ord. 14-005, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 111.018 RECORD OF LICENSES AND REVOCATIONS.
   (A)   The President, as Liquor Control Commissioner, shall keep or cause to
be kept a complete record of all licenses issued hereunder and shall furnish
the Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of Police with copies thereof.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of any new license or the revocation of any existing
license, the President, as Liquor Control Commissioner, shall give written
notice of such action to the Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of Police as promptly
as possible.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-18)
§ 111.019 BASSET PROGRAM.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASSET. Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training.
      PERSONNEL. The owner, all management personnel, anyone whose job
description entails pouring, mixing or dispensing alcoholic liquor, all persons
who sell or serve alcoholic beverages and anyone whose job description entails
checking identification in connection with purchasing alcoholic beverages.
      STATE CERTIFIED BASSET PROGRAM. A BASSET program licensed by the state’s
Liquor Control Commission as required by §§ 3-12(a)(11.1) and 6-27 of the
Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/3-12(a)(11.1), 5/6-27) and 77 Illinois
Adm. Code part 3500.
   (B)   (1)   For liquor licenses issued prior to 1-1-2013, compliance with
this section shall be completed on or before 5-1-2013 and proof of said
training must be filed with the village’s Liquor Commission or its prior to 5-
1-2013.
      (2)   For all original or renewal liquor licenses issued pursuant to this
section on or after 5-1-2013, the licensee shall cause all personnel to
complete the state’s Beverage Sellers and Servers Education and Training
(BASSET) program prior to the issuance or renewal of said liquor license by the
village’s Liquor Commissioner.
   (C)   Any new personnel requiring BASSET training shall, within 90 days from
the commencement of their employment with a licensee, complete a BASSET
approved seller/server training program and shall, until completion of the
BASSET program, work under the direct supervision of a person who has completed
BASSET training.
   (D)   The licensee shall on maintain photocopies of all licenses and
certificates of completion of the BASSET Program for all personnel and such
photocopies shall be available for immediate inspection upon demand, by the
village’s Liquor Commissioner or any designee of the village’s Liquor
Commissioner.
   (E)   All cost associated with the licensee’s compliance with the BASSET
training required under this section shall be paid by the licensee.
   (F)   Any licensee found to be in violation of this section shall be subject
to suspension or revocation of any license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 12-785, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 111.020 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to allow or permit any
minor child of whom he or she is the parent or guardian to violate any
provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the possession, dispensing and/or
consumption, by a person under the age of 21 years, of alcoholic liquor in the
performance of religious service or ceremony, or the possession and delivery of
alcoholic liquors in pursuance of a person’s employment by a licensee under
this chapter as allowed in §
111.005 of this chapter is not prohibited.
(Ord. 12-785, passed 12-17-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.021 NOTICES; SIGNAGE.
   All licensees shall cause an underage purchase/consumption printed card
approximately eight inches by ten inches to be framed and displayed at all
times on the licensed premises in a conspicuous location, prominently visible
to all patrons, and shall read substantially as follows:
 
UNDERAGE DRINKING
 
If you are under 21, you are subject to a mandatory fine of up to $750 if you
purchase and/or consume any alcoholic liquor on these premises. If you buy for
or deliver an alcoholic beverage to an underage person, you will be subject to
a fine of up to $750.
 
(Ord. 12-785, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 111.022 SPECIAL EVENT LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   A Class I special event liquor license may be issued at the direction
of the Liquor Control Commissioner, with payment of fees for same as follows:
      (1)   Twelve-month Class I licenses: $2,400 each;
      (2)   A person or entity not currently licensed in the village, but in
“good standing” with no outstanding indebtedness due and owing the village:
$250 per day; and
      (3)   A person or entity already issued a valid liquor license and in
“good standing” with no indebtedness due and owing the village: $35 per day.
   (B)   Any special event license so issued will be in full compliance with
all provisions of this chapter, concerning application and issuance of liquor
licenses.
(Ord. 91-159, passed 6-25-1991)
BRING YOUR OWN ALCOHOL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.035 DEFINITION.
   BRING YOUR OWN ALCOHOL ESTABLISHMENTS shall mean any establishment, place of
business and/or private club which is open to the public generally or to its
members and guests which permits members, guests, customers or patrons to bring
alcoholic beverages purchased elsewhere to the premises and consume the same on
the premises. The term BRING YOUR OWN ALCOHOL ESTABLISHMENTS shall not include
a private home where any of the activities described in above occur unless the
person owning or possessing the premises is paid and/or otherwise compensated.
(Ord. 08-435, passed 5-5-2008)
§ 111.036 PROHIBITION.
   No person may own or operate a “bring your own alcohol establishment” in the
village.
(Ord. 08-435, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
111.001 through
111.018 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500,
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. The revocation of a license
issued hereunder shall not preclude the assessment of any such fine for a
violation of any provision of §§
111.001 through
111.018 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-19)
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
111.036 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is
subject to a fine not exceeding $500 and/or incarceration not exceeding 90
days. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 08-435, passed 5-5-2008)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
112.001   Definitions
   
112.002   Tax imposed
   
112.003   Collections, payment and accounting
   
112.004   Rate of tax
   
112.005   Rules and regulations
   
112.006   Application of revenue; procedures
   
112.007   Raffles
Automatic Amusement Devices
   
112.020   Definitions
   
112.021   Tax imposed
   
112.022   Tax emblem
   
112.023   Installation prerequisites
   
112.024   Seizure for unlawful use
   
112.025   Licensing provisions
   
112.026   Number of devices limited
   
112.027   Restrictions on use by minors
Public Places of Amusement
   
112.040   Definition
   
112.041   Licensing provisions
   
112.042   Notice requirements; objections
   
112.043   Location restrictions
   
112.044   Written guaranty required
   
112.045   Occupancy enforcement
   
112.046   Exit diagram
   
112.047   Ticket sales
   
112.048   Specific businesses
   
112.049   Liability for certain additional village services
   
112.050   Special event allowance
   
112.051   Subject to taxation
Performing Arts
   
112.065   Definitions
   
112.066   License required
   
112.067   License application; contents
Sweepstakes Kiosks
   
112.080   Definitions
   
112.081   Regulation; license required
   
112.082   Eligibility
   
112.083   Annual fee; tax
   
112.084   Additional regulations
   
112.085   Illegal gambling devices prohibited
Mechanical Amusement Devices and Video Gambling Terminals
   
112.100   Definitions
   
112.101   License required
   
112.102   License application; limitations on video gambling terminals
   
112.103   Restrictions on issuance of license
   
112.104   Investigations; inspections
   
112.105   License fees
   
112.106   Number of licenses issued
   
112.107   License transfer
   
112.108   Display of license
   
112.109   Gambling devices prohibited
   
112.110   License revocation
   
112.111   Allowing to frequent or remain in public areas of establishments with
video gambling terminals
   
112.112   Bagatelle and pigeonhole
   
112.113   Coin-operated music devices
Raffles
   
112.125   Definitions
   
112.126   Licensing
   
112.127   License; application; restrictions
   
112.128   Ineligibility
   
112.129   Conduct of raffles
   
112.130   Records and reports
 
   
112.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any terms not
defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to it in other ordinances of the
municipality and, if not defined in any other municipal ordinances, it shall
have the meaning ascribed in state statutes.
   AMUSEMENT.
      (1)   Any exhibition, performance, presentation or show for entertainment
purposes, whether viewed within or outside the home, including, but not limited
to, any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance, promotional
show, motion picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus,
rodeo, athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition such as boxing,
wrestling, skating, dancing, swimming, racing or riding on animals or vehicles,
baseball, basketball, softball, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field
games, bowling or billiard and pool games;
      (2)   Any entertainment or recreational activity offered for public
participation or on a membership or other basis including, but not limited to,
carnivals, amusement park rides and games, bowling, billiards and pool games,
dancing, tennis, racquetball, swimming, weightlifting, body building or similar
activities; or
      (3)   Any paid television programming, whether transmitted by wire,
cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar means.
   ARCADE. A place of amusement that includes four or more automatic amusement
devices; provided, however, that, when calculating the number of automatic
amusement devices, jukeboxes shall not be counted.
   LEGAL VOTER. A person who has registered to vote and whose name appears on a
poll sheet from the last preceding election regardless of whether primary,
general or special.
   LIVE THEATRICAL, LIVE MUSICAL OR OTHER LIVE CULTURAL PERFORMANCE. A live
performance in any of the disciplines which are commonly regarded as part of
the fine arts, such as live theater, music, opera, drama, comedy, ballet,
modern or traditional dance, and book or poetry readings. The term does not
include such amusements as athletic events, races or performances conducted at
adult entertainment cabarets.
   MAXIMUM CAPACITY. The number of persons that an auditorium, theater or other
space may accommodate as determined by the Building Commissioner or the
Executive Director of the Department of Construction and Permits or by any
other appropriate government official; provided, however, that, MAXIMUM
CAPACITY shall not exceed the maximum number of tickets or admissions that may
be made available for sale to a performance as stated in any binding written
agreement relating to that performance. If the number of tickets or admissions
actually sold to a performance exceeds the legally permissible limit, for
purposes of determining the applicable tax, MAXIMUM CAPACITY shall mean such
greater number.
   OWNER.
      (1)   With respect to the owner of a place where an amusement is being
held, any person with an ownership or leasehold interest in a building,
structure, vehicle, boat, area or other place who presents, conducts or
operates an amusement in such place or who allows, by agreement or otherwise,
another person to present, conduct or operate an amusement in such place;
      (2)   With respect to the owner of an amusement, any person who has an
ownership or leasehold interest in such amusement or any person who has a
proprietary interest in the amusement so as to entitle such person to all or a
portion of the proceeds, after payment of reasonable expenses, from the
operation, conduct or presentation of such amusement, excluding proceeds from
non-amusement services and from sales of tangible personal property; and
      (3)   With respect to paid television programming, any person operating a
community antenna television system or wireless cable television system, or any
person receiving consideration from the patron for furnishing, transmitting, or
otherwise providing access to paid television programming.
   PAID TELEVISION. Programming that can be viewed on a television or other
screen, and is transmitted by cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar means to members of the public for consideration.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, society, foundation, institution,
partnership, limited liability company, association, joint stock company, joint
venture, public or private corporation, receiver, executor, trustee or other
representative appointed by the order of any court, or any other entity
recognized by law.
   SPECIAL SEATING AREA.
      (1)   An enclosed or substantially enclosed apartment-style room
containing or making available amenities for the exclusive use of the patrons
thereof whether denominated as luxury or super suites or skyboxes or by other
similar terms.
      (2)   Such amenities may include, but are not necessarily limited to,
television (including closed-circuit capacity), bathroom, refrigerator,
telephone service, storage sink, living room or lounge furniture, special
spectator seating, food, heat, air conditioning and parking.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.002 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, an amusement tax is
imposed upon the patrons of every amusement within the village. The rate of the
tax shall be equal to 8% of the admission fees or other charges paid for the
privilege to enter, to witness, to view or to participate in such amusement,
unless division (E) below provides for a lower rate.
   (B)   The tax imposed by division (A) above shall not apply to the following
persons or privileges:
      (1)   Patrons of automatic amusement machines, as defined in §§
112.020 through
112.027 of this chapter;
      (2)   The privilege of witnessing or participating in any stock show or
business show that is not open to the general public;
      (3)   The privilege of hiring a horse-drawn carriage licensed under this
code of ordinances;
      (4)   The privilege of witnessing or participating in any amateur
production or activity, such as amateur musicals, plays and athletic events,
conducted by a not-for-profit organization operated exclusively for charitable,
educational or religious purposes; or
      (5)   Subject to satisfying the requirement contained in division (C)
below, the privilege of witnessing or participating in any amusement sponsored
or conducted by and the proceeds of which, after payment of reasonable
expenses, inure exclusively to the benefit of:
         (a)   Religious, educational and charitable institutions, societies or
organizations;
         (b)   Societies or organizations for the prevention of cruelty to
children or animals;
         (c)   Societies or organizations conducted and maintained for the
purpose of civic improvement;
         (d)   Fraternal organizations, legion posts, social and political
groups which conduct amusements, sponsored occasionally but not more often than
twice yearly; provided, however, that, the entities described in divisions (B)
(5)(a) through (B)(5)(d) herein are not-for-profit institutions, organizations,
groups or societies, where no part of the net earnings inure to the benefit of
any private shareholder or person;
         (e)   Organizations or persons in the armed services of the United
States, or National Guard organizations, reserve officers’ associations or
organizations or posts of war veterans, or auxiliary units or societies of such
posts or organizations, if such posts, organizations, units or societies are
organized in the state and if no part of their earnings inure to the benefit of
any private shareholder or person;
         (f)   Organizations or associations created and maintained for the
purpose of benefitting the members, or dependents or heirs of members of the
police or Fire Departments of any political subdivision of the state; provided
that, the exemptions contained in divisions (B)(5)(a) through (B)(5)(f) hereof
shall apply only to benefits or other fundraising events and shall not apply to
more than two events per calendar year which shall not exceed a total of 14
calendar days;
         (g)   1.   Societies or organizations conducted for the sole purpose
of maintaining symphony orchestras, opera performances and artistic
presentations, including, but not limited to, musical presentations artistic
societies or organizations, if the artistic society or organization:
               a.   Receives substantial support from voluntary contributions;
               b.   Is a not-for-profit institution where no part of the net
earnings inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or person; and
               c.   Either:
                  i.   Bears all risk of financial loss from its presentation
of the amusement and the amusement is limited to an engagement of not more than
eight calendar days over the course of a calendar year; or
                  ii.   Is substantially and materially involved in the
production and performance of the amusement.
            2.   Where an amusement is sponsored or conducted by two or more
artistic societies or organizations, the requirements of divisions (B)(5)
(g)1.a. and (B)(5)(g)1.b. above must be met by each of such artistic societies
or organizations, but the requirements of division (B)(5)(g)1.c. above may be
met by any of such artistic societies or organizations, individually or in
combination.
   (C)   (1)   None of the exemptions contained in division (B)(5) above shall
apply to a person or privilege unless a written notice of the amusement is
filed with the Department of Revenue at least 30 calendar days prior to the
amusement or 15 calendar days prior to the date that admission tickets to the
amusement are first made available for sale, whichever is earlier. The notice
shall be on a form prescribed by the Director of Revenue, and shall contain all
information and materials necessary to permit the Department to consider
whether the exemption claimed by the applicant is applicable.
      (2)   Upon the request of the person filing the notice, the Department
shall indicate within 14 calendar days after receiving the notice whether the
claimed exemption does or does not apply, or whether additional information is
necessary to make a determination.
   (D)   (1)   The tax imposed in division (A) above shall not apply to or be
imposed upon the admission fees to witness in person live theatrical, live
musical or other live cultural performances that take place in any auditorium,
theater or other space in the village whose maximum capacity, including all
balconies and other sections, is not more than 750 persons.
      (2)   Initiation fees and membership dues paid to a health club,
racquetball club, tennis club or a similar club or organization, when such club
or organization is organized and operated on a membership basis and for the
recreational purposes of its members and its members’ guests, shall be exempt
from the tax imposed in division (A) above. This exemption shall not be
construed to apply to any fees paid or based upon, in any way whatsoever, a
per-event or a per-admission basis.
   (E)   The rate of the tax imposed in division (A) above shall be 4% of the
admission fees or other charges to witness in person live theatrical, live
musical or other live cultural performances that take place in any auditorium,
theater or other space in the village whose maximum capacity, including all
balconies and other sections, is more than 750 persons.
   (F)   The tax imposed in division (A) above shall apply to and be imposed
upon 60% of the admission fees or other charges (including, but not limited to,
the gross, lease or rental amount) paid for the privilege of using special
seating areas to witness or to view an amusement.
   (G)   It shall be presumed that all amusements are subject to tax under this
chapter until the contrary is established by books, records or other
documentary evidence.
   (H)   For the purpose of determining the amount of the amusement tax due
under this section, admission fees or other charges shall be computed exclusive
of this tax, any federal, state or county taxes imposed upon the amusement
patron and any separately stated charges for non-amusement services or for
sales of tangible personal property.
   (I)   It is unlawful for any person to produce, present, conduct or resell
tickets to any amusement without collection of the tax, except as provided in
this chapter.
   (J)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, if an owner, manager or operator
of an amusement or of a place where an amusement is being held, or if a
reseller of tickets to an amusement, is a party to a franchise agreement or any
other agreement with the village pursuant to which the owner, manager, operator
or reseller compensates the village for the right to use the public way or to
do business in the village, liability under the tax imposed by division (A)
above shall be reduced by 95% of the amount paid to the village pursuant to the
agreement.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.003 COLLECTIONS, PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   It shall be the joint and several duty of every owner, manager or
operator of an amusement or of a place where an amusement is being held, and of
every reseller of tickets to an amusement, to secure from each patron the tax
imposed by §
112.002 of this chapter and to remit the tax to the Department of Revenue not
later than the last day of each calendar month for all admission fees or other
charges received during the immediately preceding calendar month; provided,
however, that, a reseller of tickets shall be required to collect and remit tax
to the Department only on that portion of the ticket price that exceeds the
original or face amount of the tickets. A verified statement of admission fees
or charges in a form prescribed by the Director of Revenue shall accompany each
remittance. Acceptance by the village of any amount tendered in payment of the
tax shall be without prejudice to any claim, demand or right on account of any
deficiency. Effective 7-1-2006, each owner, manager, operator or reseller that
collects and remits taxes in accordance with this section may retain 1% of the
taxes it collects under this chapter to reimburse itself for expenses incurred
in connection with accounting for and remitting the taxes to the Department;
provided that, this service fee shall not be allowed for taxes not timely
remitted to the Department; and, provided further that, this service fee shall
not apply to any taxes that are collected and remitted pursuant to the terms of
a contract between the operator and the village.
   (B)   Every person required to collect and remit the tax imposed by §
112.002 of this chapter, or pay the tax directly to the Department, shall keep
accurate books and records of its business or activity, including original
source documents and books of entry denoting the transaction that gave rise, or
may have given rise, to the tax liability or any exemption that may be claimed.
All such books, records and accounts shall be available for inspection by the
Department at all reasonable times during business hours of the day.
   (C)   Every owner, manager, operator or reseller of tickets, who is required
to collect the tax imposed by §
112.002 of this chapter shall be considered a Tax Collector for the village.
All amusement tax collected shall be held by such Tax Collector as trustee for
and on behalf of the village. The failure of the Tax Collector to collect the
tax shall not excuse or release the patron from the obligation to pay the tax.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, in order to permit
sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the village, no person shall be entitled
to a refund of, or credit for, either tax imposed by this chapter unless the
person files a claim for refund or credit within one year after the date on
which the tax was paid or remitted to the Department. This provision shall
apply to any claim for credit or refund for which the Director has not issued a
final determination as of the effective date of this division (D).
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, a reseller of tickets shall not be
required to collect the tax imposed by §
112.002 of this chapter, and remit the tax to the Department of Revenue, if the
purchaser of such tickets will in turn act as a reseller of the same tickets;
provided that, the purchaser supplies to the reseller:
      (1)   A written verification that the purchaser intends to resell the
tickets; and
      (2)   The tax registration number issued to the purchaser by the
Department of Revenue.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, for all periods
beginning on or after 7-1-2006:
      (1)   All tax returns shall be filed with the Department on an annual
basis on or August 15 of each year;
      (2)   All tax payments and remittances shall be made in accordance with
the protocol established for the payment of actual tax liabilities or estimated
taxes given in this code; and
      (3)   The provisions outlined as duties of the taxpayer and the Tax
Collector shall control over any contrary provisions in this chapter regarding
the subjects covered by those sections.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.004 RATE OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the tax imposed by §
112.002 of this chapter, a tax is imposed upon persons that sell tickets in the
village for theatricals, shows, exhibitions, athletic events and other
amusements within the village at a place other than the theater or location
where the amusement is given or exhibited.
      (2)   The rate of this tax shall be 8% of any service fees or similar
charges received by the seller in connection with the sale of such tickets in
the village, as distinguished from the admission fees or other charges paid for
the privilege to enter, to witness, to view or to participate in such
amusements.
      (3)   This tax shall not apply if the theatrical, show, exhibition,
athletic event or other amusement is exempt or otherwise not subject to the tax
imposed by §
112.002 of this chapter.
   (B)   To prevent multiple taxation, upon proof that a taxpayer has paid a
similar tax in another state or municipality with respect to the service fee or
similar charge received by a seller in connection with the sale of tickets in
the village, the taxpayer shall be allowed a credit against the tax authorized
by division (A) above to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and
paid in such other state or municipality.
   (C)   (1)   Sellers of tickets shall pay the tax imposed by this section to
the Department of Revenue not later than the last day of the calendar month
following the month they receive the service fees or similar charges. A return
prescribed by the Director of Revenue shall accompany each tax payment.
      (2)   Such sellers of tickets shall keep accurate books and records of
their business, including original source documents and books of entry, which
shall be made available for inspection by the department at all times during
business hours of the day.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, for all periods
beginning on or after 7-1-2006:
      (1)   All tax returns shall be filed with the Department on an annual
basis on or August 15 of each year;
      (2)   All tax payments and remittances shall be made in accordance with
the protocol established for the payment of actual tax liabilities or estimated
taxes given in this code; and
      (3)   The provisions outlined as duties of the taxpayer and the Tax
Collector shall control over any contrary provisions in this chapter regarding
the subjects covered by those sections.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.005 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director of Revenue is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules
and regulations pertaining to the interpretation, administration and
enforcement of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the meaning and
scope of the exemptions contained in §
112.002 of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.006 APPLICATION OF REVENUE; PROCEDURES.
   Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or whenever
this chapter is silent, the provisions of the Revenue Ordinance for procedures
for the village, as amended, shall apply and supplement this chapter.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.007 RAFFLES.
   (A)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACT. An act to provide for licensing and regulating certain games of
chance as provided in governing state statutes, as may be amended from time to
time.
      RAFFLE, RELIGIOUS, CHARITABLE, LABOR, FRATERNAL, EDUCATIONAL and
VETERANS. The respective meanings specified in §
112.125 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Licenses; issuance by Revenue Department. The Revenue Director shall
have the authority to issue licenses for raffles, as defined in the act,
subject to the limitations stated in §
112.126 of this chapter.
   (C)   Licenses; requirements. See §
112.126(B) in this chapter for eligibility requirements for license.
   (D)   Separate licenses; fee; term. Each raffles must be authorized by a
separate license. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by
payment of a fee of $500. The license shall be valid for the duration of one
year.
   (E)   Raffle tickets. Each raffle ticket, chance or other raffle token shall
state on its face, the name and address of the licensee, the date or dates of
the drawing and the prize or prizes to be awarded; provided, however, that,
this requirement shall not apply to any raffle in which prizes in aggregate
value under $50 are awarded. No such ticket, chance or token shall be sold or
issued more than 364 days before the determination of the winning chance or
chances.
   (F)   Prizes; fees. The maximum cash prize awarded in any raffle, the
maximum retail value of a non-cash prize awarded in any raffle, and the
aggregate value of all prizes awarded in any raffle shall be as set forth in §
112.126(D) of this chapter. The maximum fee for any chance shall be shall be as
set forth in §
112.126(E) of this chapter. All such fees shall be paid in currency or by
check.
   (G)   Publication of rules and regulations. The Director of Revenue, or his
or her designated agent, shall publish rules and regulations not inconsistent
with this chapter or the act governing the conduct of raffles licensed
hereunder.
   (H)   Fee exemption conditions. Notwithstanding any provision of division
(D) above, no license fee shall be charged for any other raffle conducted by
qualifying organization in the same calendar year during which such
organization has paid a raffle license fee and conducted the licensed raffle.
   (I)   Auxiliaries and affiliates of organizations. Whenever used in this
chapter, the word ORGANIZATION shall include an auxiliary or affiliate of a
licensee.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006; Ord. 09-468, passed 3-2-2009)
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 112.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any terms not
defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to it in other ordinances of the
municipality and, if not defined in any other municipal ordinances, it shall
have the meaning ascribed in the state statutes.
   A COUNT OF PAYOFFS OF THE NUMBER OF TIMES PLAYER HAS WON A GAME PLANE ON THE
DEVICE. A tally, whether on paper, mechanical or electronic, and regardless of
whether maintained inside, on or outside the automatic amusement device. The
phrase is not intended to include a record of scores, accessible to players of
the device, and linked to previous players’ names, nicknames, initials or other
identifiers, for purposes of comparison and competition.
   AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE.
      (1)   Any machine, which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, card
or similar object, or upon any other payment method, may be operated by the
public generally for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not
registering a score, and includes, but is not limited to, such devices as
jukeboxes, marble machines, pinball machines, movie and video booths or stands
and all games, operations or transactions similar thereto under whatever name
by which they may be indicated. Bingo devices are deemed gambling devices and
are therefore prohibited from use, except as provided by state law.
      (2)   If a machine consists of more than one game monitor which permits
individuals to play separate games simultaneously, each separate game monitor
shall be deemed an AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE.
   ILLEGAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE.
      (1)   An automatic amusement device that: includes a knock-off circuit;
or allows more than ten replays or free games, or maintains a count of payoffs
or the number of times a person has won a game played on the device; or
maintains a tally of players’ scores other than the tally displayed to players;
or fails to display in the required manner a tax emblem required by chapter; or
has been used for illegal gambling.
      (2)   ILLEGAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE does not include a device that properly
displays a required tax emblem, that is not used for illegal gambling and that
qualifies either as a crane game or as a redemption machine as defined in the
Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq. as now or hereafter
amended.
      (3)   An automatic amusement device shall not be deemed an ILLEGAL
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE because of internal diagnostic devices or
capabilities that are able to record and maintain statistical data such as the
number of coins or tokens deposited, the number of games played or the number
of games won, if such diagnostic devices or capabilities are intended and used
exclusively for auditing of game performance.
   KNOCK-OFF CIRCUIT. Any mechanical or electrical device, circuitry or
modification on an automatic amusement device, whereby free games shown on an
externally visible indicator are released, while a record of games so released
is maintained on a second indicator, meter or counter, either inside or outside
the device. A reset button installed by the manufacturer of the automatic
amusement device shall not, without more, constitute a KNOCK-OFF CIRCUIT.
   MORE THAN 10 REPLAYS OR FREE GAMES. More than ten replays or free games at
one time. Free game or replay does not include an extension of a game awarded
as a result of the player’s skill, such as an extra ball in a pinball game or
extended playing time in a video game.
   PAYOFF. The giving of money or other thing of value in exchange for a
player’s accumulated points or free games or replays.
   TALLY OF PLAYERS’ SCORES OTHER THAN THE TALLY DISPLAYED TO PLAYERS. Does not
include a record of scores, accessible to players of the device, and linked to
previous players’ names, nicknames, initials or other identifiers, for purposes
of comparison and competition.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.021 TAX IMPOSED.
   An annual tax in the amount of $150 for non-gambling-type automatic
amusement devices and $225 for gambling-type automatic amusement devices for
each calendar year is imposed upon all automatic amusement devices operated for
gain or profit per device.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.022 TAX EMBLEM.
   (A)   The automatic amusement device tax shall be paid by the owner of such
device to the Department of Revenue and Administrative Services.
   (B)   The Revenue Director shall issue as evidence of the payment of the tax
a self-voiding adhesive tax emblem to be placed on each device. Such emblem
shall bear the words “Village of Dolton Amusement Device Tax”, the names of the
Mayor and Village Clerk and such other wording as may be prescribed by the
Mayor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to mutilate said tax emblem during
the year for which it was issued.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.023 INSTALLATION PREREQUISITES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or lessee of any premises or person
in control of such premises to permit the installation or use of an automatic
amusement device within the village for gain or profit unless the tax has been
paid and is evidenced by a tax emblem affixed to the automatic amusement
device. Each such device shall be plainly labeled with the name, address and
telephone number of its owner.
   (B)   No person shall remove, alter or deface the tax emblem or label
required by this section, or allow use of an automatic amusement machine if the
tax emblem or label has been removed, altered, defaced or become illegible.
   (C)   The owner or lessee of the premises where the device is placed for
operation by the public and every person responsible for the premises shall be
jointly and severally liable for a violation of this section.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.024 SEIZURE FOR UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   If the Mayor, Police Chief or Revenue Director, or their duly
authorized enforcement officer, shall have a reasonable basis for believing any
amusement device is an illegal amusement device, said device or any part or
contents thereof may be seized by any duly authorized enforcement official,
followed by an administrative hearing with notice to the owner within seven
days of such seizure for the purpose of reviewing the appropriateness of the
seizure, and held until such time as the owner of such device pays the
delinquent tax, reimburses the Police Department for actual cartage cost
incurred in the seizure and pays to the Department of Revenue $20 for each day
or part of day said device has been in storage.
   (B)   If criminal charges involving the use or condition of the device are
pending, the device shall be held until disposition of the criminal charges. If
it is determined at the hearing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the
seized device is not an illegal amusement device, it shall be returned to the
owner without charge.
   (C)   If it is determined at the hearing that the automatic amusement device
was used for illegal gambling, it shall be destroyed by the village, and all
money found within the device at the time of confiscation shall become the
property of the village, and shall be used to defray the costs of cartage,
notice, storage and hearings.
   (D)   If the owner of the device does not claim the automatic amusement
device within 14 days after the mailing of the notice, the device and its
contents will be treated as abandoned property and the device will be
destroyed.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.025 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   License required. See §
112.101 of this chapter for eligibility requirements for license.
   (B)   License application; examination of records.
      (1)   An application for an automatic amusement device operator’s license
shall be made in conformity with the general requirements of this chapter
relating to application for license.
      (2)   The Department of Revenue, upon reasonable notice, shall have the
authority to examine all books and records of automatic amusement device
operators to ensure compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   The license fee for an automatic amusement device operator’s
license shall be as set forth in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Application; investigation. See §
112.104 of this chapter for application investigation and inspection.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.026 NUMBER OF DEVICES LIMITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate or permit the operation of an
arcade unless the person in control of such place has first obtained a public
place of amusement license.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.027 RESTRICTIONS ON USE BY MINORS.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, organization or other legal entity shall
permit, and it shall be unlawful for, any person under 17 years of age, who is
not accompanied by a parent or guardian, to operate any automatic amusement
device, except upon the premises of the village airports, between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. on days in which the village’s public schools are in
session.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation, organization or other legal entity shall
permit, and it shall be unlawful for, any person under the age of 21 to play an
automatic amusement device located at an establishment which sells alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises. The prohibition described in this
division (B) shall not prohibit any person or legal entity to permit any person
under the age of 21 to play an automatic amusement device located at an
establishment which sells alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises, if:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian; and/or
      (2)   The establishment is a restaurant holding a valid license issued
under §§
120.40 through
120.50 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
112.999
PUBLIC PLACES OF AMUSEMENT
§ 112.040 DEFINITION.
   A PUBLIC PLACE OF AMUSEMENT means any building or part of a building, park
or other grounds used or intended to be used for any amusement, as defined in §
112.001 of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.041 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   (a)   Unless specifically exempted in division (B) below, it shall
be unlawful for the owner, lessee or manager of any property, or for any other
person, to produce, present or conduct thereon, for gain or profit, any
amusement unless the owner, lessee or manager of such property has first
obtained a public place of amusement license.
         (b)   If an amusement is produced presented or conducted for gain or
profit on any property without a valid public place of amusement license first
having been obtained, and unless division (B) below applies, all of the
following persons shall be in violation of this division (A)(1)(b):
            1.   The owner of the property;
            2.   The lessee of the property;
            3.   The manager of the property;
            4.   The producer of the amusement;
            5.   The presenter of the amusement; and
            6.   The person conducting the amusement.
      (2)   If any part of the property is used or intended for use for any
amusement, a public place of amusement license shall be required, regardless of
whether the use is incidental to the property’s principal use.
      (3)   If more than one amusement is produced, presented or conducted at
any single place or premises as part of a single business, only one public
place of amusement license shall be required.
      (4)   A special class of public place of amusement license shall be
required for any public resort which is designed, used or intended to be used
primarily for participation by minors in entertainment or amusement primarily
involving music, music videos and dancing. Examples of such resorts include,
but are not limited to, a dry dance hall, non-alcohol bar, dry cabaret, juice
bar or teenage cabaret This class of license shall be known as a juice bar
license. No juice bar licensee may operate between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
11:00 a.m. No premises requiring a juice bar license shall be eligible for a
retail liquor license.
      (5)   Any person who owns, operates or manages an establishment requiring
a juice bar license without first obtaining such license shall be subject to
revocation of all village licenses pertaining to that establishment.
   (B)   License exceptions. No public place of amusement license shall be
required, if the only amusement to be produced, presented or conducted is one
or more of the following:
      (1)   A single pool or billiard table regardless of whether players must
pay to use the pool or billiard table;
      (2)   Less than four automatic amusement devices; provided, however,
that, when calculating the number of automatic amusement devices, jukeboxes
shall not be counted. A pool or billiard table shall be included when
calculating the number of automatic amusement devices for purposes of this
division (B)(2) if players must pay to use the pool or billiard table; provided
that, in no case shall this division (B)(2) create an exemption for
establishments which contain more than one pool or billiard table regardless of
whether any payment is required;
      (3)   Music, dancing or other amusement, if:
         (a)   It is offered in a venue with a capacity of less than 100
persons; and
         (b)   No admission fee, minimum purchase requirement, membership fee
or other fee or charge is imposed for the privilege of entering the premises or
the portion of premises where the music, dancing or other amusement is provided
or permitted.
      (4)   Live or recorded music and dancing in a banquet hall, restaurant or
similar establishment if:
         (a)   The owner of the establishment possesses the necessary retail
food establishment license;
         (b)   The music and dancing is being presented in connection with an
event which is not open or advertised to the general public, including a
wedding, graduation or religious celebration; and
         (c)   No admission fee, minimum purchase requirement, membership fee
or other fee or charge is imposed for the privilege of entering the premises or
the portion of premises where the music and dancing is provided or permitted.
      (5)   Live or recorded readings from books or other publications
available for sale within the premises of a retail seller of books or other
publications, and the presentation of live or recorded music within the
premises of a retail seller of printed or recorded music, if:
         (a)   The owner of the establishment possesses the necessary retail
establishment license;
         (b)   The retail activity conducted on the premises is not the sale of
alcoholic liquor; and
         (c)   No admission fee, minimum purchase requirement or other fee or
charge is imposed for the privilege of entering the premises or the portion of
premises where the reading or musical presentation takes place.
      (6)   Instrumental music by an orchestra of not more than eight pieces in
a hotel, restaurant or retail establishment if:
         (a)   No dancing or other entertainment is permitted; and
         (b)   No admission fee, minimum purchase requirement, membership fee
or other fee or charge is imposed for the privilege of entering the premises or
the portion of premises where the music is provided or permitted.
      (7)   (a)   Any amusement produced, presented or conducted on the
premises owned or leased, for a minimum lease term of one year, by a private
club or lodge that is produced, presented or conducted either:
            1.   Solely for its members and their guests; or
            2.   As part of a program to augment the support of the fine or
performing arts by a club that has been in continuous existence for more than
50 years.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (B)(7), PRIVATE CLUB OR LODGE
means any not-for-profit association that:
            1.   Has been in active and continuous existence for at least three
years; and
            2.   Has a membership role of more than 50 bona fide members who
pay membership dues on an annual or other periodic basis.
         (c)   For purposes of this division (B)(7), BONA FIDE MEMBERS do not
include members who pay membership dues at the time of an amusement produced,
presented or conducted by the club or lodge or in conjunction with contracting
for production, presentation or conduct of an amusement by the club, as a
condition to entering the premises where the amusement is produced, presented
or conducted.
         (d)   For purposes of division (B)(7)(c) above, a private club’s
program of supporting the fine or performing arts must include offering
residential facilities to performers or artists; offering a venue for practice
and performances; and availability of facilities for the discussion, promotion
and development of skills and interests in the fine or performing arts. A
private club or lodge, at the request of the Department of Revenue or the
Department of Police, shall make available for inspection records and documents
that provide evidence of its not-for-profit status and membership roles.
      (8)   Paid television programming; or a health club, racquetball club,
tennis club or a similar club or organization when such club or organization is
organized and operated on a membership basis and for the recreational purposes
of its members and its members’ guests. For purposes of this division (B)(8),
when determining whether a venue has a capacity of more than 100 persons, the
total occupancy of all rooms or other occupancy areas of the premises of the
business operating the amusement shall be calculated.
   (C)   License application; contents.
      (1)   An application for said license shall be made in conformity with
the general requirements of this code of ordinances relating to applications
for licenses. Said application shall be signed under oath by the owner of the
business for which a license is sought. If the owner is a corporation, the
application shall be signed by an authorized officer of the corporation. If the
owner is a partnership, the application shall be signed by a partner. If the
owner is a limited liability company that is managed by managers, the
application shall be signed by a manager. If the owner is a limited liability
company managed by members, the application shall be signed by a member.
      (2)   The application shall set forth the location and a description of
the property used or intended for use as a public place of amusement,
indicating the seating capacity and the floor area or ground area of the place,
the types of amusements which the applicant intends to conduct on the property,
and shall include the following:
         (a)   The name, residence address, current telephone number and Social
Security number of the applicant in the case of an individual; in the case of a
partnership, the names, residence addresses, Social Security numbers and
percentage of interest therein of the three members who own the highest
percentage interest in such partnership and of any other member who holds a 25%
or more interest therein; in the case of a limited partnership, the names,
residence addresses, Social Security numbers, and percentage interest therein
of each general partner thereof; in the case of a corporation, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, a summary of its
activities during the past year, and the names, residence addresses and Social
Security numbers of its principal officers, those stockholders who own 25% or
more of its voting shares; in the case of a limited liability company, the date
of its formation, the objects for which it was organized, a summary of its
activities during the past year and the names, residence addresses, Social
Security numbers and percentage of interest of the three members who own the
highest percentage interests in such limited liability company, of any other
member who holds a 25% or more interest therein and, if the limited liability
company is manager-managed, the names, residence addresses and Social Security
numbers of all managers; and in the case of a club, the date of its
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, a summary of its
activities during the past year and the names, residence addresses and Social
Security numbers of the officers and directors. If the applicant is a
partnership, limited partnership, corporation, limited liability company or
club, the applicant shall also provide the current telephone number of its
authorized agent;
         (b)   The name and address of the owner of the premises. If the
premises are leased:
            1.   A copy of the lease, unless the applicant already has a lease
for premises on file with the Department of Revenue and no changes have been
made to the lease since it was filed;
            2.   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the
premises, including the name and address of the beneficiary if title to the
premises is held by a person as trustee and if known to the applicant; and
            3.   The name, address, Social Security number and telephone number
of the manager of the premises.
         (c)   A copy of each agreement for management of the licensed
business; and
         (d)   A statement as to whether the applicant has made application for
a similar license on premises other than that described in the application and
the disposition of such application.
      (3)   If a change in any information required in this division (C) occurs
at any time during a license period, the licensee shall file a statement,
executed in the same manner as an application, indicating the nature and
effective date of the change. The supplemental statement shall be filed within
ten days after the change takes effect. The Department of Revenue shall take
measures to prevent disclosure of confidential information required under this
division (C) and not subject to disclosure under the state’s Freedom of
Information Act, being 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, to
persons outside the government.
   (D)   License application; approval conditions.
      (1)   Each application and all information required to be furnished in
connection therewith or a copy thereof shall be referred for approval to the
Building Commissioner, the Zoning Administrator, the person designated as the
Director in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Police Chief. The
Police Chief shall require the following individuals to submit to
fingerprinting in order to determine whether the issuance of the license is
prohibited pursuant to division (E) below: the individual applicant; all
officers of an applicant corporation; the three members who own the highest
percentage interests of an applicant partnership; the general partners of an
applicant limited partnership; the three members who own the highest percentage
interests and, in the case of a member-managed limited liability company, the
manager of an applicant limited liability company, unless the above listed
individuals are already named on a valid liquor license or are named in a
liquor license application that has been filed and is being processed for the
same premises for which the public place of amusement license is sought. Within
21 days after receipt of the application of copy thereof, and all other
information requested of the applicant by any department whose approval is
necessary, each department shall certify to the Mayor whether or not the place
and the applicant complies in every respect with the applicable provisions of
this code of ordinances relating to that department. No license shall be issued
without approval by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor shall review the application and the reports of the
departments and shall determine within 14 days after receipt thereof whether or
not the subject property complies with the applicable provisions of the code;
provided, however, that, the Mayor may extend the period of such review for an
additional 15 days to allow completion of the review, if necessary. If the
Mayor finds that either subject property or the applicant does not comply with
applicable provisions of this municipal code, he or she shall disapprove the
application, and the requirements of §
30.04(D) of this code of ordinances relating to disapproval of license
applications shall apply.
   (E)   License issuance prohibited. No public place of amusement license
shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who has been convicted of a felony, within the past ten
years, under any federal or state law;
      (2)   A person who knowingly files false or incomplete information on an
application for a public place of amusement license or any other document
required by this chapter.
      (3)   A person whose license, issued by the village under any chapter of
this municipal code, has been revoked for cause within the past five years;
      (4)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of a public
place of amusement license would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      (5)   A corporation, partnership, limited partnership or limited
liability company, if any of the officers, substantial owners, members or other
individuals required to be identified in the initial license application by
division (C)(1) above would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder;
      (6)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it
is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act
of 1983 to transact business in the state; provided that, the corporation is
not dissolved and is in good standing under the laws of the state;
      (7)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business for which a
license is sought;
      (8)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the person demonstrates that the manager or agent possesses the
qualifications required to obtain a license hereunder; or
      (9)   A person whose public place of amusement license has not undergone
and passed a building inspection as required by this code of ordinances within
the 90 days preceding the date of submission of an annual renewal license
application.
   (F)   License annual fees.
      (1)   The annual license fee for each public place of amusement shall be
as set forth as follows: the fee for each public place of amusement license
shall be graded according to the capacity in accordance with the following
schedule:
Maximum Capacity Fee
Maximum Capacity Fee
1 - 350          $385
351 - 500        $550
501 - 750        $750
751 - 1,000      $1,100
1,001 - 2,000    $1,650
2,001 - 3,000    $2,200
3,001 - 4,000    $3,300
Over 4,000       $6,600
 
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the annual license fee for a
performing arts venue with an aggregate maximum occupancy of all performance
spaces within the building of less than 500 persons shall be $55 and the annual
license fee for all other performing arts venues shall be equal to $1
multiplied by the total occupancy of all performance spaces within the
building.
      (3)   When computing the capacity of a public place of amusement, other
than a performing arts venue, the total occupancy of all rooms or other
occupancy areas of the premises of the business operating the amusement shall
be calculated.
   (G)   Term of license. The term shall be May 1 through April 30, annually.
   (H)   Statement of conditions. Every license shall contain apt words
indicating that it is issued and accepted subject to the representations made
in the application and to all laws, ordinances and regulations governing the
conduct of the licensed premises now in effect or which may hereafter be
adopted.
   (I)   License restrictions. No public place of amusement license shall be
granted to any establishment if there already exists a public place of
amusement license in the same area, except for establishments designated for
motion pictures, motor vehicle repair or motor vehicle washes.
   (J)   License revocation.
      (1)   The Mayor may revoke any license for default in the payment or
performance of any obligation to the village under the provisions of this
chapter or for the violation of any provisions in this code of ordinances or
the laws of the state, applicable to the licensee or the licensed premises.
      (2)   A license issued or renewed after the effective date of this
division (J) shall be subject to suspension or revocation if the licensee’s
business becomes or creates a nuisance. A licensed business is or creates a
nuisance if within any consecutive 12 months not less than five separate
incidents occur on the licensed premises, involving acts that violate any
federal or state law defining a felony or any federal or state law or municipal
ordinance regulating narcotics, controlled substances or weapons. It is not a
defense to a charge of violating this division (J) that the licensee or the
licensee’s employees or agents were not personally involved in the commission
of the illegal acts.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.042 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   Within five days of receipt of an application for a public place of
amusement license, the Department of Revenue shall cause a written notice to be
sent to the alderman of the ward in which the premises described in the
application is located, providing the information specified in §
112.041(C) of this chapter and the current telephone number of the applicant.
   (B)   Within five days of receiving an application, the Department of
Revenue shall serve written notice by first class, registered or certified mail
on all legal voters residing within 250 feet of the location for which the
license is sought. The measurement of such area shall be made from the
boundaries of the premises described in the application for which the license
is sought, to a radius of 250 feet away. The notice shall identify the license
being sought and shall state the name and residence address of the applicant,
the street number and location of the premises for which the license is sought
and the date on which the application will be filed. The notice shall include
the language of division (D)(1) below.
   (C)   Within five days after filing an application, the applicant shall
cause to be posted at the location of the premises for which the license is
sought, in a place clearly visible from the public way, a notice stating that
an application has been made for a public place of amusement license, the date
the application was filed, the name and residence address of the applicant and
the street number and location of the premises covered by the application. The
notice shall also include the language of division (D)(1) below.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Within 30 days of the filing of an application for a
public place of amusement license, no less than a majority of the legal voters
residing within 250 feet of the location for which the license is sought may
file a petition with the Department of Revenue requesting the Department to
deny the license on the grounds that:
            1.   The license would cause substantial injury to the value of the
property in the neighborhood in which it is to be located;
            2.   The license would have an adverse effect on other commercial
or industrial enterprises in the surrounding area;
            3.   The license would have an adverse effect on traffic-flow or
parking within the surrounding area; or
            4.   The license would have an adverse effect on the character of
the surrounding neighborhood because of the hours of operation of use.
         (b)   To be considered the petition shall be delivered no later than
30 days after the date on which the application for the license was filed and
shall include the residence address of each person whose signature appears on
the petition.
      (2)   After the petition signatures have been validated, the Revenue
Director shall set a hearing date and shall provide notice of the hearing to
the license applicant, to the voters listed on the petition and to the Alderman
of the ward in which the premises sought to be licensed is located. Notice
shall be sent by first class, registered or certified mail. The Revenue
Director shall cause to be published, in a daily newspaper of general
circulation in the village, a notice stating that a public hearing has been
scheduled regarding the application for a public place of amusement license
setting forth the address of the premises sought to be licensed and the date,
time and location of the hearing. The hearing shall be commenced no later than
30 days after validated signatures have been received by the Department of
Revenue. The Revenue Director or his or her designee may deny the license, upon
a showing of due cause, for any of the grounds listed in divisions (D)(1)(a)1.
through (D)(1)(a)4. above. A decision denying the application for a license may
be appealed by the applicant to the Department of Revenue’s Adjudication
Division.
      (3)   This section shall not limit the authority of the village or a
department or agency of the village to seek denial of an application on the
basis of other applicable law.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.043 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No license shall be issued for any place within 200 feet of any
church, hospital or building used exclusively for educational purposes, unless
the place to be licensed has been established as a public place of amusement
before the establishment of the church, hospital or educational institution.
Said distance shall be measured from the nearest point of the premises for
which application for license has been made and the nearest point of the
church, hospital or educational institution.
      (2)   This prohibition shall not apply to a performing arts venue, as
defined in §
112.065 of this chapter.
   (B)   The restrictions described in division (A) above shall not prohibit
the issuance of a license to operate a public place of amusement within a
licensed hotel having accommodations for more than 150 guests, or within a
restaurant with an occupancy of more than 100 persons, if the building in which
the public place of amusement is to be located is at least ten stories in
height, and if neither the public place of amusement, nor the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises is the principal business conducted
within the licensed premises.
   (C)   (1)   No public place of amusement license shall be granted to any
establishment that is located within 125 feet of any R1, R2 or R3 Zoning
District, as defined in Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances, except for a
renewal license for property that was duly licensed as a public place of
amusement on the effective date of this division (C), if any, and except as
permitted as an authorized variation.
      (2)   The 125-foot distance shall be measured from the nearest property
line of the public place of amusement to the nearest property line of the R1,
R2 or R3 Zoning District. The restriction imposed by this division (C) shall
not apply to a performing arts venue, as defined in §
112.065 of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.044 WRITTEN GUARANTY REQUIRED.
   Before any license is issued, the applicant shall execute a written
undertaking conditioned that the taxes imposed upon any amusement at the
licensed premises will be paid in the manner and at the times provided in §
112.002 of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.045 OCCUPANCY ENFORCEMENT.
   No public place of amusement license shall be issued unless the applicant
certifies that, since the issuance of the most recent license and the most
recent occupancy sign required to be posted on the licensed premises pursuant
to the appropriate fire codes (as adopted by the village as the official Fire
Code), neither the applicant nor any other person has made any modifications or
alterations affecting the layout, floor plan, doorways, stairways, interior
separations or other features of the subject premises that may affect occupancy
limits.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.046 EXIT DIAGRAM.
   The licensee of every public place of amusement shall post diagrams, drawn
to scale, showing the locations of the exits. For every public place of
amusement that is located in a building or part of a building, the diagrams
shall be posted in the same locations as the occupancy signs required under
this section. For any public place of amusement that is a park or other outdoor
venue that is enclosed by a fence or other enclosure, the diagrams shall be
conspicuously posted in the entrance to the park or outdoor venue.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.047 TICKET SALES.
   It is unlawful for any licensee to sell or permit any person to sell any
ticket of admission to the licensed premises unless it has conspicuously
printed upon its face the price of admission.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.048 SPECIFIC BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the licensee of any motion picture theater to
exhibit on a billboard, placed in front of the building or other structure in
which such show is given and such motion pictures are exhibited, the title to
the pictures, which title shall either be full enough to describe in general
terms the nature and character of the picture or pictures to be shown, or shall
be accompanied by other explanatory wording, pictures or other advertising
matter so as to describe the said picture or pictures.
   (B)   No such licensee shall place, maintain or allow to be placed or
maintained in front of or in connection with any such place any sign, picture
or other announcement which in any manner misstates or misrepresents the
picture or other amusements which are being shown in said place, or which
announces a picture or other form of amusement or entertainment which is not,
at the time such announcement is displayed, being shown and exhibited in said
place.
   (C)   See §
112.126(B) of this chapter for provisions pertaining to minors and hours of
operation.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to conduct or permit any
person to conduct any exhibition where the intent or outcome of the exhibition
or match is to injure or harm one of the contestants and the exhibition is
unregulated by the state. The terms of the section may be enforced by the
Village Prosecuting Attorney through injunction or any other suit, action or
proceeding at law or in equity.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any licensee to conduct or permit any person to
conduct any raffle, lottery or chance distribution of money, or article of
value, or any gilt enterprise or any form of gambling upon the licensed
premises.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.049 LIABILITY FOR CERTAIN ADDITIONAL VILLAGE SERVICES.
   (A)   The business entity benefitting from the traffic management services
provided by the village in connection with an event presented at a conference
or exhibition facility shall pay to the village an amount equal to the sum of
100% of the non-overtime hourly rate for village police officers, for each hour
of time worked by a police officer in providing traffic management services
related to the event.
   (B)   No later than 30 days before an event to be held in a conference or
exhibition facility, the business entity benefitting from traffic management
services shall notify the Police Chief and the Director of the Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA) of the date, time and nature of the event,
and the teams or other entities participating in the event.
   (C)   The Police Department and ESDA shall maintain a record of the hours
worked by police officers in providing traffic management services related to
an event at a qualifying exhibition facility. The records shall indicate the
date, location and nature of each event; the number of police officers, if any,
providing traffic management services related to the event and the total number
of hours worked by those police officers. At the end of each calendar quarter,
the records shall be delivered to the Department of Revenue, which shall issue
separate bills to each business entity benefitting from traffic services. The
business entity shall pay the amount billed no later than 30 days after the
date of mailing indicated on the bill. Amounts due under this section shall
constitute a debt due and owing the village.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.050 SPECIAL EVENT ALLOWANCE.
   An establishment may host up to six special events in a 12-month period
before a public place of amusement license is required. The event organizers
must be a recognized not-for-profit corporation and must obtain all necessary
food, liquor and special event licenses from the Department of Revenue. The
establishment must have passed an inspection from the Department of Buildings
and the Bureau of Fire Prevention. Private events where no admission fee,
minimum purchase requirement, membership fee or other fee or charge is imposed
for the privilege of entering the premises or the portion of premises where the
event is held and that are not advertised to the public shall not constitute as
special event for purposes of this section.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.051 SUBJECT TO TAXATION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to impose a tax upon any
person, business or activity which, under the Constitutions of the United
States or the state, may not be made the subject of taxation by the village.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
PERFORMING ARTS
§ 112.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any terms not
defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to it in other ordinances of the
municipality, and if not defined in any other municipal ordinances, it shall
have the meaning ascribed in the state statutes.
   PERFORMANCE SPACE. The portion of the premises where the live theatrical or
other live cultural performance is provided or permitted, and does not include
any hallway, lobby or public restroom.
   PERFORMING ARTS VENUE. A building or portion thereof in which the aggregate
maximum occupancy of all performance spaces within the building is less than
500 persons and which is used by an organization for live theatrical and other
live cultural performances. If the organization is operating as an incidental
use in a building that is primarily used in the conduct of activities of a
religious, philanthropic, educational, eleemosynary or other not-for-profit
organization, the aggregate maximum occupancy of all performance spaces within
the building shall be less than 1,000 persons.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 112.066 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee or manager of any property,
or for any other person, to produce, present or conduct thereon, any amusement
within a performing arts venue unless the owner, lessee or manager of such
property has first obtained a performing arts venue license. Such license shall
be known as an “arts venue license”.
   (B)   (1)   The arts venue license shall be a special class of public place
of amusement license and shall be subject to the same restrictions and
requirements as a public place of amusement license, except as set forth in
this subchapter.
      (2)   In the event of a conflict between the general public place of
amusement license provisions and the provisions of this subchapter, the
provisions of this subchapter shall apply.
   (C)   (1)   No arts venue license shall be required if the only amusement to
be produced, presented or conducted is:
         (a)   Offered in a performance space with a capacity of less than 100
persons; and
         (b)   No admission fee, minimum purchase requirement, membership fee
or other fee or charge is imposed for the privilege of entering the premises or
the portion of premises where the amusement is provided or permitted.
      (2)   (a)   Donations that are solicited strictly on a voluntary basis
may be accepted by a venue under this division (C) only if the venue posts a
sign, no less than eight and one-half inches by eleven inches, in a conspicuous
place near the entrance of the venue stating.
         (b)   Under this section, this performing arts venue may not charge an
admission fee, minimum purchase requirement, membership fee or other fee or
charge imposed for the privilege of entering the premises.
         (c)   Any donations are purely voluntary.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.067 LICENSE APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   (A)   (1)   An application for an arts venue license shall be made in
conformity with the general requirements of this chapter relating to
applications for licenses. Said application shall be signed under oath by the
owner of the business for which a license is sought.
      (2)   If the owner is a corporation, the application shall be signed by
an authorized officer of the corporation. If the owner is a limited liability
company managed by managers, the application shall be signed by a manager. If
the owner is a limited liability company managed by members, the application
shall be signed by a member.
   (B)   The application shall set forth the location and a description of the
property used or intended for use as a performing arts venue, indicating the
estimated occupancy, the estimated seating capacity and the floor area or
ground area of the place, the types of amusements which the applicant intends
to conduct on the property, and shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, residence address and current telephone number of the
applicant in the case of an individual; in the case of a partnership, the
names, residence addresses and percentage of interest therein of the three
members who own the highest percentage interest in such partnership and of any
other member who holds a 25% or more interest therein; in the case of a limited
partnership, the names, residence addresses and percentage interest therein of
each general partner thereof, in the case of a corporation, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, a summary of its
activities during the past year, and the names, and residences addresses of its
principal officers, those stockholders who own 25% or more of its voting
shares; in the case of a limited liability company, the date of its formation,
the objects for which it was organized, a summary of its activities during the
past year and the names, residence addresses and percentage of interest of the
three members who own the highest percentage interests in such limited
liability company, of any other member who holds a 25% or more interest therein
and, if the limited liability company is manager-managed, the names and
residence addresses of all managers. If the applicant is a partnership, limited
partnership, corporation or limited liability company, the applicant shall also
provide the current telephone number of its authorized agent;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of the premises. If the premises
are leased:
         (a)   A copy of the current lease, unless the applicant already has a
lease for premises on file with the Department of Revenue and no changes have
been made to the lease since it was filed;
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the
premises, including the name and address of the beneficiary if title to the
premises is held by a person as trustee and if known to the applicant;
         (c)   The name, address and telephone number of the manager of the
premises; and
         (d) A statement as to whether the applicant has made application for a
similar license on premises other than that described in the application and
the disposition of such application.
      (3)   If a change in any information required in this section occurs at
any time during a license period, the licensee shall file a statement, executed
in the same manner as an application, indicating the nature and effective date
of the change. The supplemental statement shall be filed within 60 days after
the change takes effect. The Revenue Director shall take measures to prevent
disclosure of confidential information required under this section and not
subject to disclosure under the state’s Freedom of Information Act to persons
outside the government.
(Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006)
SWEEPSTAKES KIOSKS
§ 112.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BONA FIDE PRODUCT. Any item of real value, which may include vouchers or
coupons, to be used for or towards the purchase of a retail item. BONA FIDE
PRODUCT does not include Internet access, a telephone card, a calling card or a
phone card.
   INSTANT REVEAL. The results of the outcome of a prize offer or reward are
immediately displayed.
   INTERNET ACCESS. A connection of individual computer terminals, computers,
mobile devices and computer services, such as email and the world wide web.
   NET REVENUES. Revenues derived from a sweepstakes kiosk minus the cost of
prizes paid to participants.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation or other entity doing business in
the village.
   SWEEPSTAKES. The promotion of products whether through a written or
electronic manner.
   SWEEPSTAKES KIOSKS or ELECTRONIC PRODUCT PROMOTIONS SWEEPSTAKE KIOSK. Any
electronic video machine which, upon the insertion of payment, is used to
purchase a bona fide product from a sponsor and offers or awards a prize as a
means to promote that sponsor and is otherwise consistent with the Act, para.
(13) of subs. (b) of § 28-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/28-
1 as now or hereafter amended, and the Video Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40/1 et
seq. as now or hereafter amended, and is not capable of connecting directly or
indirectly to the Internet, either by hardwire or wireless connection, or to a
set of interconnected networked devices.
   TELEPHONE CARD, CALLING CARD or PHONE CARD. Any stored-value system capable
of being discarded when depleted or recharged for reuse and utilized to place a
telephone call.
(Ord. 15-023, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 112.081 REGULATION; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for a person to operate sweepstakes kiosks without first
obtaining a license from the village.
(Ord. 15-023, passed 7-6-2015) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.082 ELIGIBILITY.
   Only persons holding a valid liquor license from the village are eligible
for the issuance of a license under this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-023, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 112.083 ANNUAL FEE; TAX.
   (A)   The annual license fee for each electronic product promotion
sweepstakes kiosk is $500.
   (B)   A monthly tax of 5% of net revenues from each electronic product
promotion sweepstakes kiosk is hereby assessed.
(Ord. 15-023, passed 7-6-2015; Ord. 17-034, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 112.084 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to operate on any premises more than five
electronic product promotion sweepstakes kiosks at any one time.
   (B)   No electronic product promotion sweepstakes kiosk shall be capable of
connecting directly to the Internet, either by hardwire or wireless connection,
or to a set of interconnected networked devices, and nothing in this subchapter
may be construed to permit any person to knowingly establish, maintain, or
operate an Internet site that permits a person to play a game of chance or
skill for money or other thing of value by means of the Internet or to make a
wager upon the result of any game, contest, political nomination, appointment
or election by means of the Internet in violation of item (12) of subs. (a) of
§ 28-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/28-1 as now or hereafter
amended.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to operate an electronic product
promotion sweepstakes kiosk where the sale of a product is subterfuge for
gambling. A subterfuge shall be the sale of Internet access, a telephone card,
a calling card or a phone card.
   (D)   Electronic product promotion sweepstakes kiosks shall provide the
option of an instant reveal of the outcome of any prize offer or award.
(Ord. 15-023, passed 7-6-2015) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.085 ILLEGAL GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall in any way be construed to authorize,
license or permit any gambling devices whatsoever or any mechanism that has
been judicially determined to be a gambling device or in any way contrary to
law or that may be contrary to any future laws of the village and the state.
(Ord. 15-023, passed 7-6-2015)
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND VIDEO GAMBLING TERMINALS
§ 112.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine which, upon the insertion of a
coin, slug, token, plate or disc, or payment of a fee, may be operated by the
public generally for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not
registering a score. It shall include such devices as marble machines, pinball
machines, foosball, skill ball, mechanical grab machines and all games,
operations or transactions similar thereto under whatever name they may be
indicated.
   VIDEO GAMBLING TERMINAL. The same meaning as “video gaming terminal”, as set
forth in the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., as amended. For purposes
of this subchapter, all other definitions and requirements of the Video Gaming
Act as in force and effect in the state are hereby incorporated into this
section by reference.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 112.101 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who owns a video gaming terminal for use in the village
shall obtain a video gambling terminal operator’s license.
   (B)   Any person who owns any place of business in which a video gambling
terminal is located shall obtain a video gambling terminal establishment
license.
   (C)   Any person located in the village who manufactures, distributes or
supplies video gambling terminals who does not have a video gambling terminal’s
operator’s license shall obtain a video gambling terminal supplier’s license.
   (D)   Any person displaying for public patronage or keeping for operation
any mechanical amusement device or video gambling terminal, as herein defined
by §
112.100 of this chapter, shall before such person displays such device or
terminal, file with the Department of Administrative Services of the village an
application for a license for each such device or terminal and be required to
obtain a license from the village, upon payment of a license fee. Any person
who displays any video gambling terminal to be played or operated by the public
shall as a prerequisite to receiving any license from the village have a valid
license from the state for each such terminal, and the loss or suspension of
any such license by the state shall automatically result in the same status
from the license issued hereunder without a refund of any license fee.
   (E)   For each video gambling terminal to be located in the village, an
application for license shall be filed by the following, as may be applicable:
      (1)   The holder of the liquor license for the premises of a licensed
establishment. A licensed establishment is any licensed retail establishment
where alcoholic liquor is served for consumption on the premises;
      (2)   An authorized representative of the licensed truck stop. A licensed
truck stop establishment is a facility of at least three acres with a
convenience store, separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor
vehicles and parking spaces for commercial vehicles;
      (3)   An authorized representative of the licensed fraternal
organization. A licensed fraternal establishment is a location where a
fraternal organization that derives its charter from its national parent
organization regularly meets; and
      (4)   An authorized representative of the licensed veteran’s
organization. A licensed veteran’s establishment is a location where a
qualified veteran’s organization that holds a charter from its national parent
organization regularly meets.
   (F)   There is hereby imposed, on the privilege of operating every video
gambling terminal in the village, an annual license requirement and fee:
      (1)   Video gambling terminal operator’s license;
      (2)   Video gambling terminal supplier’s license;
      (3)   A video gambling terminal establishment license; and
      (4)   A video gambling terminal license for each video gambling terminal.
   (G)   Not more than one mechanical amusement device or video gambling
terminal shall be operated under one amusement device or video gambling
terminal license and the applicant or licensee shall be required to secure a
license for each and every machine displayed or operated by him or her.
   (H)   The approving authority shall be the Mayor.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.102 LICENSE APPLICATION; LIMITATIONS ON VIDEO GAMBLING TERMINALS.
   (A)   Application by any persons desiring to display in the village any
amusement machine or device or video gambling terminal shall make application
for such appropriate license to the Department of Administrative Services upon
a form to be supplied by the Department of Administrative Services for that
purpose.
   (B)   The application for such license shall be accompanied by the required
license fee and/or tax and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address, age, date and place of birth of applicant;
      (2)   Place where machine or device is to be displayed or operated and
the business conducted at that place;
      (3)   Description of amusement machine or device, or video gambling
terminal to be displayed on the premises where such amusement device or video
gambling terminal will be located, the mechanical features, name of
manufacturer and serial number and such other data or information as the
village may require;
      (4)   The applicant shall include a copy of the license from the state
for each video gambling terminal on the premises; and
      (5)   Video gambling terminals may not be operated or played during the
hours alcoholic liquor sales are prohibited by village ordinance.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 112.103 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to any applicant unless he or she shall be
over 21 years of age and a citizen of the United States.
   (B)   Every establishment licensed to sell alcoholic liquor shall comply
with all provisions of the state’s Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., and
all rules, regulations and restrictions imposed by the state’s Gaming Board.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 112.104 INVESTIGATIONS; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   A copy of the application for license shall be made out in
duplicate, one copy being referred to the village’s Police Department and the
other copy to the village’s Building Inspection Department.
      (2)   The Police Department and the Building Department shall investigate
the location wherein it is proposed to operate such machine, ascertain if the
applicant is a good person or good moral character and either approve or
disapprove the application.
      (3)   The Building Department shall inspect all wiring connections to the
machine, determine if the same complies with the Electrical Code of the
village, and shall either approve or disapprove the application.
   (B)   No license shall be submitted to the Mayor for issuance to any
applicant unless first approved by the Police Department and the Building
Department.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the proper application, upon approval from the
appropriate departments, and upon the payment of license fee(s) as herein
provided, the Mayor shall issue the appropriate license for each such device or
terminal, which license shall be issued for a period of one year from May 1 to
April 30 in the ensuing year.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 112.105 LICENSE FEES.
   Every applicant, before being granted an amusement device or video gambling
terminal license, shall pay an annual license fee as provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances for the privilege of operating or
maintaining for operation each mechanical amusement device or video gambling
terminal, as defined in §
112.100 of this chapter.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 112.106 NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED.
   (A)   Amusement device. The Mayor shall be authorized to issue a license for
a mechanical amusement device, if the applicant otherwise qualifies as provided
in this code, in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   One license for the first 2,000 square feet of floor area in the
premises in which the mechanical device is located or fraction thereof; and
      (2)   One additional license for each 1,500 square feet of floor area
over and above 2,000 square feet.
   (B)   Video gambling terminal. The Mayor shall be authorized to issue a
license/permit for establishments licensed to sell alcoholic liquor and
licensed to operate a video gambling terminal by the state’s Gaming Board
pursuant to the provisions of the state’s Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et
seq., for each video gambling terminal, if the applicant otherwise qualifies as
provided in this code, as follows: no more than five video gambling terminals
may be located on any premises licensed to sell alcoholic liquors. No more than
six video gambling terminals may be located on any premises licensed to sell
alcoholic liquors. In the event that any of the licensed premises shall no
longer display video gambling terminal license to be played or operated by the
public for any video gambling terminal, for any reason, the number of licensed
video gambling terminals authorized to be played or operated by the public on
those premises shall automatically and immediately be reduced by one. The
licensee shall immediately notify the village if for any reason the licensee is
no longer displaying a license for a video gambling terminal.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 20-004, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 112.107 LICENSE TRANSFER.
   (A)   Amusement device. Such license may be transferred from one machine or
device to another similar machine located on the same premises and owned by the
same applicant upon application to the Department of Administrative Services to
such effect and giving of a description and the serial number of the new
machine or amusement device; provided that, any and all such amusement devices
so displayed at any one time on such premises shall be licensed as provided
herein.
   (B)   Video gambling terminal. A video gambling terminal license is not
transferable.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 112.108 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license for each amusement device or video gambling terminal shall
be in the form of a gummed sticker, which shall be serially numbered and shall
be securely affixed in plain view to the device for which it is issued.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a video gambling terminal in the
village without a valid video gambling sticker affixed thereon.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.109 GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall in any way be construed to authorize,
license or permit any gambling devices whatsoever, or any mechanism that has
been judicially determined to be a gambling device, or in any way contrary to
law, or that may be contrary to any future laws of the village and the state,
except for devices and equipment licensed and operated in accordance with the
Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
   (B)   (1)   No license shall be issued for any amusement device or video
gambling terminal which violates the laws of the state or the ordinances of the
village.
      (2)   All amusement devices and/or video gambling terminals shall be
available for inspection by the proper village authorities for the purpose of
ascertaining and declaring whether such laws are being complied with.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 112.110 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   Every license issued under this subchapter is subject to the right,
which is hereby expressly reserved, of revocation of the same should the
licensee, directly or indirectly, permit the operation of any mechanical
amusement device or video gambling terminal contrary to the provisions of this
section, the ordinances of the village or the law of the state.
   (B)   Said license may be revoked by the Mayor and Board of Trustees after
written notice to the licensee, which notice shall specify the ordinance or law
violations with which the licensee is charged, if, after a hearing, the
licensee is found to be guilty of such violations.
   (C)   Ten days’ notice of the hearing shall be given the licensee.
   (D)   At such hearing, the licensee and his or her attorney may be present
and submit evidence of witnesses in his or her defense.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 112.111 ALLOWING TO FREQUENT OR REMAIN IN PUBLIC AREAS OF ESTABLISHMENTS WITH
VIDEO GAMBLING TERMINALS.
   (A)   Video gambling shall be located in an area that is restricted to
persons over 21 years of age.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provisions of this subchapter, no licensee of a
mechanical amusement device or video gambling establishment or terminal shall
permit or allow any person under 21 years of age to frequent or remain in any
area within the licensee’s place of business which is open to the general
public.
(Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 112.112 BAGATELLE AND PIGEONHOLE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BAGATELLE or PIGEONHOLE. A game played with any number of balls or
spheres upon a table or board having holes, pickets or cups into which such
balls or spheres may drop or become lodged and having arches, pins and springs,
or any of them, to control, deflect or impede the direction or speed of the
balls or spheres put in motion by the player, and shall include the modern
variety of bagatelle or pigeonhole commonly known as PIN GAMES.
      PLACE OF PUBLIC RESORT. Any premises wherein any service or merchandise
is offered for sale to the public or where tables or implements for playing the
game of bagatelle or pigeonhole are kept for gain or profit, or any premises
used as a clubhouse or clubrooms.
   (B)   Use in public places prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to keep or use in any place of public resort within the village any tables or
implements for any game of bagatelle or pigeonhole.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-2) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.113 COIN-OPERATED MUSIC DEVICES.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to locate,
install, keep, maintain or use, or permit the location, installation,
maintenance or use upon his or her premises of any automatic or coin-controlled
or coin-operated music box or device which furnishes what is commonly called
“canned music” without first having obtained a license therefor.
   (B)   Application for license. The application shall state the location of
the place where such music box or device is located and the number of such
boxes at such location.
   (C)   License fee. A license shall be obtained for each such music box or
device operated and the annual license, fee for such businesses shall be
established by ordinance as set forth in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Unlawful use of device. It shall be unlawful to use such coin-
controlled musical devices in a manner which interferes with the health, peace
and comfort of any person in the neighborhood thereof; such use is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-3) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986) Penalty, see §
112.999
RAFFLES
§ 112.125 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL. An organization or institution which is organized and operated
to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods
common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their
scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported
schools.
   FRATERNAL. An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is both to promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
   LABOR. An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
   NET PROCEEDS. Gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   NON-PROFIT. An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to any one as a result of the
operation.
   RAFFLES. A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2(b) of the Illinois Criminal
Code of 1961, being 720 ILCS 5/28-2(b) as now or hereafter amended, conducted
by an organization licensed under this subchapter in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery; except that, the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   RELIGIOUS. Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS. An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
(Prior Code, § 3-21-1)
§ 112.126 LICENSING.
   (A)   Location. Sales of raffle chances shall be only at locations
designated in the license application and which are within the borders of the
village.
   (B)   Eligibility for license. Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide
religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational or veterans organizations
that operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years immediately before making application
for a license and which have had, during that entire four-year period, a bona
fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives.
   (C)   Duration of license. Licenses shall permit the applicant to issue or
sell raffle chances only for those dates stated in the license application, but
in no event shall the period of sales exceed 180 days. Each license is valid
for one raffle only.
   (D)   Maximum value of prizes.
      (1)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by
a licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed $150,000.
      (2)   The retail value of each individual prize awarded by a licensee in
a single raffle shall not exceed $150,000.
   (E)   Price of chances. The price charged for each raffle chance sold or
issued shall not exceed $250.
(Prior Code, § 3-21-2)
§ 112.127 LICENSE; APPLICATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct a raffle without having first obtained a
license therefor.
   (B)   Each application for a licence shall be in writing upon forms provided
by the village and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of individual making application;
      (2)   Name and address of organization applying for a license;
      (3)   Approximate number of members of the organization that reside in
the village and the length of existence of the organization;
      (4)   Name and address of the raffle manager;
      (5)   The location(s) at which raffle chances are to be sold or issued;
      (6)   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      (7)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be sold;
      (8)   The time of determination of winning chances;
      (9)   The location(s) at which winning chances will be determined;
      (10)   A sworn statement signed by the presiding officer and secretary,
if there is one, of the organization attesting to the not-for-profit character
of the organization, and attesting to the fact the organization is not
otherwise ineligible to receive a license; and
      (11)   Such other information as the village may require.
   (C)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by payment of a
fee of $10.
   (D)   Application for licenses shall be submitted to the village. The
village shall act to either issue or deny the license within 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 3-21-3) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.128 INELIGIBILITY.
   The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (A),
(B) or (C) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest or in which
such a person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not; and
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle.
(Prior Code, § 3-21-4)
§ 112.129 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person, except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization,
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this subchapter.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only at the locations specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   (F)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 3-21-5) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.130 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall keep records of
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single gathering or
occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions from gross
receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented with
receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased
item or service or other reason for the deduction and the recipient. The
distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and
date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same non-profit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the state
and placed in a separate account. Each organization should have separate
records for its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses
and net proceeds from the operation of raffles should not be the same person
who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to-conduct raffles shall report monthly to
its membership, and to the village, its gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from raffles and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required
by this section.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Prior Code, § 3-21-6)
§ 112.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
112.007 of this chapter shall be fined as stated in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Every day such violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   (1)   The owner, manager, licensee or person in control of premises
where an automatic amusement device, as per §§
112.020 through
112.027 of this chapter, is used for illegal gambling shall be subject to a
fine of $5,000 for each device so used. Any person violating any other
provision of §§
112.020 through
112.027 of this chapter, by possession or use of an illegal amusement device,
shall be fined not less than $500, nor more than $1,000, for each offense.
Every day such violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense. Fines under this division (C) shall be in addition to suspension or
revocation of business licenses issued under this code or ordinances and, in
addition, to confiscation and destruction of illegal amusement devices.
      (2)   Upon a third violation of the provisions of §§
112.020 through
112.027 of this chapter, relating to possession or use of an illegal amusement
device occurring on the same premises for a period of five years, all village
licenses issued for business activity on those premises shall be revoked, and
no automatic amusement device may be placed on the premises for a period of one
year from the date of revocation. Nothing in this division (C) limits the
authority of the Mayor to revoke a license on a licensee’s first or second
violation during such period. For purposes of this division (C)(2), “licensee”
includes an “employee or agent of a licensee”.
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
112.040 through
112.051 of this chapter for which no other penalty is specified shall be fined
not less than $200, nor more than $500, for each offense. Every day such
violation shall continue shall be regarded as a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   Each person found in violation of §
112.041(A) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $10,000.
   (E)   (1)   Any person convicted of the offense of violating any of the
provisions of §§
112.100 through
112.111 of this chapter, in addition to the revocation of his or her or its
license, shall be liable to a fine or penalty according to the provisions of §
10.999 of this code of ordinances for violation not less than $250, nor more
than $750. Each day an offense occurs or continues shall be considered a new
offense.
      (2)   In the event of a revocation or denial of any license under §§
112.100 through
112.111 of this chapter, such person shall not be issued any license provided
for in §§
112.100 through
112.111 of this chapter for one calendar year following the date of revocation
or any appeal thereof.
   (F)   It is hereby made the duty of every police officer to seize any table
or implement kept or used in violation of §
112.112 of this chapter and, upon conviction of the keeper thereof, such table
or implement so seized shall be destroyed. Any person violating §
112.112 of this chapter shall be fined according to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-2)
   (G)   Any person that violates any provision of §§
112.125 through
112.130 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 3-21-7)
(Ord. 90-103, passed 1-30-1990; Ord. 06-342, passed 5-15-2006; Ord. 09-468,
passed 3-2-2009)
CHAPTER 113: AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS
Section
   
113.001   License required
   
113.002   License application; fee
   
113.003   Bond
   
113.004   License transfer; change of location
   
113.005   Locations of auctions
   
113.006   Prohibited acts and conditions
§ 113.001 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All sales of real and personal property at public auction within the
village, except such as are made under and by virtue of legal process, shall be
made by a person who shall first obtain a license for such purpose as provided
herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1)
§ 113.002 LICENSE APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Every person desiring to obtain a license for the sale of real and
personal property at public auction shall set forth in the application the
location of his or her proposed place of business and the names of the surety.
   (B)   The fee for such license shall be as provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2)
§ 113.003 BOND.
   Any person may become an auctioneer and be licensed to sell real and
personal property at public auction at a place to be named in the license upon
paying to the Village Clerk the fee required by this chapter and executing a
bond to the village with two sureties to be approved by the Village President
in the penal sum of $1,000 conditioned for the observance of this chapter and
the other provisions of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3)
§ 113.004 LICENSE TRANSFER; CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   In no case shall the license for the sale of real or personal property at
public auction within the village be transferable or the place of business
changed without the consent in writing of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 113.005 LOCATIONS OF AUCTIONS.
   (A)   No goods, wares, merchandise or any other thing whatever shall be sold
or exposed for sale at auction in any street, avenue, alley or public place in
the village.
   (B)   All auctions shall be held or conducted in the store, warehouse or
other proper place which shall be so arranged and none of the bidders or
bystanders will be compelled to or required to stand or remain on the street or
sidewalk in front of such warehouse, store or other place in such a manner to
obstruct free travel.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-5) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 113.006 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Devices for attracting attention. No bellman or cryer, nor any drum or
other instrument of music, nor any show, signal or means of attracting
attention of passers, other than a sign or flag, shall be employed or permitted
to be used at any place of sale or at any auction room or near any auction
whatsoever.
   (B)   False representation. Any auctioneer or person present when any
article is offered for sale who shall knowingly, with the intent to induce any
person to purchase the same or any part thereof, make any false representation
or statement as to the ownership of or the character or quality of the article
offered for sale, or as to the poverty or circumstances of the owner or
pretended owner of such article shall, on conviction, be punished by a fine as
set forth in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances, and his or her license shall be forfeited.
   (C)   Substitution of articles. Any auctioneer who shall exhibit and offer
for sale at auction any article and induce its purchase by any bidder and who
shall afterwards substitute any article in lieu of that offered to and
purchased by the bidder shall forfeit his or her license and be punished by a
fine as set forth in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances and the license of such auctioneer shall be
revoked.
   (D)   False bids. Any auctioneer who shall procure any person to make a
fictitious bid at any auction sale of real or personal property, or who shall
conspire with any person to make a fictitious bid at any such auction sale, or
who shall knowingly permit any person to make a fictitious bid at any such
auction sale, or any auctioneer who shall himself or herself fictitiously raise
any bid at any such auction sale shall be punished by a fine as set forth in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances, and the license of such auctioneer shall be
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-6) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 114: COMMERCIAL SALES AND SERVICES
Section
Flea Markets
   
114.001   Definitions
   
114.002   Private flea markets; permit required
   
114.003   Conduct of sale
   
114.004   Permit revocation and refusal
   
114.005   Public flea markets
Landscape and Lawn Care Professionals
   
114.020   Definitions
   
114.021   License required
   
114.022   License denial, suspension or revocation
Tobacco
   
114.035   Definitions
   
114.036   License required
   
114.037   Basis for denial of license
   
114.038   Enforcement and administration
   
114.039   Prohibited sales and distribution
   
114.040   Responsibility
   
114.041   Other illegal acts
   
114.042   Compliance checks and operations
Junk Dealers and Junkyards
   
114.055   License required
   
114.056   License application; approval
   
114.057   License fees
   
114.058   Premises requirement; area limitation
   
114.059   License conditions
   
114.060   Stolen goods
Secondhand Stores
   
114.075   License required
   
114.076   License application; investigation
   
114.077   License fees
   
114.078   Records kept
Leasing and/or Management Agents
   
114.090   Definitions
   
114.091   Registration and business license required
   
114.092   Application of provisions
   
114.093   Application for business license
   
114.094   Restriction on issuance of business license
   
114.095   Term of business license
   
114.096   Payment and disposition of business license fees
   
114.097   Renewal of business licenses
   
114.098   Transfer of business license
   
114.099   Revocation of business license
   
114.100   Record of business licenses and revocations
   
114.101   Rules and regulations
Barber and Beauty Shops
   
114.115   Definitions
   
114.116   License required
   
114.117   License application
   
114.118   License fee
   
114.119   Sanitary conditions and requirements
Florists
   
114.130   Definition
   
114.131   License required
   
114.132   License application; fee
   
114.133   Health and safety requirements
Self-Service Laundries
   
114.145   License required
   
114.146   License application; fee
   
114.147   Sanitary conditions
   
114.148   Inspections
Retail Dry Cleaning Establishments
   
114.160   Definition
   
114.161   License required
   
114.162   License application; investigation
   
114.163   License fee
   
114.164   Fire prevention regulations
   
114.165   Sanitary conditions
   
114.166   Inspections
Coin-Operated Dry Cleaning Machine Plants
   
114.180   License required
   
114.181   License fee
   
114.182   Inspections
   
114.183   Requirements and regulations
Lumberyards
   
114.195   License required
   
114.196   Location
   
114.197   Fire and safety requirements
   
114.198   Inspections
Coal and Fuel Oil Dealers
   
114.210   License required
   
114.211   License application; fee
Warehouses
   
114.225   Definition
   
114.226   License required; inspection fee
   
114.227   Inspections
Cable Television
   
114.240   Adopting rules and regulations of FCC
   
114.241   Public hearing; notification
   
114.242   Review of rates
   
114.243   Review of service
   
114.244   Formal resolution
   
114.245   Authorization
   
114.246   Refund of rates
   
114.247   Violation
Unattended Collection Boxes
   
114.260   Definitions
   
114.261   Permits
   
114.262   Requirements and maintenance
   
114.263   Permit revocation; removal; liability
 
   
114.999   Penalty
FLEA MARKETS
§ 114.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLEA MARKET. A market, indoors or out of doors, where new or used items are
traded or sold from individual locations (stands, booths), with each location
being operated independently from other locations. Items sold include, but are
not limited to, household items, antiques, rare items, decorations, used books,
used magazines and prepackaged food items in sealed containers and not for
consumption at the market.
   FLEA MARKET SELLER. A person, firm or corporation selling items or offering
items for sale at flea market.
   PRIVATE FLEA MARKET. A flea market operated by a private person, firm or
corporation operating a flea market on non-residentially zoned private
property.
   PUBLIC FLEA MARKET. A flea market operated by the village on public
property.
(Ord. 15-032, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 114.002 PRIVATE FLEA MARKETS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Times. Private flea markets may be held from January 1 through
December 31. No flea market may be held on residentially-zoned property.
   (B)   Permit required. No person, firm or corporation shall operate the
business of renting space or allocating space to flea market sellers without
first obtaining a permit from the Village Clerk. Only one license shall be
required for each flea market location, and the individual flea market sellers
shall not be required to obtain a permit to lease/rent a space at said flea
market. The permit shall be good for one fiscal year, May 1 through April 30,
at any given location and shall set forth and restrict the time and location of
such flea market.
   (C)   Permit application. Each application for a permit shall be in writing
upon a form provided by the Village Clerk and filed in person with the Village
Clerk. The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, daytime telephone number and e-mail address of
person, firm, group, corporation, association or organization of the applicant;
      (2)   Name of owner of the property on which the flea market is to be
conducted, and consent of owner if applicant is other than the owner;
      (3)   Name, address, daytime telephone number and e-mail address of the
person supervising the flea market;
      (4)   Location where flea market is to be held;
      (5)   Date and nature of any past flea market;
      (6)   Evidence that applicant has satisfactory liability insurance issued
by a responsible insurance company authorized and licensed to do business in
the state, insuring such applicant against liability which such applicant may
incur in the operation of a flea market, and specifically designating the
village as an additional insured. The evidence of the insurance policy shall
indicate that the term of the insurance encompasses the period of the permit
sought;
      (7)   Relationship or connection applicant may have had with any other
person, form, group, organization, association or corporation conducting said
flea market and the date of such flea market; and
      (8)   Sworn statement or affirmation by the person signing the
application that the information therein given is full and true and known to
him or her to be so.
   (D)   Permit fee. The annual fee for a permit is $500 and shall be paid at
the time the application is filed with the Village Clerk.
   (E)   Separate permit for each location. A permit shall apply only to the
location described in the application and only one location shall be so
described in each permit. Permits are non-transferable.
   (F)   Posting of permits. The flea market permit shall be displayed in a
conspicuous place on the premises of the flea market where it can be readily
and distinctly seen by the public, the village inspector and the village
police.
   (G)   Records to be kept by permittee. Each person, firm or corporation
issued a permit under this subchapter shall keep accurate records of the names
and addresses of each flea market seller, together with a brief description of
the type or types of merchandise offered for sale by that seller. Such records
shall be made available to the village for inspection during regular business
hours.
(Ord. 15-032, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 114.003 CONDUCT OF SALE.
   (A)   Generally. The applicant and the owner or tenant of the location where
the flea market is conducted shall be jointly and severally responsible for the
maintenance of good order and decorum on the premises during all hours of such
flea market. Loud or boisterous conduct shall not be permitted and vehicles
shall not impede the passage of traffic on any roads or streets in the area of
the flea market. Reasonable orders of any member of the Village Police or Fire
Departments to maintain the public health, safety and welfare shall be obeyed.
   (B)   Unlawful transactions. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or
offer for sale, any of the following:
      (1)   Any type of drugs, drug paraphernalia, tobacco products of any kind
or pharmaceuticals, legal or otherwise, and alcohol;
      (2)   Firearms, working or not, ammunition or explosive devices, weapons
of any kind;
      (3)   Knives, dirks, daggers, folding knives with locking blades;
      (4)   Stolen merchandise;
      (5)   Live animals: no dogs or other live pets are allowed on the
premises, unless such animals are service animals;
      (6)   Videos, cassettes, DVDs, blue-rays and the like, which are pirated,
dubbed or in violation of copyright law;
      (7)   X-rated, pornographic materials, including, but not limited to,
printed materials, pictures, magazines and movies;
      (8)   Items that by sale, possession or use are in violation of village,
county, state or federal laws and any item that is misrepresented by the seller
in any way; and
      (9)   No food products shall be sold without a health permit or any types
of products such as pills of any kind, toothpaste, mouthwash, prepared food
products, beverages or alcoholic beverages. The village reserves the right to
approve all food vendors.
   (C)   Purchases from children. No flea market seller shall purchase any used
household item, antique or used article whatsoever from any person under the
age of 18, unless such person is accompanied by the person’s parent or
guardian.
   (D)   Hours of operation. Flea markets may remain open for business between
the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., unless otherwise specified on the permit
at the time of issuance.
   (E)   Signs and advertisements. All signs and advertisements shall be
conducted and posted in compliance with all applicable village laws and
ordinances. The Police Department may enforce such temporary controls to
alleviate any special hazards and/or congestion created by any flea market.
   (F)   Parking regulations. All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in
compliance with all applicable village laws and ordinances. The Police
Department may enforce such temporary controls to alleviate any special hazards
and/or congestion created by any flea market.
(Ord. 15-032, passed 8-3-2015) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.004 PERMIT REVOCATION AND REFUSAL.
   (A)   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be revoked or any
application for issuance of a permit may be refused by the village of the
application submitted by the applicant or permit holder contains any false,
fraudulent or misleading statements.
   (B)   If any individual, firm or corporation is convicted of an offense
under this subchapter, the existing flea market permit held by such individual,
firm or corporation shall be revoked and such individual, firm or corporation
shall not be issued a flea market permit for a period of two years from the
time of conviction.
(Ord. 15-032, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 114.005 PUBLIC FLEA MARKETS.
   The village may hold flea markets on public property at the Village Board’s
discretion. The fee for a flea market seller to operate a stall at any such
flea market shall be determined by the Village Board, at its discretion.
(Ord. 15-032, passed 8-3-2015)
LANDSCAPE AND LAWN CARE PROFESSIONALS
§ 114.020 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The language in the text of this subchapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction.
      (1)   The singular number includes the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
      (2)   The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is permissive.
      (3)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LANDSCAPE AND LAWN CARE PROFESSIONALS. Any person that employs one or
more individuals for the purpose of providing landscape maintenance for
clients, including, without limitation, the cultivating or beautifying of
gardens; the trimming of hedges, plants or grass; or the raking or sweeping of
debris and leaves.
      LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE. The improvement and/or maintenance of the
appearance of an area of land by planting and/or maintaining trees, shrubs,
grass or other plants and lawn ornaments; or by altering the contour of the
ground.
      LEAF BLOWER. A machine that blows air supplying forced drafts,
supercharging the air in order to move non-growing fallen leaves, foliage and/
or debris.
      LICENSEE. A holder of a landscape and lawn care professional’s license
issued by the village. In the operation of landscape maintenance, the term
LICENSEE shall include agents and employees of a licensee.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm or corporation.
      VEHICLE. Any motor-driven vehicle used by the licensee to transport a
work crew, equipment, yard waste and/or debris.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Dolton, Cook County, Illinois.
      YARD WASTE. Leaves with twig stems no longer than four inches, grass
clippings and similar garden debris and waste, tree branches, limbs and other
similar wood materials; unusable or unwanted substances of organic garden or
yard material.
(Ord. 03-219, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 114.021 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No landscape and lawn care professional shall engage in the business of the
care of lawns, shrubs, trees and any other occupation pertaining to landscape
maintenance without first securing a license from the village.
   (A)   General. Application for the license shall be made to administrative
services in Village Hall on forms provided by the village and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant; if the applicant is a
partnership, the application shall show for each partner his or her name and
address and interest, and all information required by divisions (A)(2) and (A)
(7) below. If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall show the
name and address of the registered agent, and with respect to each director,
and each shareholder owning 5% or more of the corporation’s shares his or her
name and address, together with the information required by division (A)(2)
below;
      (2)   The criminal record, if any, of the applicant;
      (3)   The number and kind of vehicles owned and controlled by the
applicant;
      (4)   The location of the applicant’s office and garage;
      (5)   The color scheme, insignia, trade name and telephone number located
upon and used to designate the vehicles of the applicant;
      (6)   A complete description of each vehicle including the year, make,
model and motor or factory number (“VIN”) of the vehicle;
      (7)   A statement that the applicant has received copies of, reviewed and
understands the applicable ordinances of the village and will promulgate same
and educate his or her employees thereof; and
      (8)   Such other information as the Board of Trustees of the village may
require from time to time.
   (B)   Required license of landscape and lawn care professionals. The fee for
the license shall be $75, non-refundable, per calendar year or fraction
thereof, and shall accompany the application therefore. The application fee
includes the cost of one landscape/lawn care vehicle sticker. There shall be a
$5 fee for each additional sticker and/or each transfer of vehicle stickers.
   (C)   Insurance. Evidence that the applicant is covered by a policy of
comprehensive general liability insurance, including bodily injury and property
damage. The applicant shall also submit proof to the village that it carries
adequate worker’s compensation and vehicle insurance; provided, however, that,
the village may waive this requirement if the landscape and lawn care
professional employs no more than two employees, including the landscape and
lawn care professional, and the village is otherwise satisfied with the
application. Proof of insurance will be periodically reviewed by the village
staff.
   (D)   Vehicle identification. Each vehicle operated by the licensee shall at
all times display:
      (1)   The information required by division (A)(5) above; and
      (2)   The landscape and lawn care professionals vehicle sticker issued by
the village at the time a license is granted pursuant to this subchapter, which
vehicle sticker shall be placed in the front driver’s side window of the
vehicle.
   (E)   Conditions. The landscape and lawn care professionals shall either:
      (1)   Remove all yard waste from the premises at the conclusion of each
work day; or
      (2)   Bag all yard waste in brown paper yard waste bags and place said
waste bags in rear of premises. Under no circumstances shall yard waste be left
on the premises in plastic garbage or plastic waste bags.
   (F)   Clientele list. The landscaping or lawn care professionals shall file
with the village on May 1, June 1, July 1, August 1, September 1 and October 1
of each year, a complete clientele list for all properties located within the
village corporate limits and receipts evidencing the proper disposal of yard
waste, if applicable. The village or any person certified by the Mayor, may
require inspection and examination of books and records in order to verify
information provided and for enforcement of this subchapter and collection of
any moneys due and owing to the village.
   (G)   Expiration. Each license shall expire on April 30 unless sooner
revoked as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 03-219, passed 4-21-2003; Ord. 03-223, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 114.022 LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The village may refuse to issue or renew, may suspend or revoke a
landscape and lawn care professional’s license or fine a licensee for any one
or more of the following reasons, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Engaging in the business of the care of lawns, shrubs, trees and
any other occupation pertaining to landscape maintenance without first securing
a landscape and lawn care professional’s license from the village;
      (2)   Failing to either remove yard waste from the premises upon the
conclusion of each work day, or failing to leave the yard waste in brown paper
yard waste bags in the rear of the premises;
      (3)   Leaving or blowing any form of debris, leaves, loose paper or yard
waste from landscaping or lawn care services from the subject yard or parkway,
onto the parkway, in the street, in the alley or on neighboring property;
      (4)   Violation of other village ordinances by the licensee concerning:
         (a)   Unauthorized dumping of debris;
         (b)   Use of back-pack leaf blowers between May 15 and October 1; and
         (c)   Any other ordinance pertaining to landscape maintenance.
      (5)   Inaccurate, false or misleading statements having been made by the
licensee in any application for any such license;
      (6)   The licensee having made substantial misrepresentation or false
promise of a character likely to influence or induce another in connection with
the business of landscaping; and/or
      (7)   Pursuit by the licensee of a continued course of making false
promises through advertising, salespersons and/or agents or making other
misrepresentations in connection with the business of landscaping.
   (B)   In the event the village suspends, revokes or fines any such licensee,
such licensee shall also forfeit his or her bond. The village shall not assess
a fine in excess of $500. No person whose license has been revoked may apply
for re-issuance of such license for a period of one year following the date of
such revocation.
(Ord. 03-219, passed 4-21-2003; Ord. 11-545, passed 12-5-2011)
TOBACCO
§ 114.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTE. To give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue or offer to give,
sell, deliver, dispense or issue, or cause to hire any person to give, sell,
deliver, dispense, issue or offer to give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED TOBACCO AND TOBACCO
PRODUCTS shall include, but not be limited to, manufacturer-sealed cigarette
packs, single bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single form, and
single cans or other packaging of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other
packaging containing more than a single pack or other container as described in
this definition shall not be considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
   LICENSEE. Any person who obtains a tobacco product retailer’s license under
this subchapter.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette or any other tobacco product that has been removed from its packaging
and sold individually. The term LOOSIES does not include individual cigars with
a retail price, before any sales taxes, stamped on the package.
   MINOR. Any person who is under the age of 18 years.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, joint
venture, personal representative, receiver, estate, trust, trustee, assignee,
any other group or combination acting as a unit, or any other legal entity,
except the federal government, the state and any political subdivision thereof.
   PHOTOGRAPHIC IDENTIFICATION. An officially issued card containing the
bearer’s date of birth and photograph that is accepted as proof of age under
state law.
   POINT-OF-SALE. A store, stand, building, vending machine or any other
separate place of business maintained by a seller from which tobacco products
are made available for sale or distribution to consumers. POINT-OF-SALE does
not include separate cash registers or service counters within a store or other
place of business.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any area to which the public is invited or permitted.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco-related devices are available for sale to the general public. The
phrase shall include, but not be limited to, tobacco shops, grocery stores,
convenience stores, restaurants, gasoline stations and drug stores.
   RETAILER. Any person who sells tobacco products to individuals for personal
consumption, or who operates a facility containing self-service displays of
tobacco products in the village.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products and
point-of- sale tobacco products that the public has access to, without the
intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee or other personnel. The
assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of tobacco
and tobacco products between an individual and the licensee or employee. SELF-
SERVICE SALES are interpreted as being any sale where there is not an actual
physical exchange of the product between the clerk and the customer.
   TAVERN. An enclosed place of business kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public as a place that primarily serves alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises and in which providing entertainment or the serving
of food is incidental or secondary to the sale of alcoholic beverages for
immediate consumption. Examples of businesses not deemed to be TAVERNS within
this definition include, but are not limited to, restaurants, catering halls,
bowling alleys, billiard parlors, dance halls, theaters and arenas.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any tobacco cigarette, cigar, pipe tobacco, smokeless
tobacco, snuff or any other product that contains tobacco leaf which may be
utilized for smoking, chewing, inhalation or other manner of ingestion.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT SAMPLE. Any tobacco product distributed to members of the
general public at no cost or nominal cost for the purpose of promoting the
product.
   TOBACCO SHOP. A tobacco retailer whose business exclusively or primarily
involves the sale of tobacco products and related goods.
   VENDING ASSISTED. Any mechanical, electronic, automated or self-service
device which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment,
dispenses cigarettes or any other tobacco product.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electronic, automated or self-service
device which, upon the assertion of money, tokens or other form of payment,
dispenses cigarettes or any other tobacco product.
(Ord. 16-005, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 114.036 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   License required. No person shall engage in the sale at retail of
cigarettes, cigars, tobacco in any form, tobacco products or tobacco-related
devices, without first obtaining a state license and a village license as
provided in this subchapter, or is an agent or employee of a person who has a
current valid license. A separate license must be obtained for each point-of-
sale maintained by the retailer.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products and tobacco-related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
village’s Permit and License Department (“Department”). The application shall
contain the full name of the applicant; the applicant’s residential address;
business address to be licensed; telephone numbers; the name of the business
for which the license is sought; a copy of a valid state license for the
premises sought to be licensed; the name, address and telephone number of the
person authorized to receive notices issued pursuant to this subchapter; and
any additional information the village deems necessary. Upon receipt of a
completed application, the Department shall cause an investigation be made of
the character of the applicant. If the Department determines that an
application is incomplete, the application shall be returned to the applicant
with notice of the information necessary to make the application complete. No
such license shall be issued to any person who is not a person of good
character.
      (1)   If the applicant is a corporation or limited liability corporation,
the corporate name, title, address and telephone number of the principal place
of business; the date and state of incorporation; the names of the corporate
officers and the name, address and telephone number of the person authorized to
receive notices issued pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership, the name, address and telephone
number of the principal place of business; the names of all partners; and the
name, address and telephone number of a person authorized to receive notices
issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   Action. The Department may either approve or deny the license, or may
delay the action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
application is approved, the Department shall issue the license to the
applicant. If the application is denied, notice of the denial shall be given to
the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s right to appeal the decision
to the Village President.
   (D)   Fees. No license shall be issued under this subchapter until the
appropriate license fee is paid in full. The annual license fee for such
business shall be established by ordinance as set forth in the license fee
schedule of §
110.018(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Term. All licenses issued under this subchapter shall be valid for one
calendar year from the date of issuance.
   (F)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this subchapter may
be revoked or suspended as provided in §
114.999 of this chapter. Any retailer whose license is revoked for violating
any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be prohibited from obtaining a
tobacco retailer’s license for one year.
   (G)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this subchapter shall be valid
only for the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person
to whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location
or person shall be valid without the prior written approval of the Department.
   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this subchapter shall
be handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days, before the
expiration of the current license.
   (J)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking shall not be permitted and no person shall
smoke indoors at any location with a tobacco retailer license. Smoking for the
purposes of sampling tobacco, tobacco-related products, plant products or
electronic delivery devices shall be prohibited.
   (K)   Issuance is a privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this subchapter shall be considered a privilege and not an
absolute right of the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an
automatic renewal of the license.
   (L)   Minimum clerk age. An individual must be at least 18 years of age to
sell tobacco products, tobacco-related devices or electronic delivery devices
on behalf of a person licensed under this subchapter.
   (M)   Product placement. A license holder must have all tobacco products or
tobacco-related devices located behind the service counter.
   (N)   License for tobacco product vending machine.
      (1)   Every tobacco product vending machine must be licensed by the
License and Permit Department. The Department shall issue an adhesive self-
voiding license emblem to be placed on each licensed tobacco product vending
machine. The license emblem shall be coded to identify the retailer who has
control over the vending machine. The license emblem shall bear the words:
“Village of Dolton Tobacco Product Vending Machine”. The license shall
designate the period of time for which the license is valid; shall contain a
reproduction of the village seal, along with the name of the Village President;
shall contain a space for a brief description of the name, style and type of
vending machine to be licensed; the location of the vending machine; and such
other language as may be prescribed by the Village President. A replacement
license emblem shall not be issued unless the application for such replacement
is accompanied by a village police report of the incident in which the emblem
to be replaced was lost, stolen or mutilated, or unless the remnants of the
emblem being replaced are submitted with the replacement application.
      (2)   The annual license fee for a vending machine shall be established
by ordinance as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(A) of this chapter. Each additional vending machine operated by a
licensee shall be subject to an additional fee as set forth in the fee schedule
of §
110.018(A) of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 16-005, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.037 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance of a license under this subchapter
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law or ordinance, or other regulation
relating to tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco- related devices;
      (3)   The applicant had a tobacco license revoked within the preceding 12
months of the date of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information; and
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law or
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
   (B)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this subchapter.
(Ord. 16-005, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 114.038 ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Permit and License Department shall be responsible for the
enforcement and administration of this subchapter.
   (B)   Such duties include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Conducting random, unannounced inspections at locations where
tobacco products are sold, including tobacco vending machines;
      (2)   Promulgating rules and regulations consistent with this subchapter
to provide the enforcement and administration of the provisions of this
subchapter. The rules and regulations shall establish procedures for
administrative action against violators, including the adjudication of the
violations pursuant to the village’s administrative adjudication hearing
process; and
      (3)   Any rules and regulations promulgated under this subchapter shall
be filed in the Department’s office and shall be made available upon request
and payment of all reasonable fees as determined by the Department to cover the
cost of providing such copies.
(Ord. 16-005, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 114.039 PROHIBITED SALES AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to sell,
distribute or offer to sell or distribute any tobacco, tobacco product,
tobacco-related device or electronic delivery device:
      (1)   To any person under the age of 18 years. Every retailer shall
request and examine the photographic identification of any person purchasing
tobacco products to verify that the purchaser is over 18 years of age. No such
verification shall be required for any person, who appears, without reasonable
doubt, to be 35 years and older;
      (2)   By means of any type of vending machine, unless such vending
machines are located in factories, businesses, offices, private clubs and other
places not open to the public, or in taverns. Tobacco products may only be sold
or distributed by a vending machine located in a tavern subject to the
following:
         (a)   The vending machine must be placed at least 25 feet from any
entrance or exit to the premises; and
         (b)   The vending machine must be directly visible to the owner or
lessee of the premises, or his or her employees or agents during the tavern’s
hours of operation.
      (3)   By means of self-service methods whereby a customer does not need
to make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device and
whereby there is no physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-
related device or electronic delivery device between the licensee, or the
licensee’s employee, and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-
related devices and electronic delivery devices shall either be stored behind a
counter or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other
storage unit not left open and accessible to the general public;
      (4)   By means of single or loose (“loosies”) cigarettes. No retailer
shall break or otherwise open any cigarette or smokeless tobacco package to
sell or distribute individual cigarettes or a number of unpacked cigarettes or
any quantity of cigarette tobacco or smokeless tobacco that is not in the
manufacturer’s original sealed and stamped packaging;
      (5)   By any other means, to any other person, in any manner or form
prohibited by federal, state or local law or ordinance, or other regulation;
      (6)   By giving away, bartering, exchanging, distributing or in any way
dispensing free of charge, or at nominal cost, any tobacco product samples and/
or coupons redeemable for any tobacco product, on any public street, alley,
sidewalk or in any public park, grounds or playground, or in areas open to the
public in any publicly owned or operated building, or at place located within
500 feet of any building or other location used primarily as a school, child
care facility or for the education or recreation of children under 18 years of
age; and
      (7)   Any cigarette or tobacco product which is not properly licensed by
the state.
   (B)   No retailer shall sell or distribute tobacco products at any place
located within 500 feet of any building or other location used primarily as a
school, child care facility, or for the education or recreation of children
under the age of 18 years of age. This prohibition shall not apply to those
businesses engaged in the retail sale of tobacco products at a location that
would otherwise be prohibited under this subchapter prior to 11-1-2010 and any
new owner that acquired the place of business subsequent to 11-1-2010, at the
same location and providing the same service.
(Ord. 16-005, passed 3-7-2016; Ord. 19-002, passed 4-1-2019) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.040 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this subchapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-
related devices and electronic delivery devices on the licensed premises and
the sale of an item by an employee shall be considered a sale by the license
holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the village
from also subjecting the employee to whatever penalties are appropriate under
this subchapter, state or federal law or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 16-005, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 114.041 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation for any person to sell or
otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-related device or
electronic delivery device to any minor.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation for any minor to have in
his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-related device or
electronic delivery device.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation for any minor to smoke, chew,
sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-related device or
electronic delivery device.
   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation for any minor to purchase
or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco, tobacco product,
tobacco-related device or electronic delivery device, and it shall be a
violation for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain these items on behalf
of a minor. It shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt
to coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco,
tobacco product, tobacco-related device or electronic delivery device.
   (E)   Use false identification. It shall be a violation for any minor to
attempt to disguise his or her true age by use of a false form of
identification, whether the identification is that of another person or one on
which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to represent an
age older than the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 16-005, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.042 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for
conducting compliance checks and operations of the sale of age restricted
tobacco products.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COMPLIANCE CHECK MANAGER. A village police officer who is responsible for
supervising enforcement compliance check operations for tobacco and any other
age-restricted products.
      COMPLIANCE CHECK OPERATIONS. A controlled purchase operation conducted
with the use of covert minors to ensure that age-restricted tobacco products
are being sold in accordance with this section. A COMPLIANCE CHECK OPERATION
may also be referred to as an INSPECTION.
      COMPLIANCE OFFICER. A village police officer assigned to conduct
compliance check operations and supervise the covert minor(s) engaging in
controlled buys of age-restricted tobacco products.
      COVERT MINOR. A volunteer who is under 18 years of age and who, while
under village police supervision, assists the Police Department in controlled
purchase operations.
      IDENTIFICATION. A government issued driver’s license, state
identification card, active duty military identification card or passport
lawfully issued to the covert minor for the purposes of establishing identity.
      LICENSEE. The person who is licensed by the state and the village to sell
alcoholic beverages and/or tobacco products.
      OBSERVERS. Adult volunteers who assist supervising officers in conducting
compliance check operations.
      PRODUCT. Any age-restricted tobacco product purchased by a covert minor
in the course of conducting a compliance check operation.
      SELLER. A person who is responsible for and involved in the sale or
refusal to sell age-restricted products.
   (C)   Compliance check procedures.
      (1)   Scheduling. Tobacco compliance operations will be scheduled based
on the results from civilian-based tobacco compliance check operations
conducted through the state’s Liquor Control Commission. The state’s Liquor
Control Commission will provide the compliance check manager a list of
locations within the village that failed their most recent state tobacco
compliance check. Based on the number of businesses that failed, the compliance
check manager will determine the number of operations needed to complete
follow-up inspections.
         (a)   The schedule for alcohol and tobacco compliance check operations
will be subject to the approval of the village’s Police Chief and shall be
reported to the police liaison trustee.
         (b)   Upon receipt of a complaint of underage access to a tobacco
product, the compliance check manager will schedule a compliance check
operation within 30 days of the receipt of the complaint. The business alleged
to be in violation may be inspected as part of a regularly scheduled compliance
check operation.
      (2)   Officer assignments.
         (a)   For pre-scheduled compliance check operations, the compliance
check manager will notify all eligible officers of the opportunity to conduct
compliance check operations. To ensure fairness in assignments, officers will
be given a period of time to sign up for the operations on a first come, first
serve basis, with a limitation on how many operations an individual officer may
sign up for. Once the sign-up period has lapsed, the compliance check manager
will re-open the schedule for a second round of sign-ups to include officers
who previously signed up, again with limitations on the number an individual
officer may sign up for. If dates are available following a second round, the
schedule will be opened up for general sign up with no limitations.
         (b)   Officers who fail to report to scheduled assignments on two
consecutive dates may be required to forfeit upcoming dates or be denied the
opportunity to sign up during the next scheduling period.
      (3)   Covert minors. The compliance check manager is responsible for
recruiting and scheduling covert minors. Covert minors will be selected using
the following criteria.
         (a)   Covert minors assigned to tobacco compliance checks must be at
least 16 years of age and no more than 17 years of age.
         (b)   Minors who are 16 years of age or who reside with a parent year
round and have not reached the age of 19, must have a permission slip, provided
by the compliance check manager, signed by a parent, authorizing the
involvement in compliance check operations. The parent permission slip will
outline the role the minor will take in compliance check operations.
         (c)   No covert minors will be allowed to participate in compliance
check operations if they are within two months of their birthday that would
allow them to legally purchase age-restricted products.
      (4)   Appearance of minors.
         (a)   Minors should be “youthful” in appearance. No minor will use
excessive makeup to enhance his or her appearance. Males will not be allowed to
have facial hair (i.e., beards or mustaches).
         (b)   Minors must dress appropriately in order to participate in a
compliance check operation. Minors will not wear clothing that would aid in the
determination of age (i.e., letter jackets and t-shirts that provide class
information).
         (c)   Minors, at the direction of the compliance check manager, may be
required to participate in an age verification study provided by the compliance
check manager.
            1.   To complete the age verification study, a minor will be taken
to an area with high levels of pedestrian traffic. Officers will conduct the
study by requesting a variety of pedestrians to evaluate the minor and estimate
the minor’s age. Officers will request this input from 12 individuals who would
be eligible to sit on a jury.
            2.   Upon completion of the age verification study, the officers
conducting the study, will submit the documentation to the compliance check
manager for inclusion in the minor’s file.
      (5)   Background review.
         (a)   Minors should be of good character. A background check shall be
conducted by the compliance check manager. The background check will include a
criminal history check and an ARMS check.
         (b)   Minors will be disqualified from participation if they have any
felony or misdemeanor convictions or have been charged with a DUI or similar
violation from another state. Minors with a single violation of minors in
possession of alcohol/tobacco-related products may be allowed to participate in
the program with authorization from the Village Attorney and approval of the
compliance check manager.
      (6)   Selected covert minors.
         (a)   Minors who are selected as a covet minor will complete a covert
minor information sheet provided by the compliance check manager. The
information sheet will contain basic information on the covert minor, contact
information, medical information and emergency information.
         (b)   The compliance check manager will review the statement of
understanding (included with the covert minor information sheet), which
outlines the rules for the covert minor and the goals and directions of the
compliance check operation with the covert minor. The covert minor must also
agree to participate in any additional follow-up investigations, case review
and preparation, trials involving the seller and administrative review hearings
against a licensee.
         (c)   The compliance check manager will maintain a file on each covert
minor. The file will contain the covert minor information sheet, a copy of the
minor’s driver’s license, a completed background investigation and a photograph
of the minor. If the minor is working as part of a fine reduction arrangement,
the file will also include the original document of the minor’s violation.
      (7)   Evaluation of a covert minor. A covet minor will not be evaluated
on his or her ability to purchase alcohol from a licensee. Rather, the minor
will be evaluated based on the minor being able to conduct a fair test. Minors
will be removed from the program if they are found to be alerting businesses of
upcoming compliance checks or tipping employees of establishments while
conducting the compliance check. Officers observing or learning of such
behavior will immediately notify the compliance check manager.
      (8)   Covert minor compensation.
         (a)   Minors working through an agreement for compensation will be
compensated at a rate of $10 per hour, figured to the nearest half hour. This
compensation will be issued through a supervising officer assigned to the
operation. Compensation under this division (C)(8) does not imply employment
with the village, but is a stipend given in consideration for the voluntary
activity of the minor.
         (b)   Covert minors working through arrangements for fine reductions
will be scheduled for one compliance operation per $50 in fines issued to the
minor. No partial consideration will be made. When a covert minor agrees to
participate in this program, the minor will be assigned to the number of
details necessary to cover the entire fine amount. If the minor fails to
complete the program as agreed to, he or she will be responsible for the amount
of fines not covered by his or her participation in the program.
         (c)   Covet minors working as part of an agreement for fine reduction
will be given credit for working the compliance check operation if the Police
Department cancels the operation on short notice.
      (9)   Covert minor scheduling. The compliance check manager is
responsible for the scheduling of covert minors. Two to three minors will be
scheduled for each detail. If possible, a minor will not be scheduled for more
than two compliance check details in one month. The minor is required to notify
the compliance check manager if he or she is unable to complete an assignment
as scheduled.
   (D)   Operational funds.
      (1)   The compliance check manager will maintain and manage funds to
conduct compliance check operations. Funds will be requested from the Village
Administrator in $500 increments. The compliance check manager will keep these
funds secured in his or her office. A fund log will be maintained that shows
the distribution of these funds and the return of funds not used during the
compliance check operation.
      (2)   On each occasion that compliance check funds are to be used, the
compliance check manager will determine the amount of funds necessary to
complete the operation. The compliance check manager will log such funds out of
the account and issue them to the supervising officer(s). A covert fund
tracking sheet provided by the compliance check manager will be completed,
verified and signed by a supervising officer assigned to the operation.
      (3)   Upon the conclusion of the compliance check operation, a
supervising officer assigned to the operation will conduct an accounting of all
expenditures and will reconcile the funds on the covert detail sheet. This
reconciliation shall be reported to the Village Administrator in a timely
manner. If discrepancies are found, the supervising officer will provide a memo
outlining what the discrepancies are and what actions are needed to reconcile
the account. Said funds shall be audited annually by the Village Auditor.
      (4)   If minors used in the compliance check operation are working
through an agreement for compensation, said agreement is subject to approval of
the Village Administrator. A supervising officer assigned to the operation will
provide the minor the appropriate funds as per the agreement. A minor receiving
compensation must sign the covert fund tracking sheet for the funds received.
      (5)   A supervising officer assigned to the operation will return the
unused funds to the compliance check manager. The compliance check manager will
review the expenditures and ensure that the accounting is true and correct. If
discrepancies are found, the compliance check manager will note the discrepancy
and request a memo from the supervising officer regarding the discrepancy. A
copy of the discrepancy report shall be timely filed with the Village
Administrator. The funds will then be placed back into the covert funds account
and the return of unused funds will be documented on the covert fund log by the
compliance check manager.
      (6)   Covert funds will be subject to periodic audits by the Police
Department and the Village Administrator and shall be audited annually by the
Village Auditor. The compliance check manager will ensure that the covert funds
log is kept current and reconciled on a monthly basis. Said monthly
reconciliations shall be reported to the Police Chief and the Village
Administrator.
   (E)   Operation procedures.
      (1)   Upon receipt from the state’s Liquor Control Commission of the
number of businesses located in the village that failed a Commission compliance
check operation, the compliance check manager will determine the number of
compliance check operations to be conducted. The compliance check manager will
then assign the appropriate number of officers and covert minors needed, and
will set the date on which the inspections are to be completed.
      (2)   The compliance check manager will, upon determining which locations
are to be inspected, calculate the amount of funds necessary to complete the
operation. The funds will then be issued to the supervising officer(s) as
provided in division (C) above. The supervising officer(s) will be provided a
kit, to include the compliance check detail sheet and the appropriate paperwork
to handle the detail. The compliance check manager will also provide any
special instructions to the supervising officer(s).
      (3)   The supervising officer(s) will conduct a pre-operation briefing.
During the briefing, the supervising officer(s) will ensure that the covert
minors appearance follows the standards set forth in division (B)(4) above. If
their appearance does not meet those standards, the supervising officer(s) will
take any necessary action to have the minors come into compliance with the
standards. If a minor is unable to meet the standards, the minor shall not be
allowed to participate in the operation. The supervising officer(s) will notify
the compliance check manager of the issues related to the appearance of a
minor.
         (a)   The supervising officer(s) will review the list of businesses to
be inspected with the covert minors. During this review, the supervising
officer(s) will determine which minors will be involved in checking specific
businesses. If the minor knows the individuals employed by the business to be
checked, the minor will not be used at that location.
         (b)   The supervising officer(s) shall review with the covert minor(s)
the procedures for conducting compliance operations, which products are to be
purchased, and what things should be said by the minor(s). The supervising
officer(s) shall also discuss entrapment and what behaviors and statements the
minor(s) should avoid to prevent entrapment from being an issue for prosecution
of a violation.
   (F)   Compliance check operations.
      (1)   The supervising officer(s) will use a Police Department vehicle in
conducting the compliance check operation. Only with advanced approval from the
Police Chief will an officer’s personally owned vehicle be used during a
compliance check operation. All participants in the operation will conduct the
operation out of the same vehicle. Covert minors will not be allowed to use
their own vehicles.
      (2)   The supervising officer(s) will determine the order in which the
compliance checks should be conducted. When conducting the inspections, the
officers should make every effort to avoid detection by the businesses being
inspected.
      (3)   When conducting the actual compliance check operation, the
supervising officer(s) shall be in a position to see and, if possible, to hear,
the transaction. When practical, this observation should take place within the
establishment.
      (4)   At a minimum, the supervising officer(s) should scan the business
to ensure that the minor is not entering into a dangerous situation. If the
supervising officer(s) are going to enter the establishment, they should do so
before the minor enters, to ensure the safety of the minor.
      (5)   The supervising officer(s) may send any combination of minors into
the establishment to aid in the natural appearance of the minors for the
business they are entering. Supervising officer(s) should avoid, as is
reasonably possible, giving the appearance that they are with the covert
minors. When using more than one minor, only one will be directed to make the
purchase of the product.
      (6)   The supervising officer(s) will issue covert funds needed to
complete a transaction to the covert minor(s) prior to their entering a
specific location. Upon conclusion of the compliance check, the supervising
officer(s) will recover from the minor(s) the funds not used in that check. The
supervising officer(s) will then record the expenses related to that compliance
check on the covert detail sheet
      (7)   During the compliance check operation, a covert minor is expected
to be a good witness. The minor will be required to identify the seller by
name, number or description to the supervising officer(s) and provide a
statement regarding the conversation conducted between the seller and the
minor.
   (G)   Attempts to purchase products.
      (1)   For purchases of products that are sold for off-premises use, the
covert minor will enter the establishment and locate the product to be
purchased. The covert minor will take the product immediately to the counter
for purchase. The quantity of the product purchased will be limited to single
serve containers, six-packs or a single item.
      (2)   If the seller asks for identification, the covert minor will
indicate that he or she does not have identification on his or her person. If
the minor is asked to provide an age or birth date, he or she will provide
information that will put his or her age over the purchase age for that
product.
      (3)   During the actual attempt to purchase, the covert minor will avoid
excessive conversation and any actions that would coerce, entice or compel the
seller to agree to the purchase.
      (4)   (a)   After the attempt to purchase occurs, the covert minor will
immediately leave the store with the product (if a purchase is made) and return
to a previously agreed upon meeting location. The minor(s) will meet with the
supervising officer(s), turn the product over to the officer(s), and review the
facts of the case.
         (b)   A review of the check will be completed and the seller
identified.
   (H)   Supervising officer’s responsibilities.
      (1)   The primary responsibility of a supervising officer is the
protection of the covert minor(s). A supervising officer will make every effort
necessary to ensure that a covert minor is protected. At no time will a
supervising officer make a covert minor available to the seller, business
manager or other business staff.
      (2)   While conducting a compliance check, a supervising officer will be
observant of other violations occurring in the establishment. As violations are
noted, the supervising officer(s) will document the violations and notify the
compliance check manager. When violations of a more serious nature (i.e.,
employee consumption of alcohol or drugs on duty) are found, the supervising
officer(s) will immediately notify the compliance check manager of such
observations.
   (I)   Completed inspection. Upon completion of an individual compliance
check, the supervising officer(s) will meet with the covert minor(s) and review
the check to determine if any violations have occurred.
   (J)   Compliance check wrap-up.
      (1)   At the conclusion of the compliance check operation, the
supervising officer(s) will return the covert minor(s) to the Police Department
or other requested location. Any minors who are to receive compensation for
services will be paid at that time.
      (2)   The supervising officer(s) will ensure that any issued funds not
used in the individual inspection are returned to the supervising officer(s)
and accounted for. The accounting section of the compliance check detail sheet
must be completed and a supervising officer shall sign for the return of covert
funds.
      (3)   The compliance check detail sheet shall be completed in full.
Supervising officer(s) must ensure that the outcome of each individual
inspection is noted, along with which covert minor was assigned to the specific
inspection. Pass and fail letter will be attached to the compliance check
detail sheet.
      (4)   (a)   Any reports of compliance check failures shall be completed
immediately by the supervising officer(s) following the actual operation unless
delayed reporting is authorized by the compliance check manager.
         (b)   Completed reports will be attached to the compliance check
detail sheet and all paperwork and the issued kit will be returned to the
compliance check manager.
      (5)   Upon receipt of the compliance check paperwork and kit, the
compliance check manager will reconcile the funds issued and return them to the
operations fund.
   (K)   Violations.
      (1)   Violations found.
         (a)   In cases where violations are found, the supervising officer(s)
will notify TEP and request a report number. Preliminary paperwork will be
completed prior to re-entering the establishment.
         (b)   The supervising officer(s) will wait a reasonable period of time
before re-entering the establishment, in order to provide some distance between
the purchase and notification of the violation(s). The recommended waiting
period is a minimum of five minutes. In no case should the supervising office
(s) continue to another compliance check location without first completing the
notification and issuance of a notice to appear.
         (c)   Upon re-entering the establishment, the supervising officer(s)
will request to speak to the owner, manager or employee in charge.
Additionally, efforts should be made to locate the employee(s) involved in the
violation(s). The establishment should be given a reasonable period of time to
adjust business operations to allow for the enforcement action to occur.
         (d)   The supervising officer(s) shall provide notification to the
offending employee(s). During said notification, the supervising officer(s)
should note any spontaneous statements made by the offending employee(s) and/or
the business representative and include those statements in the police report.
Supervising officer(s) should also make note of the conditions of the
establishment with respect to signage and other warnings or procedures specific
to the control of the sale of the products.
         (e)   In the event that a demand is made by the offending employee(s)
or business representative to see the covert minor(s), the supervising officer
(s) shall advise the requestor(s) that it is not possible and that such request
should be made to the compliance check manager. Under no circumstances shall
the requestor be allowed to see covert minor(s).
         (f)   Unless circumstances dictate otherwise, the offender(s) will be
issued a notice to appear for the ordinance violation(s) as provided in §
114.999 of this chapter. The supervising officer(s) will issue the notice of
violation (i.e., “failure letter”) to the owner, business manager or
representative. They will also encourage the owner, business manager or
representative to contact the compliance check manager for a case review and
suggestions for improvement. A copy of the failure letter will be included in
the report.
         (g)   Violation reports will include a detailed narrative of the
violation. The report will also include the name and date of birth of the
covert minor(s). Addresses and phone numbers for the covert minor(s) shall not
be included in the report. The address of the Police Department and the
compliance check manager’s business telephone number are to be used as the
address and phone number for the covert minor(s).
      (2)   No violations found.
         (a)   When an establishment successfully passes an inspection, a
letter of congratulations (i.e., “pass letter”) will be prepared. The pass
letter will identify the seller by name or number.
         (b)   Upon completion of the compliance check operation, and after the
covert minor(s) have been released, the supervising officer(s) will return to
those establishments that successfully passed inspection and issue the letter
to the owner, manager or representative. The pass letter will note who the
letter was served to.
(Ord. 16-005, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
JUNK DEALERS AND JUNKYARDS
§ 114.055 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to purchase, sell or deal in junk, rags, old
rope, paper, bagging, old iron, brass, copper, tin, lead, empty bottles or
similar articles or to operate or carry on the business of keeper of a junk
shop, store or place for the purchase, sale or dealing in any of said articles
without first having obtained a license therefor.
   (B)   Such articles shall include the purchase and sale of junked
automobiles or parts thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.056 LICENSE APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Application for such license shall set forth the name and address of
the applicant, the description of his or her business, the place where such
junk shop, store or place is to be operated and the area of said junkyard.
   (B)   Such application shall be subject to approval by the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-2)
§ 114.057 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee for such business and each vehicle used in the
conduct of said business shall be established by ordinance as set forth in the
license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-3) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 114.058 PREMISES REQUIREMENT; AREA LIMITATION.
   No junkyard shall be maintained in a greater area than 20,000 square feet
and the Board may, at its discretion, in the best interest of the public, limit
and restrict the number of licenses to be issued therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-4) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.059 LICENSE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Conduct of business. In every case where a license is issued under the
provisions of this chapter, the licensee shall maintain and operate his or her
business and, in particular, his or her junkyard, in event a junkyard is
operated, in such a manner as to not be a nuisance, and such licensee shall at
all times keep his or her junkyard clear of unnecessary rubbish and clear away
rubbish as may be directed by the Police Department from time to time, and if
in event such licensee shall not operate said junkyard in conformity with
regulations of the Police Department, the village shall in all cases reserve
the right to declare such junkyard a nuisance and abate same as such; and all
licenses issued to junk dealers shall particularly specify therein that same is
taken subject to provisions herein contained to which the licensee consents.
   (B)   Vehicles. Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his or
her business shall bear thereon in legible characters the name and address of
the owner and proprietor thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-5) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.060 STOLEN GOODS.
   (A)   Each keeper of a junk shop or junkyard who shall receive or be in
possession of any goods, articles or things of value which may have been stolen
shall, upon demand, produce such articles or things to any member of the Police
Department for examination.
   (B)   No keeper of a junk shop or a junkyard shall purchase, take or receive
from any person any catalytic converter that is not attached to a motor vehicle
or any portion of a dismantled catalytic converter that is reasonably
identifiable as such.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-6) (Ord. 15-027, passed 7-6-2015) Penalty, see §
114.999
SECONDHAND STORES
§ 114.075 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or conduct a secondhand store without having first
obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-1) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.076 LICENSE APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION.
   Applications for such licenses shall state the location intended to be
occupied. Upon receipt of such application, the Chief of Police shall cause to
have investigated the character of the applicant. No license shall be issued to
anyone who is not a person of good character nor to any person who shall have
been convicted of burglary, robbery or of receiving stolen goods.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-2)
§ 114.077 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee for a secondhand store shall be based on the number
of employees as provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-3)
§ 114.078 RECORDS KEPT.
   Every person operating a secondhand store shall keep a record of every
article purchased by or sold to him or her stating the name and address of the
person from whom such purchase was made, an accurate description of the
article, the time of such purchase and the price paid therefor and this record
shall be open to inspection by any police officer at any time.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-4) Penalty, see §
114.999
LEASING AND/OR MANAGEMENT AGENTS
§ 114.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. An individual or firm authorized to act on behalf of another.
   LEASING AGENT. The person, business, association, corporation or
organization contracting on behalf of the owner for the use or occupancy of
real property under terms of a lease, regardless of whether verbal or written.
   MANAGEMENT AGENT. The person, business or organization handling,
supervising, controlling or directing the use or occupancy or business affairs
of real property on behalf of the owner.
   REAL ESTATE. An identified parcel or tract of land, including improvements
if any, a piece of land, including the air above it and the ground below it and
any buildings or structures on it.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT. A licensed salesperson working for a real estate broker.
REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON means a person licensed to
arrange the buying and selling of real estate for a fee.
   REAL PROPERTY. The interest, benefits, and rights inherent in the ownership
of real estate.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 114.091 REGISTRATION AND BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of soliciting for the purchase,
sale or lease of any real estate or property within the village without first
having been registered with the Village Collector or such other person so
designated by the President and Board of Trustees, and it shall be unlawful to
engage in business in the village as a leasing or management agent for rental
property, either directly or through an authorized designee, without first
having obtained a business license therefor from the village, paying the
applicable business license fee as hereafter required.
   (B)   No person shall engage in the business of actively participating in
the real estate sales or leasing process (e.g., informing potential purchasers
or lessees of current listings), meeting with property owners or property
managers for the purpose of acquiring a listing on the property or facilitating
the lease of real estate or property, conducting viewings of listed property,
procurement of an interested party to a real estate transaction or lease and/or
arranging for preliminary options, without first having been registered with
the Village Collector or such other person so designated by the President and
the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to actively participate or engage in the leasing
process in the village or to conduct business in the village as a leasing and/
or rental management agent broker or real estate salesperson, either directly
or through an authorized designee, without first having obtained a business
license therefor from the village, paying the applicable business license fee
as hereafter required.
   (D)   Where an employee, agent, licensed individual or an unlicensed
individual, association or corporation renders its services directly to a
licensed salesperson leasing and/or rental management agent, to the extent
allowable by law, said person shall not be required to obtain a business
license.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.092 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter shall apply to all leasing and/or rental management
agents conducting business within the village whether their place of business
is located within or without the corporate limits of the village.
      (2)   The annual business license fee for registering as a real estate
broker or leasing or rental management agent shall be established by ordinance
as set forth in the business license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   All provisions of §
110.001 of this code of ordinances are applicable and are incorporated herein
as if fully set forth.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 114.093 APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE.
   Application for any business licenses required by this subchapter shall be
made to the Village Collector or such other person so designated by the
President and Board of Trustees, in writing, under oath, stating:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant in the case of an individual; if
a partnership, the persons entitled to share in the profits thereof; and, if a
firm, corporation or limited liability corporation, the corporate name,
registered office and agent, and the date of incorporation or license to do
business under an assumed name;
   (B)   A copy of the required license, if any, issued by the state; and
   (C)   A statement that applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state or the United States or any ordinance of the village in the conduct of
business.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 114.094 RESTRICTION ON ISSUANCE OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   No business license shall be issued under this subchapter to:
   (A)   A person, partnership, firm, corporation or limited liability
corporation, who at the time of application for renewal of any business license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such business license upon an
original application;
   (B)   A corporation or limited liability corporation, unless it is
incorporated in the state, or unless it is a foreign corporation which is
qualified under the state’s Business Corporation Act, being 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et
seq. as now or hereafter amended, to transact business in the state, including
the act commonly known as “blockbusting”;
   (C)   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a business license; and
   (D)   A person, partnership, firm, corporation or limited liability
corporation who provides false or incorrect information or misrepresentation of
any material facts in the business license application.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 114.095 TERM OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   All business licenses to be issued under this subchapter shall be for a
period of one year and shall expire on April 30 of each year.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 114.096 PAYMENT AND DISPOSITION OF BUSINESS LICENSE FEES.
   All business license fees required by this subchapter shall be paid to the
Village Collector or to such other person as may be designated. Upon such
payment, the business license fees shall be promptly turned over to the Village
Treasurer for deposit in the Corporate Fund. New business licenses issued on or
after November 1 shall require payment of only one-half the annual business
license fee. There shall be no refund of any fee paid for any unused portion of
the license period.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 114.097 RENEWAL OF BUSINESS LICENSES.
   Any licensee failing to apply for the renewal of said business license in a
timely manner shall be subject to the late filing penalties provided for in §
114.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 114.098 TRANSFER OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   A business license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to
exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as in this subchapter
provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be transferable, voluntarily
or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 114.099 REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   The Village Collector, or other person so designated by the President
and the Board of Trustees, shall have the authority to suspend for a period of
up to one year for cause, or revoke, for cause, any business license issued
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   FOR CAUSE shall mean any violation of any provision hereof, or for any
misrepresentation of any material facts set forth in the application for the
business license, or for the violation of any state law or village ordinance,
pertaining to the purchase, sale or lease of any real estate or property.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 114.100 RECORD OF BUSINESS LICENSES AND REVOCATIONS.
   The Village Collector, or other person so designated by the President and
the Board of Trustees, shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all
business licenses issued or revocations hereunder.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 114.101 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Collector, or such other person so designated by the
President and the Board of Trustees, shall promulgate due process rules and
regulations for any charges brought pursuant to §
114.096 of this chapter.
   (B)   Said rules and regulations shall be approved by the President and the
Board of Trustees prior to becoming effective.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000)
BARBER AND BEAUTY SHOPS
§ 114.115 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms BARBER SHOP and BEAUTY SHOP, as used in this subchapter, shall be
construed to mean a place where the hair is cut, cleansed, treated or dressed,
or the face is shaved or the beard trimmed, for hire, and where also, manicure,
chiropody or massage treatments are sometimes furnished for hire, and shall
also be deemed to include hair dressing establishments which are commonly
patronized by women.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-1)
§ 114.116 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a barber shop or
beauty shop in the village without first having obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-2) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.117 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   The application for such license shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk and shall state thereon the name and address of the owner of the shop,
the street and number location of the shop and the number of chairs to be used
in the establishment.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-3)
§ 114.118 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for such business shall be established by ordinance
as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-4)
§ 114.119 SANITARY CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Premises. Premises used for barber shop or beauty shop shall be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition and it shall be unlawful to permit waste
materials of any kind to accumulate therein.
   (B)   Employees. It shall be unlawful to employ in such establishment any
persons afflicted with a venereal or contagious disease.
   (C)   Equipment and supplies. It shall be unlawful to use in any
establishment used as a barber shop or beauty shop any implements or tools upon
any person after the same have been used upon a person afflicted with any skin
disease without sterilizing the tool or implement afterwards and it shall be
unlawful to use any towel on any customer after the same has been used without
having such towel sterilized and cleaned prior to such second usage.
   (D)   Customers. No person infected with any disease of the face or head
shall have the same barbered or treated in any manner in a barber shop or hair
dressing establishment in the village, nor shall any person with hand disease
be manicured therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-5) Penalty, see §
114.999
FLORISTS
§ 114.130 DEFINITION.
   The term FLORIST shall mean any building, room, stand, enclosure, premises,
place, establishment or part of an establishment in the village operated,
maintained or conducted for the sale, or offering or keeping for sale at
wholesale or retail, any flowers, plants, trees or shrubs of all varieties and
description.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-1)
§ 114.131 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall carry on the business of a florist without first having
obtained a license therefor from the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-2) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.132 LICENSE APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Application for license to conduct a business of florist shall state
the name and address of the applicant, a description of the place where the
business is to conducted and the names and addresses of the persons designated
to manage such place of business.
   (B)   The annual license fee for such business shall be established by
ordinance as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances and this fee shall be in addition to
other license fees that the applicant may pay.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-3) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 114.133 HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. Every establishment wherein the business of a florist is
conducted shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. No decayed,
decaying, unwholesome, contaminated or diseased flowers, plants or other things
shall be allowed to remain in or about such establishment, and such
establishment shall be kept clear of rubbish and inflammable matter.
   (B)   Compliance with state law. Every establishment where the business of a
florist is conducted shall comply with all state laws governing the sale,
possessing, growing or disposition of noxious, diseased or infected plants,
trees or shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-4) Penalty, see §
114.999
SELF-SERVICE LAUNDRIES
§ 114.145 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or conduct a self-service laundry without first
having obtained a license therefor; provided that, establishments licensed as
dry cleaning establishments need not obtain a laundry license in addition to
the dry cleaning license.
(Prior Code, § 3-15A-1) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.146 LICENSE APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Application for such license shall be made in writing to the Clerk and
shall state thereon the location intended to be occupied and the number of
machines.
   (B)   The annual license fee for such business shall be established by
ordinance as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-15A-2) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 114.147 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Premises. Premises used for self-service laundries must be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition. No refuse of any kind shall be permitted to
accumulate on such premises and the premises must be kept free from rats, mice
and vermin.
   (B)   Employees. It shall be unlawful to employ any person afflicted with a
venereal or any contagious disease in a self-service laundry.
(Prior Code, § 3-15A-3) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.148 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or some other official
designated by the President to inspect or cause to be inspected every
establishment licensed under this subchapter at least once every six months.
Any violations under the terms of this subchapter which are discovered shall be
reported to the corporate authorities.
(Prior Code, § 3-15A-4)
RETAIL DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 114.160 DEFINITION.
   A DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT is any premises where the process of removing
dirt, grease, paint, spots, stains or any other form of foreign matter from
wearing apparel or household furnishings by any means other than washing with
soap or detergent and water is carried on.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-1-1)
§ 114.161 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct, operate or maintain any retail dry cleaning
establishment without first securing a license therefor, as herein required.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-1-2) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.162 LICENSE APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION.
   Applications for such license shall be made to the Clerk and shall be
referred to the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be
investigated the premises intended to be used, and shall report the result of
the investigation to the President before the issuance of a license. No such
license shall be issued to any person not complying with all the provisions of
this subchapter, with the provisions of the Building Code and all statutes
relating to flammable liquids.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-1-3)
§ 114.163 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for such business shall be established by ordinance
as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-1-4) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 114.164 FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS.
   See §
152.01 of this code of ordinances for Fire Prevention Codes and standards
adopted by the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-1-5)
§ 114.165 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Premises. The premises must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
and must be kept free from rats, mice and vermin.
   (B)   Employees. No person afflicted with a contagious or venereal disease
shall be employed in any dry cleaning establishment.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-1-6) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.166 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or some other
official designated by the President to inspect or cause to be inspected every
such licensed establishment at least once every six months. Any violations of
this subchapter or any other provision of this code of ordinances relating to
dry cleaners, premises and/or flammable liquids shall be reported to the
President.
   (B)   Fire hazards. The Chief of the Fire Department shall have the right to
enter any building or premises occupied by any dry cleaning establishment in
order to examine the same and to determine whether or not said building and
premises, or any material, chemical or compound kept therein, or used thereon,
or any article or fabric dry cleaned, dyed, spotted or finished, as received,
used, kept, maintained or stored on said premises or building conforms to the
fire regulations of the village or constitutes a fire hazard.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-1-7)
COIN-OPERATED DRY CLEANING MACHINE PLANTS
§ 114.180 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a coin-operated dry cleaning
machine plant in the village who does not possess a license from the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-2-1) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.181 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee for a coin-operated dry cleaning machine plant shall apply
for each calendar year or any portion thereof. This fee shall be as provided in
§
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-2-2)
§ 114.182 INSPECTIONS.
   Operation of such a plant shall not begin prior to inspection and approval
by the Building Commissioner and Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-2-3)
§ 114.183 REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Building requirements.
      (1)   Such structures shall be single-story with concrete floors in good
condition.
      (2)   Machines shall not be installed in buildings used in whole or in
part as dwellings.
      (3)   Maintenance areas shall be separate from customer service areas.
   (B)   Sanitation requirements.
      (1)   Every room or place of a plant shall at all times be kept in good
repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   Separate toilet facilities for men and women shall be provided.
   (C)   Plant and machine operation requirements.
      (1)   An attendant shall be on duty and present at all hours the plant is
open for business.
      (2)   Customers shall not be permitted in maintenance service areas. The
doors of any such areas shall be kept locked to the public.
      (3)   Complete step-by-step operating instructions shall be posted near
the machines in the customer service area. The instructions shall also include
the statements, as follows: notify attendant if any odor of solvent remains in
garment or material, and garment or materials bearing the odor of solvent are
dangerous if enclosed in an automobile or other enclosed places.
      (4)   Warning signs shall be posted requiring the evacuation of the plant
in the presence of noticeable vapor odor or in the presence of such symptoms as
irritation of the eyes, nose or throat, lacrimation or dizziness. The attendant
shall enforce such evacuation.
      (5)   The attendant shall take all reasonable precautions to see that
materials that cannot be properly cleaned shall not be placed in machines.
      (6)   All machines shall be inspected by plant personnel daily and any
machine found to be operating improperly or found to be unsafe shall not be
placed in service and shall be clearly marked “Out of Order - Do Not Use”.
      (7)   All pipes, connections and transfer pumps carrying the cleaning
solvent shall be maintained tight and free from leaks.
      (8)   Servicing of machines shall be done only during the operation of
exhaust ventilation.
      (9)   The dry cleaning solvent shall be stored in tightly closed
containers and shall be transferred from the containers by means of a closed
system. All solvent storage containers, external from machine tanks, must be
adequately and properly labeled and stored in a maintenance or storage area of
the plant.
      (10)   Filter residue and other residues containing dry cleaning solvent
shall be stored in tightly covered metal containers outside of the plant in an
area not accessible to the public and shall be collected by a scavenger
according to the terms of this code of ordinances.
      (11)   Spotting of materials shall be done with no solvent other than
water.
   (D)   Safety and testing equipment requirements.
      (1)   Respiratory protective equipment, approved for use in the plant by
the Fire Chief, shall be provided for attendants and maintenance personnel and
shall be kept in good repair and available for immediate use.
      (2)   Utility fire extinguishers shall be provided. The type, capacity,
number and location of extinguishers shall be designated by the Fire Chief.
Such extinguishers shall be maintained properly.
      (3)   Safety goggles, rubber gloves and rubber safety aprons shall be
provided for service personnel.
      (4)   (a)   A device for testing concentration of solvent vapors in the
plant atmosphere shall be provided by the licensee.
         (b)   Such device shall be a Kitagawa Precision Gas Detector, Unico
Model No. 400 or equivalent, and maintained with no fewer than ten gas detector
tubes of the appropriate type.
         (c)   Such equipment shall be kept at the plant and made available for
on-site inspection services by the Building Commissioner and Fire Chief.
      (5)   A telephone of the non-pay type shall be available at the plant for
emergency use. Village fire and police numbers shall be posted conspicuously at
the phone.
   (E)   Compliance with other provisions. The building shall in all other
respects comply with the building, light and ventilation requirements of this
code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-2-4) Penalty, see §
114.999
LUMBERYARDS
§ 114.195 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall establish, conduct or maintain a lumberyard without
having obtained a license as required in this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The annual license fee for such business shall be established by
ordinance as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   This fee shall include the sale of items normally associated with a
lumberyard such as paint, builders’ hardware and tools.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-1-1) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.196 LOCATION.
   No lumberyard shall be established or licensed within the fire limits, but
this subchapter shall not be construed to require the removal of any lumberyard
which is already located and established.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-1-2) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.197 FIRE AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fire apparatus. It shall be the duty of every person owning or
operating a lumberyard to have the same equipped with sufficient fire apparatus
to handle any small fires which may start and to prevent their spreading.
   (B)   Piling lumber. It shall be unlawful to pile any lumber in a lumberyard
in such a way that the lumber is hanging over or in danger of falling onto any
adjoining property, street, alley or public way.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-1-3) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.198 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to inspect or cause to be inspected
every lumberyard establishment in the village to assure compliance with this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-1-4)
COAL AND FUEL OIL DEALERS
§ 114.210 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to do business as a coal dealer maintaining a coal yard
or a fuel oil dealer without having first obtained a license therefor as is
herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-2-1) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.211 LICENSE APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Application for such licenses shall designate thereon the name and
address of the licensee, the location of his or her business and the number of
vehicles intended to be used by him or her, and such application shall be filed
pursuant to §
110.014 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The annual license fee for such business shall be established by
ordinance as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-2-2) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
WAREHOUSES
§ 114.225 DEFINITION.
   The term WAREHOUSE is hereby defined to mean any building, enclosure,
structure or other establishment, not otherwise classified by this code of
ordinances, used for the storing of goods, wares or commodities for hire or
compensation; or for the storage, assembling or forwarding of goods, wares or
commodities in connection with or as a part of any establishment or business
which is not specifically defined and licensed by this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-1)
§ 114.226 LICENSE REQUIRED; INSPECTION FEE.
   Every person conducting or operating a warehouse shall secure a license from
the Village Clerk and pay an inspection fee for such warehouse. The inspection
fee for such business shall be established by ordinance as set forth in the
license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-2) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 114.227 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Fire safety. Every warehouse operated or maintained in the village
shall be inspected under and by the authority of the Fire Prevention Bureau at
least once a year. Such inspection is for the purpose of ascertaining whether
all laws of the state and provisions of this code of ordinances relating to
fire prevention and public safety in case of fire are being complied with and
for the purpose of determining if such establishments are so dangerous as to
constitute a nuisance or be a menace to the safety of the public or to
adjoining property.
   (B)   Sanitary conditions. The President shall have the power to inspect or
cause to be inspected such warehouses for the purpose of determining sanitary
condition of all places where foods are stored or handled, and if proper and
adequate toilet facilities are provided for employees and the public where
necessary and whether all laws of the state and of this code of ordinances
relating to health and sanitation which apply to such establishments are
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-3)
CABLE TELEVISION
§ 114.240 ADOPTING RULES AND REGULATIONS OF FCC.
   (A)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees of the village do hereby adopt the
rules and regulations set forth by the Federal Communications Commission
pursuant to § 623(b) of the Cable Televisions Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992 (47 U.S.C. § 543(b)) for the review of the basic
service tier of cable television services and equipment necessary for the
provision of such service tier.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICE TIER OF CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES. A separately available
service tier to which subscription is required for access to any other tier of
service, including as a minimum, but not limited to, all signals of domestic
television broadcast stations provided to any subscriber, (except a signal
secondarily transmitted by satellite carrier beyond the local service area of
such station, regardless of how such signal is ultimately received by the cable
system) any public, education and governmental programming required by the
franchise to be carried on the basic tier, and any additional video programming
signals or service added to the basic tier by the cable operator.
      EQUIPMENT NECESSARY TO PROVIDE SAID BASIC TIER OF SERVICE. Those items of
associated equipment necessary for the reception of basic cable service by a
subscriber, including, but not limited to, converter boxes, remote control
units, additional outlets and installations.
(Ord. 94-237, passed 1-25-1994)
§ 114.241 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   The village shall provide the grantee of the cable television
franchise, the public and interested parties with an opportunity to be heard at
a public hearing before the Mayor and the Board of Trustees, upon 14 days’
written notice to the grantee of the cable television franchise of the time and
place of the public hearing; provided further that, said notice shall indicate
that the purpose of the public hearing is to receive the views of the grantee
and interested parties on issues pertaining to regulation of the basic service
tier of cable television services and equipment necessary to provide said basic
tier of service; and, provided further that, notice of said public hearing
shall be published in a local newspaper of general circulation at least ten
days before the date of this hearing and provided further, that an agenda for
said public hearing shall be posed in a public place at the Village Hall at
least seven days prior to said public hearing.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of this subchapter and the certification of the
village by the Federal Communications Commission, the village shall immediately
notify the cable operator by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the
village intends to regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier
and associated equipment as authorized by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992, being Pub. Law No. 102-385 as now or
hereafter amended. Upon receipt of said notice by the village, the cable
operator shall, within 30 days, file with the village its current rates for the
basic service tier and associated equipment along with any additional
documentation justifying the reasonableness of its rates.
(Ord. 94-237, passed 1-25-1994)
§ 114.242 REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   The village shall establish that the period for review of rates of the
basic service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of services shall be 30 days from the submission by the
grantee of the cable television franchise of Federal Communications Commission
Form 393. If the Mayor and the Board of Trustees of the village take no action
within 30 days from the date the cable operator files its basic cable rate with
the town, the proposed rates will continue in effect.
   (B)   In the event that additional time for review of the Federal
Communications Commission Form 393 submitted by grantee is necessary, the Mayor
and the Board of Trustees of the village or their designee shall issue a brief
written order prior to the end of the 30-day review period, with a copy of said
order to be sent by certified United States mail to the grantee, providing for
an additional 90-day period for review of rates of the basic service tier and
the equipment necessary to provide said basic tier of service. During the
extended review period and before taking action on the proposed rate, the Mayor
and the Board of Trustees of the village shall hold at least one public hearing
in which interested citizens may express their views and record objections.
(Ord. 94-237, passed 1-25-1994)
§ 114.243 REVIEW OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The village shall establish that the period for review of the basic
service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of services shall be 90 days from the submission by the
grantee of information and forms prescribed by the Federal Communications
Commission for a showing of cost-of-service, as defined by the Federal
Communications Commission.
   (B)   In the event that the additional time for review of the cost-of-
service showing submitted by the grantee is necessary, the Mayor and the Board
of Trustees or their designee shall issue a brief written order prior to the
end of the 90-day review period with a copy of said order to be sent by
certified U.S. mail to the grantee, providing for an additional 150-day period
for review of rates of the basic service tier and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service. During the extended review period and
before taking action on the proposed rate, the Mayor and the Board of Trustees
of the village shall hold at least one public hearing in which interested
citizens may express their views and record objections.
(Ord. 94-237, passed 1-25-1994)
§ 114.244 FORMAL RESOLUTION.
   (A)   (1)   Upon completion of its review of the proposed rates for the
basic service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service, the Mayor and the Board of Trustees of the
village shall adopt its decision by formal resolution. Said resolution shall
indicate the reasons for the decision.
      (2)   Upon passage of the resolution, the Mayor and the Board of Trustees
shall publish the resolution in pamphlet form.
   (B)   In the event that the cable operator’s proposed rates exceed the
reasonable rate standard as established by the FCC in its rules and regulations
attached to the ordinance codified herein, the Mayor and the Mayor and the
Board of Trustees may order the rates reduced by rollbacks or refunds to
subscribers, in the byline FCC.
(Ord. 94-237, passed 1-25-1994)
§ 114.245 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Mayor or appropriate designee, is authorized to execute on behalf of the
village and file with the FCC, such certification forms or other instruments as
are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC rate regulations in order to
enable the village to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Ord. 94-237, passed 1-25-1994)
§ 114.246 REFUND OF RATES.
   The Mayor and the Board of Trustees of the village may order the cable
operator to refund to subscribers a portion of previously paid rates under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be in
excess of the permitted basic cable service tier charge or above the actual
cost of equipment; or
   (B)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order issued
by the town.
(Ord. 94-237, passed 1-25-1994)
§ 114.247 VIOLATION.
   Failure by the cable operator to comply with the terms and conditions
established by this subchapter, including the codified ordinance’s attachment,
shall constitute a violation of the Cable Television Franchise Ordinance
originally enacted by the Board of Trustees on 8-18-1981 and amended and
extended on 2-2-1993. Penalties for such violation are subject to the
provisions of the municipal code of the village.
(Ord. 94-237, passed 1-25-1994)
UNATTENDED COLLECTION BOXES
§ 114.260 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. A entity, association or organization who places, maintains or
operates unattended collection box(es) to solicit donations of salvageable
personal property.
   PERMITTEE. The operator who is issued a permit (with written authorization
of the property owner) for placement of an unattended collection box.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Person, entity, association, business or organization who
owns the real property where the unattended collection box(es) are or are
proposed to be located.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Includes residential zoning districts.
   UNATTENDED COLLECTION BOX. Any unattended container, receptacle, box or
similar device that is located on any property within the village and used for
soliciting and collecting clothing or other salvageable personal property.
(Ord. 16-023, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.261 PERMITS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise exempt, it shall be unlawful and a public nuisance to
place, operate, maintain or allow unattended collection boxes on real property
without first obtaining a permit pursuant to this subchapter and the unattended
collection box is placed, operated and maintained in association with all
provisions in this subchapter.
   (B)   The permit application shall be made on a form provided by the village
and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, email, website (if applicable) and telephone
number of the applicant;
      (2)   The address of the subject real property; a drawing/site plan
sufficient to indicate the proposed location of the unattended collection box
on the subject real property (must be accessory to a principal structure
located on the lot);
      (3)   The size of the proposed unattended collection box (maximum four
feet by five feet by six and one-half feet);
      (4)   The distance of the unattended collection box to any existing
unattended collection boxes;
      (5)   The proposed material of the collection box (metal or resin only);
      (6)   The text of the disclosure to be attached to the collection box, as
required by this subchapter; and
      (7)   Proof of non-profit status.
   (C)   Each application shall include a non-refundable fee of $250. This fee
shall be in addition to any fee or tax imposed by the village pursuant to any
other provision of this code.
   (D)   Permits will only be issued to non-profit organizations.
   (E)   Applications shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall issue a permit within 30 days of receiving the
application or the application will be deemed denied.
   (G)   The Village Clerk shall not issue a permit unless:
      (1)   The applicant has submitted a complete and accurate application
accompanied by the applicable fee;
      (2)   The site has been pre-approved by the village;
      (3)   The proposed location and placement of the unattended collection
box on the subject real property is in compliance with all applicable laws and
will not impede pedestrian, bicycle, site distances onto adjacent streets or
vehicular traffic;
      (4)   The proposed unattended collection box is located a minimum of 400
feet from the nearest property line of any lot which serves as the location of
an existing unattended collection box; and
      (5)   The applicant organization is a non-profit.
   (H)   Permits issued hereunder shall be valid for one unattended collection
box. Each unattended collection box shall have its own individual permit with a
maximum of two collection boxes per lot.
   (I)   The permit expires one year from the date of issuance.
   (J)   No operator to whom a permit has been issued shall transfer, assign or
convey such permit to another person, organization or operator.
   (K)   A permit holder may surrender the permit by notifying the Village
Clerk in writing of the intent to surrender. The permit shall be void upon the
Village Clerk’s receipt of a written notice of intent to surrender.
   (L)   The permit holder may renew a valid current permit by submitting to
the Village Clerk a timely renewal application and pay a renewal fee in the
amount of $250.
   (M)   There shall be no more than four permits issued at any one time.
(Ord. 16-023, passed 11-7-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.262 REQUIREMENTS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A permittee shall operate and maintain or cause to be operated and
maintained all unattended collection boxes located in the city as follows.
      (1)   Unattended collection boxes shall be in good condition with no
structural damage, holes or visible rust and shall be free of any graffiti.
      (2)   Unattended collection boxes shall be locked or otherwise secured.
      (3)   Unattended collection boxes should have the following information
in two-inch type visible on the front of each box:
         (a)   Name of the permittee;
         (b)   Address of the permittee;
         (c)   Phone number of the permittee; and
         (d)   Email of the permittee.
      (4)   Unattended collection boxes shall be serviced and emptied at least
once per month or within five business days of a request by the village.
   (B)   A permittee shall maintain the area surrounding the unattended
collection box and keep it free of any junk, garbage, trash, debris or other
refuse material.
   (C)   The permittee shall be individually and severally responsible for
abating and removing all junk, garbage, trash, debris and other refuse material
from the area surrounding the unattended collection box within 24 hours of
written or verbal notice from the village.
   (D)   The permittee shall be individually and severally responsible to the
extent provided by law for all the village’s costs to abate and remove any
nuisance including junk, garbage, trash, debris and other refuse material from
the area surrounding the unattended collection boxes.
   (E)   No collection box may be permitted on any unimproved land or parcel of
land, nor where the principal use of the land has been closed, abandoned or
unoccupied for more than 30 days.
   (F)   An unattended collection box shall not be placed closer than ten feet
from:
      (1)   A public or private sidewalk;
      (2)   A public right-of-way;
      (3)   A driveway; or
      (4)   A side or rear property line of adjacent property used for
residential purposes.
   (G)   A unattended collection box shall not:
      (1)   Encroach upon or obstruct a designated fire lane or building exit;
      (2)   Interfere with an access drive, off-street parking lot maneuvering
lane and/or required off-street parking space to an extent which would cause
safety hazards and/or unnecessary inconvenience to the vehicular or pedestrian
traffic; and/or
      (3)   Encroach upon an access drive, off-street parking lot maneuvering
lane and/or required off-street parking space.
   (H)   Unattended collection boxes shall be placed on a level, hard (asphalt
or concrete) paved, dust-free surface.
(Ord. 16-023, passed 11-7-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.263 PERMIT REVOCATION; REMOVAL; LIABILITY.
   The village shall have the right to revoke any permit issued hereunder. Upon
revocation, a permittee shall be prohibited from applying for a permit under
this subchapter for one year.
(Ord. 16-023, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Inspections; entry and arrest powers. A police officer or any
other official designated by the village to make inspections shall have the
right to enter any premises showing evidence of a flea market for the purpose
of enforcement or inspection and may close the flea market and/or arrest any
individual who violates the provisions of §§
114.001 through
114.005 of this chapter.
      (2)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating
the provisions of §§
114.001 through
114.005 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $750.
Every article sold and every day a sale is conducted in violation of §§
114.001 through
114.005 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to:
         (a)   Engaging in the business of the care of lawns, shrubs, trees and
any other occupation pertaining to landscape maintenance without first securing
a landscape and lawn care professional’s license from the village;
         (b)   Failing to either remove yard waste from the premises upon the
conclusion of each work day, or failing to leave the yard waste in brown paper
yard waste bags in the rear of the premises;
         (c)   Leaving debris or yard waste from landscaping or lawn care
services on the parkway;
         (d)   Violation of other village ordinances by the licensee
concerning:
            1.   Unauthorized dumping of debris;
            2.   Use of back-pack leaf blowers between May 15 and October 1;
and/or
            3.   Any other ordinance pertaining to landscape maintenance.
         (e)   Make inaccurate, false or misleading statements in any
application for any such license;
         (f)   Make substantial misrepresentation or false promise of a
character likely to influence or induce another in connection with the business
of landscaping; and/or
         (g)   Pursue a continued course of misrepresentations or making false
promises through advertising, salesperson, agents or otherwise in connection
with the business of landscaping.
      (2)   Any person found guilty of violating any terms of §§
114.020 through
144.022 of this chapter shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not less than $100, nor more than
$1,000, for each offense. Every day that a violation exists constitutes a
separate offense.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, operates
or otherwise controls the use of any premises licensed under §§
114.035 through
114.042 of this chapter to fail to comply with any of its provisions.
      (2)   (a)   Other than violations of §
114.039(A)(4) or (A)(7) of this chapter, any licensee found to have violated §§
114.035 through
114.042 of this chapter, or whose employee shall have violated this §§
114.035 through
114.042 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty and punishable by:
            1.   First violation: a fine of $5,000; and
            2.   Second violation, within 12 months after first conviction: a
fine of $5,000 and a 60-day license suspension.
         (b)   Any licensee found to have violated §
114.039(A)(4) or (A)(7) of this chapter shall be deemed guilty and punishable
by:
            1.   First violation: a fine of $5,000 and a 30-day license
suspension;
            2.   Second violation, within 12 months: a fine of $5,000 and be
subject to revocation of the license; and
            3.   Third violation, within five years of first conviction: a fine
of $25,000 and license revocation.
         (c)   Any licensee who has received an order of suspension or order of
revocation shall comply with the order immediately unless a timely appeal is
filed. The licensee may obtain a post-suspension or post-revocation hearing
before the Mayor or a hearing officer appointed by the Mayor. The request for a
hearing must be made in writing within five calendar days of the effective date
of the suspension or revocation. A due process hearing will be scheduled within
21 days of the date of request for hearing. The decision of the Mayor will be
final.
      (3)   Other individuals, other than minors, found to have violated §§
114.035 through
114.042 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $750.
      (4)   Minors found in unlawful possession of, or who unlawfully purchased
or attempted to purchase, tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices or
electronic delivery devices, shall be subject to a fine not less than $100, nor
more than $750, or may be subject to tobacco-related education classes,
diversion programs, community services or both.
      (5)   Any violation of any provision of §§
114.035 through
114.042 of this chapter, unless otherwise provided for, may be enforced
pursuant to §§
10.30 through
10.43 of this code of ordinances, and as amended from time to time, which
provides for the administrative adjudication of certain ordinance violations.
The Village Administrator may also direct the Village Prosecutor or the Village
Attorney to proceed before any court having competent jurisdiction to enforce
the provisions of §§
114.035 through
114.042 of this chapter, including injunctive relief.
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of §
114.060 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500.
   (F)   (1)   A penalty of $20 per day, to a maximum of 30 days for each day a
leasing and/or rental management agent is late in relation to the date upon
which it should have been filed is set for violation of §§
114.090 through
114.101 of this chapter.
      (2)   During such period of delinquency, commencing immediately after the
date upon which the renewal application was required to be filed, and until all
such fees and penalties are paid in conjunction with the filing of the renewal
application and its issuance, the individual, partnership, corporation or
limited liability corporation shall cease all operations relative to the
purchase, sale or lease of real estate or property.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
114.180 through
114.183 of this chapter shall be fined according to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances, and every day that the violation shall
continue, after notice of same, shall be held to constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-15B-2-5)
   (H)   (1)   Any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of the
provisions of §§
114.260 through 114.264 of this chapter shall be deemed a new and separate
offense for each day that the condition continues to exist.
      (2)   The village shall assess a fine of $500 per unattended collection
box for each violation of §§
114.260 through 114.264 of this chapter.
      (3)   Nothing in §§
114.260 through 114.264 of this chapter shall prevent the village from pursuing
any other remedy provided by law in conjunction with or in lieu of prosecuting
persons under this division (H) for violation of §§
114.260 through 114.264 of this chapter.
(Ord. 00-136, passed 1-3-2000; Ord. 03-219, passed 4-21-2003; Ord. 15-027,
passed 7-6-2015; Ord. 15-032, passed 8-3-2015; Ord. 16-005, passed 3-7-2016;
Ord. 16-023, passed 11-7-2016; Ord. 19-002, passed 4-1-2019)
CHAPTER 115: PERSONAL SALES
Section
Estate Sales
   
115.001   Definitions
   
115.002   Permit required
   
115.003   Contents of application
   
115.004   Permit fee
   
115.005   Investigation of applicant
   
115.006   Number of permits restricted; exceptions
   
115.007   Permit to be posted
   
115.008   Conduct of sale
   
115.009   Revocation and refusal of permit
   
115.010   Permit exemptions
Garage Sales
   
115.025   Definitions
   
115.026   Permit required; contents
   
115.027   Application for permit
   
115.028   Permit fees
   
115.029   Investigation of applicant
   
115.030   Number of permits restricted; exceptions
   
115.031   Permit to be posted
   
115.032   Conduct of sale
   
115.033   Revocation and refusal of permit
   
115.034   Exemptions from provisions
 
   
115.999   Penalty
ESTATE SALES
§ 115.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ESTATE SALE. A type of garage sale, yard sale or auction to dispose of the
majority of the materials or personal property owned by a deceased person.
ESTATE SALES are usually conducted, for a percentage of the take, by
specialists and may last several days.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property, which is owned, utilized and maintained by an
individual or members of his or her residence and acquired, in the normal
course of living in or maintaining a residence. It does not include
merchandise, which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment.
   REAL PROPERTY. Land and anything permanently affixed to it, including
buildings.
(Ord. 07-397, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 115.002 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No estate sale shall be conducted unless and until the individuals
desiring to conduct such sale shall obtain a permit therefore from the village.
Members of more than one residence may not join in obtaining a permit for an
estate sale. No real estate shall be sold at an estate sale.
   (B)   The permit shall set forth and restrict the time and location of such
estate sale.
(Ord. 07-397, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.003 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to issuance of any estate sale permit, the individuals conducting such
sale shall file a written statement with the village at least five days in
advance of the proposed sale (mailed applications must be postmarked at least
seven days in advance of the sale) setting forth the following information:
   (A)   Full name, address, daytime telephone number and email address of
applicant;
   (B)   The location at which the proposed estate sale is to be held;
   (C)   The date or dates upon which the sale shall be held;
   (D)   The date or dates of any other estate sales within the current
calendar year; and
   (E)   An affirmative statement that the property to be sold was owned by the
estate and was neither acquired, nor consigned for the purpose of resale.
(Ord. 07-397, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 115.004 PERMIT FEE.
   There shall be an administrative processing fee of $25 for the issuance of
such permit.
(Ord. 07-397, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 115.005 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   Before issuing a permit, the village’s Revenue Department may conduct an
investigation as may reasonably be necessary to determine if there is
compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-397, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 115.006 NUMBER OF PERMITS RESTRICTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No more than three such permits may be issued to one residence and/or
family household during any calendar year.
   (B)   If an estate sale is not held on the dates for which the permit is
issued or is terminated during the first day of the sale because of inclement
weather conditions and an affidavit by the permit holder to this effect is
submitted, the village may issue another permit to the applicant for an estate
sale to be conducted at the same location within 30 days from the date when the
first sale was to be held. No additional permit fee is required.
   (C)   A fourth estate sale shall be permitted in a calendar year if
satisfactory proof of a bona fide change in ownership of the real property is
first presented to the village designated representative.
(Ord. 07-397, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 115.007 PERMIT TO BE POSTED.
   Any permit in possession of the holder or holders of an estate sale shall be
posted on the premises in a conspicuous place so as to be seen by the public
and the village inspector or village police.
(Ord. 07-397, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 115.008 CONDUCT OF SALE.
   (A)   Generally. The individual to whom such permit is issued and the owner
or tenant of the premises on which such sale or activity is conducted shall be
jointly and severally responsible for the maintenance of good order and decorum
on the premises during all hours of such sale or activity. No such individual
shall permit any loud or boisterous conduct on said premises nor permit
vehicles to impede the passage of traffic on any roads or streets in the area
of such premises. All such individuals shall obey the reasonable orders of any
member of the Police or Fire Departments of the village in order to maintain
the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Property permitted to be sold. It shall be unlawful for any individual
to sell or offer for sale, under authority granted by this subchapter, property
other than personal property.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Estate sales shall be limited in time to no more
than the daylight hours of three consecutive days or two consecutive weekends
(Monday through Saturday).
   (D)   Display of sale property.
      (1)   Personal property offered for sale may be displayed within the
residence, in a garage, carport and/or in a rear yard, but only in such areas.
      (2)   No personal property offered for sale at an estate sale shall be
displayed in the front or side yard areas of any such premises or in any public
right-of-way.
      (3)   However, a vehicle offered for sale may be displayed on a
permanently constructed driveway within such front or side yards.
   (E)   Signs and advertisements.
      (1)   Signs permitted. Only the following specified signs may be
displayed in relation to the a pending estate sale:
         (a)   Two signs of not more than four square feet shall be permitted
to be displayed on the property of the residence where the estate sale is being
conducted; or
         (b)   Two or not more than two square feet are permitted; provided
that, the premises upon which the estate sale is conducted is not on a major
thoroughfare and written permission to erect said signs is received from the
property owners upon whose property such signs are to be placed.
      (2)   Time limitations. No sign or other form of advertisement shall be
exhibited for more than two days prior to the day such sale to commence.
      (3)   Removal of signs. Signs must be removed each day at the close of
the estate sale activities or by the end of daylight, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   Parking regulations.
      (1)   All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in compliance with all
applicable laws and ordinances.
      (2)   Further, the village’s Police Department may enforce such temporary
controls to alleviate any special hazards and/or congestion created by any
estate sale.
(Ord. 07-397, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.009 REVOCATION AND REFUSAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be revoked or any
application for issuance of a permit may be refused by the village if the
application submitted by the applicant or permit holder contains any false,
fraudulent or misleading statement.
   (B)   If any individual is convicted of an offense under this subchapter,
the Village Clerk is instructed to cancel any existing estate sale permit held
by the individual convicted and not to issue such individual another estate
sale permit for a period of two years from the time of conviction.
(Ord. 07-397, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 115.010 PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to or affect the
following:
   (A)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   (C)   Any sale conducted by any merchant or mercantile or other business
establishment from or at a place of business wherein such sale would be
permitted by the zoning regulations of the village or under the protection of
the non-conforming use section thereof or any other sale conducted by a
manufacturer, dealer or vendor and which sale would be conducted from properly
zoned premises and not otherwise prohibited in other ordinances; and/or
   (D)   Any governmental institution or organization when the proceeds from
the sale are used directly for the institution’s purposes.
(Ord. 07-397, passed 5-7-2007)
GARAGE SALES
§ 115.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. All general sales open to the public conducted from or on a
residential premises in any residential zone, as defined by the Zoning
Ordinance, for the purpose of disposing of personal property including, but not
limited to, all sales entitled “garage”, “lawn”, “yard”, “attic”, “porch”,
“room”, “back yard”, “patio”, “flea market” or “rummage” sale. This definition
shall not include a situation where no more than five specific items are held
out for sale and all advertisement of such sale specifically names those items
to be sold.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which is owned, utilized and maintained by an
individual or members of his or her residence and acquired in the normal course
of living in or maintaining a residence. It does not include merchandise which
was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-1)
§ 115.026 PERMIT REQUIRED; CONTENTS.
   (A)   No garage sale shall be conducted unless and until the individuals
desiring to conduct such sale shall obtain a permit therefor from the Village
Clerk. Members of more than one residence may join in obtaining a permit for a
garage sale to be conducted at the residence of one of them.
   (B)   The permit shall set forth and restrict the time and location of such
garage sale.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-2) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.027 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Prior to issuance of any garage sale permit, the individuals conducting such
sale shall file a written statement with the Village Clerk at least five days
in advance of the proposed sale (mailed applications must be postmarked at
least seven days in advance of the sale) setting forth the following
information:
   (A)   Full name and address of applicant;
   (B)   The location at which the proposed garage sale is to be held;
   (C)   The date or dates upon which the sale shall be held;
   (D)   The date or dates of any other garage sales within the current
calendar year; and
   (E)   An affirmative statement that the property to be sold was owned by the
applicant as his or her own personal property and was neither acquired nor
consigned for the purposes of resale.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-3)
§ 115.028 PERMIT FEES.
   There shall be an administrative processing fee of $3 for the issuance of
such permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-4)
§ 115.029 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   Before issuing a permit, the Village Clerk may conduct an investigation as
may reasonably be necessary to determine if there is compliance with this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-5)
§ 115.030 NUMBER OF PERMITS RESTRICTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No more than three such permits may be issued to one residence and/or
family household during any calendar year. If members of more than one
residence join in requesting a permit, then such permit shall be considered as
having been issued for each and all of such residences.
   (B)   If a garage sale is not held on the dates for which the permit is
issued or is terminated during the first day of the sale because of inclement
weather conditions and an affidavit by the permit holder to this effect is
submitted, the Village Clerk may issue another permit to the applicant for a
garage sale to be conducted at the same location within 30 days from the date
when the first sale was to be held. No additional permit fee is required.
   (C)   A fourth garage sale shall be permitted in a calendar year if
satisfactory proof of a bona fide change in ownership of the real property is
first presented to the Village Clerk or his or her duly authorized
representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-6)
§ 115.031 PERMIT TO BE POSTED.
   Any permit in possession of the holder or holders of a garage sale shall be
posted on the premises in a conspicuous place so as to be seen by the public
and the Village Inspector or village police.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-7)
§ 115.032 CONDUCT OF SALE.
   (A)   Generally. The individual to whom such permit is issued and the owner
or tenant of the premises on which such sale or activity is conducted shall be
jointly and severally responsible for the maintenance of good order and decorum
on the premises during all hours of such sale or activity. No such individual
shall permit any loud or boisterous conduct on said premises nor permit
vehicles to impede the passage of traffic on any roads or streets in the area
of such premises. All such individuals shall obey the reasonable orders of any
member of the Police or Fire Departments of the village in order to maintain
the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Property permitted to be sold. It shall be unlawful for any individual
to sell or offer for sale, under authority granted by this subchapter, property
other than personal property.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Garage sales shall be limited in time to no more
than the daylight hours of three consecutive days or two consecutive weekends
(Saturday and Sunday).
   (D)   Display of sale property. Personal property offered for sale may be
displayed within the residence, in a garage, carport and/or in a rear yard, but
only in such areas. No personal property offered for sate at a garage sale
shall be displayed in the front or side yard areas of any such premises or in
any public right-of-way. However, a vehicle offered for sale may be displayed
on a permanently constructed driveway within such front or side yards.
   (E)   Signs and advertisements.
      (1)   Signs permitted. Only the following specified signs may be
displayed in relation to a pending garage sale:
         (a)   Two signs of not more than four square feet shall be permitted
to be displayed on the property of the residence where the garage sale is being
conducted; and
         (b)   Two signs of not more than two square feet each are permitted;
provided that, the premises upon which the garage sale is conducted is not on a
major thoroughfare and written permission to erect said signs is received from
the property owners upon whose property such signs are to be placed.
      (2)   Time limitations. No sign or other form of advertisement shall be
exhibited for more than two days prior to the day such sale is to commence.
      (3)   Removal of signs. Signs must be removed each day at the close of
the garage sale activities or by the end of daylight, whichever first occurs.
   (F)   Parking regulations. All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in
compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances. Further, the Police
Department may enforce such temporary controls to alleviate any special hazards
and/or congestion created by any garage sale.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-8) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.033 REVOCATION AND REFUSAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be revoked or any
application for issuance of a permit may be refused by the Village Clerk if the
application submitted by the applicant or permit holder contains any false,
fraudulent or misleading statement.
   (B)   If any individual is convicted of an offense under this subchapter,
the Village Clerk is instructed to cancel any existing garage sale permit held
by the individual convicted and not to issue such individual another garage
sale permit for a period of two years from the time of conviction.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-9)
§ 115.034 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to or affect the
following:
   (A)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   (C)   Any sale conducted by any merchant or mercantile or other business
establishment from or at a place of business wherein such sale would be
permitted by the zoning regulations of the village or under the protection of
the non-conforming use section thereof or any other sale conducted by a
manufacturer, dealer or vendor and which sale would be conducted from properly
zoned premises and not otherwise prohibited in other ordinances; or
   (D)   Any bona fide charitable, eleemosynary, educational, cultural or
governmental institution or organization when the proceeds from the sale are
used directly for the institution’s or organization’s charitable purposes and
the goods or articles are not sold on a consignment basis.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-10)
§ 115.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Inspections; entry and arrest powers. A police officer, or any
other official designated by any village ordinance to make inspections under
the licensing or regulating ordinance or to enforce the same, shall have the
right of entry to any premises showing evidence of a estate sale for the
purpose of enforcement or inspection and may close the premises from such a
sale or arrest any individual who violates the provisions of §§
115.001 through
115.010 of this chapter.
      (2)   Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating the terms of §§
115.001 through
115.010 of this chapter shall be fined as set forth in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Every article sold and every day a sale is
conducted in violation of §§
115.001 through
115.010 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Inspections; entry and arrest powers. A police officer, or any
other official designated by any village ordinance to make inspections under
the licensing or regulating ordinance or to enforce the same, shall have the
right of entry to any premises showing evidence of a garage sale for the
purpose of enforcement or inspection and may close the premises from such a
sale or arrest any individual who violates the provisions of §§
115.025 through
115.034 of this chapter.
      (2)   Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating the terms of §§
115.025 through
115.034 of this chapter shall be fined as set forth in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Every article sold and every day a sale is
conducted in violation of §§
115.025 through
115.034 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-11)
(Ord. passed 9-20-1977; Ord. 07-397, passed 5-7-2007)
CHAPTER 116: VEHICLE-RELATED BUSINESSES
Section
Towing Businesses
   
116.001   Definitions
   
116.002   License required
   
116.003   License application
   
116.004   License fee
   
116.005   License renewal
   
116.006   License transfer
   
116.007   Town orders
   
116.008   Books and records; examination
   
116.009   Enforcement authority
   
116.010   Applicability of business license, permit provisions
Motor Vehicle Storage
   
116.025   Definitions
   
116.026   License required
   
116.027   License application
   
116.028   License fee
   
116.029   License renewal
   
116.030   License transfer
   
116.031   Restrictions on issuance or renewal of license
   
116.032   Enforcement authority
   
116.033   Applicability of business license, permit provisions
Gasoline Service Stations and Storage Plants
   
116.045   Definition
   
116.046   License required; restrictions
   
116.047   License fee
   
116.048   Construction requirements
   
116.049   Application of provisions to storage plants
Public Garages
   
116.060   Definition
   
116.061   License required; application
   
116.062   License fees
   
116.063   Building and premises requirements
   
116.064   Fire safety regulations
   
116.065   Prohibited act; changing vehicle identification
   
116.066   Inspections
Parking Lots
   
116.080   Definition
   
116.081   License required; fee
   
116.082   Prohibited acts
   
116.083   Entering and exiting from lots
Taxicabs; Vehicles for Hire
   
116.095   Definition
   
116.096   License required; issuance
   
116.097   Qualifications for license
   
116.098   License fee; term
   
116.099   Number of licenses issued
   
116.100   Conduct of business
   
116.101   Operation of taxicabs
   
116.102   Revocation of license; appeals
   
116.103   Foreign cab companies
Vehicle/Rail Transfer Facilities
   
116.115   Definitions
   
116.116   License required
   
116.117   License application
   
116.118   Premises requirements; inspections
Expressmen, Draymen and Movers
   
116.130   License required
   
116.131   License application; fee
   
116.132   License conditions
 
   
116.999   Penalty
TOWING BUSINESSES
§ 116.001 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases as defined in
the 625 ILCS 5/18c-1104, as amended, shall have the meanings and construction
in this subchapter as is given in said 625 ILCS 5/18c-1104, as amended.
(Ord. 99-126, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.002 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons, partnership, corporation or other
entity to operate or cause to be operated within the village a motor vehicles
towing service (hereinafter “towing service”) without having first obtained a
license therefor as required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 99-126, passed 10-18-1999) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.003 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Applications for such license shall be submitted to the Village Clerk or to
such other person as may be designated.
(Ord. 99-126, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.004 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for businesses providing towing of motor vehicles
services shall be $170. Said annual license fee shall be paid to the Village
Clerk or such other person as may be designated. Upon such payment, the
business license fee shall be turned over to the Village Treasurer for deposit
in the Corporate Fund. New licenses issued on or after November 1 shall require
payment of only one- half the annual license fee. There shall be no refund of
any fee paid of for any unused portion of the license period.
(Ord. 99-126, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.005 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   Any licensee failing to apply for the renewal of said license in a
timely manner shall be subject to the late filing penalties of $50 per day, to
a maximum of 30 days for each day a renewal application is late in relation to
the date upon which it should have been filed.
   (B)   During such period of delinquency, commencing immediately after the
date upon which the renewal application was required to be filed, and until
such fees and penalties are paid in conjunction with the filing of the renewal
application and its issuance, the individual or establishment shall cease all
operations relative to the towing of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 99-126, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.006 LICENSE TRANSFER.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one
year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as in this subchapter provided, and
shall not be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily.
(Ord. 99-126, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.007 TOW ORDERS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle or any part thereof removed from public
property shall be authorized for removal by a tow order duly executed by a law
enforcement agency having jurisdiction prior to the removal or tow of said
motor vehicle or part thereof.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle or any part thereof removed from privately owned
property shall be authorized for removal by a tow order duly executed by the
owner or lessee of the private property from which the motor vehicle or part
thereof is being towed prior to the removal or tow of said motor vehicle or
part thereof.
   (B)   Tow orders issued for removal of a motor vehicle or any part thereof
from public or privately owned property shall not be executed by the towing
service owner, operator, employee, agent or designee.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to violate the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 99-126, passed 10-18-1999) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.008 BOOKS AND RECORDS; EXAMINATION.
   The towing service shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all
towing orders issued hereunder and shall furnish the village’s Chief of Police
or the Department of Revenue with copies thereof upon request.
(Ord. 99-126, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.009 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Department of Revenue, its employees, agents or designees, shall be
charged with the administration of this subchapter, as follows:
   (A)   To grant, suspend for a period of up to one year for cause and/or
revoke for cause, all licensees issued pursuant to this subchapter;
   (B)   To enter, or authorize any designee to enter at any time upon any
premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of this
subchapter are being violated and at such time to examine the premises of the
licensees;
   (C)   To receive complaint(s) from any citizen of the village that any of
the provisions of this subchapter have been or are being violated and to take
such actions as shall be deemed necessary and advisable;
   (D)   (1)   To enter the premises of any towing service subject to the
provisions of this subchapter for inspection and examination of books and
records in order to effectuate the proper administration and enforcement of
this subchapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere
with any person so designated in the discharge of the duties in the performance
of this subchapter. It shall be the duty of every towing service business
subject to the provisions of this subchapter to keep accurate records and
complete books and records to which the Department of Revenue or any deputies,
representatives, employees, agents or designees thereof, shall at all times
have full access.
   (E)   (1)   To promulgate rules and regulations as deemed necessary, to
conduct hearings, to hear testimony and take proof of information in the
enforcement of this subchapter, and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which
shall be effective in any part of the state.
      (2)   For purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the
Department of Revenue under this subchapter, a designee may be appointed.
(Ord. 99-126, passed 10-18-1999) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.010 APPLICABILITY OF BUSINESS LICENSE, PERMIT PROVISIONS.
   All provisions of §
110.001 of this code of ordinances are applicable and are incorporated herein
as if full set forth.
(Ord. 99-126, passed 10-18-1999)
MOTOR VEHICLE STORAGE
§ 116.025 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases as defined in
the 625 ILCS 5/18c-1104, as amended, shall have the meanings and construction
in this subchapter as is given in said 625 ILCS 5/18c-1104, as amended.
(Ord. 99-127, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.026 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons, partnership, corporation or other
entity to operate or cause to be operated within the village a motor vehicle
storage facility without having first obtained a license therefor as required
by this subchapter.
(Ord. 99-127, passed 10-18-1999) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.027 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Applications for such license shall be submitted to the Village Clerk or to
such other person as may be designated and said application.
(Ord. 99-127, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.028 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual license fee for businesses with storing motor vehicles that
have the capacity to store:
 
10 motor vehicles                             $350
More than 10 motor vehicles, but less than 25 $750
More than 25 motor vehicles, but less than 50 $1,000
50 or more motor vehicles                     $1,200
 
   (B)   Said annual license fee shall be paid to the Village Clerk or such
other person as may be designated. Upon such payment, the business license fee
shall be turned over to the Village Treasurer for deposit in the Corporate
Fund. New licenses issued on or after November 1 shall require payment of only
one-half the annual license fee. There shall be no refund of any fee paid of
for any unused portion of the license period.
(Ord. 99-127, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.029 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   Any licensee failing to apply for the renewal of said license in a
timely manner shall be subject to the late filing penalties of $50 per day, to
a maximum of 30 days for each day a renewal application is late in relation to
the date upon which it should have been filed.
   (B)   During such period of delinquency, commencing immediately after the
date upon which the renewal application was required to be filed, and until
such fees and penalties are paid in conjunction with the filing of the renewal
application and its issuance, the individual or establishment shall cease all
operations relative to the storing of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 99-127, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.030 LICENSE TRANSFER.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one
year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as in this subchapter provided, and
shall not be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily.
(Ord. 99-127, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.031 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OR RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All current employees of a business operating a motor vehicle storage
facility shall, within 60 days of enactment of this subchapter, and all future
employees of a business operating a motor vehicle storage facility, shall be
fingerprinted and subject to a background check.
   (B)   No motor vehicle storing company or facility shall employ or hire any
person(s):
      (1)   Who is not of good character and reputation in the community in
which he or she resides;
      (2)   Who has been convicted of a felony under any state or federal law;
or
      (3)   Who has been convicted of a crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency
and morality.
(Ord. 99-127, passed 10-18-1999) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.032 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Department of Revenue, its employees, agents or designees, shall be
charged with the administration of this subchapter, as follows:
   (A)   To grant, suspend for a period of up to one year for cause and/or
revoke for cause, all licensees issued pursuant to this subchapter;
   (B)   To enter, or authorize any designee to enter at any time upon any
premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of this
subchapter are being violated and at such time to examine the premises of the
licensees or any vehicles thereof;
   (C)   To receive complaint(s) from any citizen of the village that any of
the provisions of this subchapter have been or are being violated and to take
such actions as shall be deemed necessary and advisable;
   (D)   To enter the premises of any motor vehicle storing business subject to
the provisions of this subchapter for inspection and examination of books and
records in order to effectuate the proper administration and enforcement of
this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or
interfere with any person so designated in the discharge of the duties in the
performance of this subchapter. It shall be the duty of every such business
subject to the provisions of this subchapter to keep accurate records and
complete books and records to which the Department of Revenue or any deputies,
representatives, employees, agents or designees thereof, shall at all times
have full access; and
   (E)   To promulgate rules and regulations as deemed necessary, to conduct
hearings, to hear testimony and take proof of information in the enforcement of
this subchapter, and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be
effective in any part of the state. For purpose of obtaining any of the
information desired by the Department of Revenue under this subchapter, a
designee may be appointed.
(Ord. 99-127, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 116.033 APPLICABILITY OF BUSINESS LICENSE, PERMIT PROVISIONS.
   All provisions of §
110.001 of this code of ordinances are applicable and are incorporated herein
as if fully set forth:
   (A)   Suspension of business license for a period up to one year; or
   (B)   Revocation of business license.
(Ord. 99-127, passed 10-18-1999)
GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS AND STORAGE PLANTS
§ 116.045 DEFINITION.
   SERVICE STATION is any place of business where gasoline or any highly
volatile fuels for motor vehicles or internal combustion engines are sold or
offered for sale at retail and dispensed into fuel tanks of such motor
vehicles. This definition shall include any private storage and dispensing of
such products for the same purpose as those served by a service station,
whether the storage is maintained for the use or benefit of the owner, lessee,
agents or employees of either, or of any others.
(Prior Code, § 3-18A-1)
§ 116.046 LICENSE REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a service station in the
village without having first obtained a license therefor.
   (B)   No such license shall be issued unless the location and equipment to
be used fully comply with this village code.
(Prior Code, § 3-18A-2) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.047 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for such business shall be established by ordinance
as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-18A-3) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 116.048 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   No license for a gasoline service station shall be issued unless all of the
requirements of the Building Code adopted by reference in this village code are
fully complied with.
(Prior Code, § 3-18A-4)
§ 116.049 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS TO STORAGE PLANTS.
   The requirements covering service stations shall also govern underground
storage maintained at general storage plants and places other than service
stations, so far as possible.
(Prior Code, § 3-18A-5)
PUBLIC GARAGES
§ 116.060 DEFINITION.
   A PUBLIC GARAGE is any building or premises used or held out or advertised
to the public by the owner or person occupying or maintaining the same for the
renting, sale, storage or repair of automobiles or other motor vehicles, except
motorcycles.
(Prior Code, § 3-18B-1)
§ 116.061 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate or maintain a public garage in the village
without first having obtained a license therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such licenses shall state thereon the location of the
garage and the number of cars which can be accommodated therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-18B-2) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.062 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee for a public garage maintained for the repair or
storage only of automobiles; for a public garage maintained for the renting,
sale, storage or repair of automobiles, which shall include the sale of used
automobiles on the same premises or at one location other than the same
premises and for the sale of used automobiles only, shall be established by
ordinance as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(A) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-18B-3) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 116.063 BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any public garage in a
frame or wooden building, or in any building or structure used for church,
school or theater purposes or in any building which does not conform to the
requirements of this subchapter or any provisions of this code of ordinances
relating thereto.
   (B)   The premises of every garage must be kept clean and free from
inflammable waste material.
(Prior Code, § 3-18B-4) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.064 FIRE SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Smoking. It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or light a
cigarette, pipe or cigar in any public garage, except in such portion thereof
as may be separated from the remainder of the premises by a partition and used
only for office purposes or outside the building.
   (B)   Fire extinguishers. There shall be kept in each public garage, fire
extinguishers approved by the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 3-18B-5) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.065 PROHIBITED ACT; CHANGING VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change the identification marks on
the engine of any car or automobile in any public garage, and it shall be
unlawful to change the license tags on such cars, except pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 3-18B-6) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.066 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and the Fire Chief to make or
cause to be made such inspections of public garages as may be necessary to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this code of ordinances. Any police
officer shall be permitted at any reasonable hour to view every car stored or
kept in any public garage as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this code of ordinances, and it shall be unlawful to hinder any
such inspection or to conceal any car or motor vehicle from such officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-18B-7) Penalty, see §
116.999
PARKING LOTS
§ 116.080 DEFINITION.
   The term PARKING LOT, as used in this subchapter, shall be construed to mean
and include any premises, enclosures or other places (other than a licensed
public garage) where four or more automobiles may be stored or parked and where
rent is paid or compensation is paid to the owner, manager or lessee of such
premises for the storing or parking of such vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 3-18C-1)
§ 116.081 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a parking lot without having first
obtained a license therefor.
   (B)   The annual fee for such license shall be as provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-18C-2) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.082 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Parking or storing disabled vehicles. It shall be unlawful to park or
store in any parking lot any vehicle which is not in condition and ready for
use, or to permit the parking of any abandoned, junked or partially dismantled
vehicle in any such lot.
   (B)   Display of vehicles for sale; use of lot as an automobile repair shop.
It shall be unlawful to use any parking lot for storage or parking of any
vehicle for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or to use any parking lot or
portion thereof as an automobile repair shop.
(Prior Code, § 3-18C-3) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.083 ENTERING AND EXITING FROM LOTS.
   No person operating a parking lot shall invite or permit any person to drive
into such lot over any sidewalk, curb or parkway at any place other than a
permanent driveway, or in any way in violation of any provision of this code of
ordinances. Vehicles driving into or out of such parking lot shall be driven
with due respect to traffic conditions and in accordance with police
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-18C-4) Penalty, see §
116.999
TAXICABS; VEHICLES FOR HIRE
§ 116.095 DEFINITION.
   The term PUBLIC VEHICLE, when used in this subchapter, shall be construed to
include and to mean any taxicab, bus, automobile or other similar vehicle used
in the business of carrying persons for hire upon the public streets of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 3-18D-1)
§ 116.096 LICENSE REQUIRED; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   A license shall be required to operate taxicabs or other public
vehicles on the public streets, to occupy cabstands and to pick up and
discharge passengers with the village. It shall be unlawful to operate a public
vehicle as aforesaid without a license.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall issue licenses to qualified applicants as
designated from time to time by resolution of the President and Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-18D-2) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.097 QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   License qualifications shall include safe, clean and sanitary equipment with
brakes, lights and turning signals and in good operating condition, subject to
periodic inspection; adequate insurance coverage; and approved rate schedule
and drivers licensed by the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-18D-3) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.098 LICENSE FEE; TERM.
   (A)   The annual license fee for such business shall be established by
ordinance as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued annually for a period of one year, beginning
on May 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 3-18D-4) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 116.099 NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED.
   The number of licenses shall be determined by resolution of the Village
Board from time to time, based on the public convenience and necessity.
Licenses may be issued to one or more qualified taxicab companies approved by
the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-18D-5)
§ 116.100 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Generally. Licensees shall be entitled to occupy cab stands where
permitted within the village and to pick up and deliver passengers within the
village limits.
   (B)   Fare required. No public vehicle, whether licensed or not by the
village, shall carry passengers on the village streets without charging a fee
therefor.
   (C)   Soliciting trade. It shall be unlawful for the owner or driver of any
such vehicle to solicit by word, gesture or otherwise, the patronage of any
person at any railroad station or upon any public place in the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-18D-6) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.101 OPERATION OF TAXICABS.
   Taxicab operating rules and regulations may be established by resolution of
the Board from time to time. Failure to comply with these rules and regulations
shall constitute just cause for license revocation.
(Prior Code, § 3-18D-7)
§ 116.102 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEALS.
   Licenses may be revoked at any time by the President for failure to maintain
the standards as described in §
116.097 of this chapter or for any other cause. License revocations may be
appealed to the Board of Trustees in writing within ten days after receipt of
the revocation notice. After suitable inquiry, the Village Board may sustain or
reverse the revocation.
(Prior Code, § 3-18D-8)
§ 116.103 FOREIGN CAB COMPANIES.
   Foreign cab companies licensed in another municipality or meeting the
statutory requirements for public carriers shall be permitted to deliver
passengers picked up outside of the village to a destination in the village and
shall be permitted to pick up passengers who arrange for service within the
village limits for delivery to a location outside the village limits without a
license.
(Prior Code, § 3-18D-9)
VEHICLE/RAIL TRANSFER FACILITIES
§ 116.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNIT. Each definable trailer or container.
   VEHICLE/RAIL TRANSFER FACILITY. Any facility, terminal, complex or similar
operation primarily used to transfer trailers or containers for the shipping of
goods and commodities from or to railroad cars and tractor-type vehicles used
to pull such trailers or containers.
(Prior Code, § 3-18E-1)
§ 116.116 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, partnership, corporation or other entity shall operate or cause
to be operated within the village a vehicle/rail transfer facility without
having first obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-18E-2) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.117 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Applications for such license shall state the average number of vehicles or
units entering or departing such facility each day. This figure shall be based
upon the previous 90 days prior to the application date.
(Prior Code, § 3-18E-3)
§ 116.118 PREMISES REQUIREMENTS; INSPECTIONS.
   The premises on which a vehicle/rail transfer facility operates shall be
maintained in accordance with all applicable Building, Zoning and Fire
Prevention Codes. Additionally, the village may enter upon the premises to
verify compliance with all such codes and to ascertain the actual number of
units entering and/or departing such facility to verify the information
supplied on the license application.
(Prior Code, § 3-18E-4) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
EXPRESSMEN, DRAYMEN AND MOVERS
§ 116.130 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct the business of draymen,
carter, expressman or mover without first having obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-19-1) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.131 LICENSE APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Applications for such licenses shall designate thereon the name and
address of the licensee, the location of his or her business and the number of
vehicles intended to be used.
   (B)   The annual license fee for such licenses shall be as provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-19-2)
§ 116.132 LICENSE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Stolen property prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any drayman,
expressman, carter or mover to receive, move or conceal any property which he
or she knows to be or has reason to suspect to be stolen.
   (B)   Vehicle identification. Every vehicle used for such business shall
have printed thereon in a place easily visible from the side of the vehicle the
name and address of the owner in letters legible to one of normal eyesight at a
distance of 25 feet.
(Prior Code, § 3-19-3) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The village’s Police Department is hereby authorized to
immediately impound any towing vehicle utilized for the removal and towing of a
motor vehicle or part thereof that was used in the towing of a motor vehicle
without first having obtained a duly and properly executed tow order as set
forth in §§
116.001 through
116.010 of this chapter. The fine and penalty for release of said impounded
towing vehicle shall be $500.
      (2)   A towing service, and any of its officer or employees, that removes
or tows a motor vehicle or any part thereof without having first obtained a
duly and properly signed towing order shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor
and shall be subject to:
         (a)   A fine of not less than $100, nor more than $1,000, and/or
imprisonment for a period up to six months;
         (b)   Imprisonment for a period up to, but not in excess of, six
months;
         (c)   Suspension of business license for a period up to one year; and/
or
         (d)   Revocation of business license.
(Ord. 99-126, passed 10-18-1999)
CHAPTER 117: CONTRACTORS AND BUILDING SERVICES
Section
Contractors
   
117.001   Definition
   
117.002   Application of provisions
   
117.003   Registration and license required
   
117.004   License application
   
117.005   Registration fee; penalty
   
117.006   Bond and insurance requirements
   
117.007   Duties of contractors
   
117.008   Subcontractors
   
117.009   Inspection
   
117.010   Compliance with code provisions
House Movers and Wreckers
   
117.025   License required; fee
   
117.026   Bond requirements
   
117.027   Regulations
   
117.028   Inspections
CONTRACTORS
§ 117.001 DEFINITION.
   Any of the following shall be deemed a CONTRACTOR for the purpose of this
chapter and are defined as follows.
   BUILDING CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm or corporation who procures a building
permit, who may or may not perform any direct work, but who must sublet all of
the work to licensed specialty contractors and including anyone engaged in
rehabilitation of property (rehabers).
   CONTRACTOR. Also includes, but is not limited to, the specific occupations
listed in §
117.006(A) of this chapter.
   GENERAL CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm or corporation who has the entire or
major portion of a contract, and who employs the basic trades directly to
perform building work and sublets to licensed specialty contractors.
   SPECIALTY CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm or corporation whose operations are
the performance of building work requiring special skills and whose principal
contracting business involves the use of a specialized building trade or craft.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-1)
§ 117.002 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter shall apply to all contractors doing business within the
village whether their place of business is located within or without the
corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-2)
§ 117.003 REGISTRATION AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of contractor for the erection,
construction, repair or alteration of any building or structure within the
village without first having registered with the Village Clerk, and it shall be
unlawful to engage in business in the village as a contractor without first
having obtained a license therefor, paying the applicable license fee and
filing the bond as hereinafter required.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-3) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 117.004 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Each application shall state the name of the applicant, applicant’s address,
number of persons to be operating under such license, type of license requested
and a statement that the applicant agrees to comply with all provisions of this
village code.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-4)
§ 117.005 REGISTRATION FEE; PENALTY.
   (A)   The annual fee for registering as a contractor shall be established by
ordinance as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-5)
   (B)   In addition to other authorized penalties, any contractor, as defined
in this subchapter, that fails to register as required prior to commencing work
within the village shall be liable for an additional registration fee penalty
in the amount of 50% of the registration fee otherwise payable.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-5-1)
(Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986; Ord. 88-104, passed 1-26-1988)
§ 117.006 BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Bond.
      (1)   Every applicant for a certificate of registration and a license as
a contractor shall execute and file with the Village Clerk a bond with good and
sufficient sureties to be approved by the Village President in the following
penal sums hereinafter shown as applicable to said contractor specialty.
         (a)   Five thousand dollar bond.
            1.   Decorating;
            2.   Painting;
            3.   Fence;
            4.   Roofing insulation;
            5.   Tile, marble or mosaic;
            6.   Air conditioning;
            7.   Awning or storm windows;
            8.   Doors carpenter;
            9.   Cement and concrete;
            10.   Drywall;
            11.   Electrical;
            12.   Excavating;
            13.   Furnace installer, cleaner or repairer;
            14.   Gas main;
            15.   Landscaper;
            16.   Lathing;
            17.   Masonry, including excavator and cement;
            18.   Paving;
            19.   Plastering;
            20.   Sign painter;
            21.   Sheet metal, including signs;
            22.   Steel erector, including signs;
            23.   Tuckpointing, building cleaning;
            24.   Water;
            25.   General building contractor, including: carpentry, drywall
and floor tile and insulation;
            26.   Glass installer; and
            27.   Heating.
         (b)   Ten thousand dollar bond.
            1.   Catch basin cleaner;
            2.   Sewer plumber; and
            3.   Sign installer.
         (c)   Twenty thousand dollar bond. House wrecker.
      (2)   The bond shall be payable to the village for the use of any persons
with whom such applicant shall thereafter contract to do work to indemnify any
such persons for damages sustained on account of the failure of such contractor
to perform work so contracted for or on account of the failure of such
contractor to perform the work so contracted for in accordance with any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances or on account of the failure of such
contractor to perform the work so contracted for in a good and workmanlike
manner.
   (B)   Insurance.
      (1)   No contractor shall be licensed to engage in business as provided
for in this subchapter unless such contractor shall provide, in addition to all
other requirements imposed by this subchapter, a certificate of insurance
verifying the existence of a current public liability policy in the name of the
contractor.
      (2)   Said insurance policy shall include coverage for personal injury in
an amount not less than $100,000 and property damage in an amount not less than
$50,000. The contractor shall be required to furnish the village with a new
certificate upon expiration, lapse, cancellation or other change or
interruption in coverage and the Building Commissioner shall be empowered to
suspend the license of any contractor found to be in violation of this division
(B). Proof of current insurance may be demanded at any time of a contractor
engaged in business in the village by the Building Commissioner, the Building
Inspector or their lawful designees.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-6) (Ord. 85-104, passed 5-5-1985; Ord. 07-410, passed 8-6-
2007)
§ 117.007 DUTIES OF CONTRACTORS.
   It shall be the duty of all contractors licensed hereunder to comply with
all provisions of this code of ordinances relating to or regulating the
activities engaged in and, in addition thereto, to at least once a week remove
or cause to be removed from the site of contractors’ activities all trash,
refuse and waste materials. Contractors shall at all times keep the site of
activities in an orderly condition, free from standing water, unguarded,
dangerous implements and health and safety hazards, and contractors shall not
obstruct traffic on streets or sidewalks or permit dirt or waste materials to
fall or be carried onto such public ways.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-7) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 117.008 SUBCONTRACTORS.
   (A)   License required. Any person doing business as a subcontractor shall
be construed as engaged in the business of a contractor for which a license is
required by this subchapter.
   (B)   Bond requirements. The provisions relating to a bond to be filed by
each contractor shall not apply in the event the developer, general contractor
or building contractor shall elect to file a bond in the penal amount equal to
the sum of the contract price for the construction work agreed upon, which bond
shall cover the acts and work of each and every contractor or subcontractor
engaged in the construction work agreed upon, and which bond shall be payable
to the village for the use of any person or persons, with whom such developer,
general contractor or building contractor shall contract to do work, to
indemnify any such person or persons for damages sustained on account of the
failure of such developer, general contractor or building contractor or any
subcontractor employed thereon to perform work so contracted for, in accordance
with any of the provisions of this code of ordinances, or on account of the
failure of such developer, general contractor or builder, or any subcontractor
employed thereon, to perform the work so contracted for in a good and
workmanlike manner; provided, however, that, each contractor so engaged by said
developer, general contractor or building contractor must pay the registration
or license fee. Such bond filed by any contractor or developer shall be
conditioned to indemnify, keep and save harmless the village and its officers
and employees against any loss, cost, damage, judgment or liability of any kind
whatsoever which the village may suffer or be part to, or which may accrue
against, be charged to or be recovered from the village or any of its employees
or officials by reason of any act or thing done or neglected to be done under
or by virtue of the authority given in such license.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-8)
§ 117.009 INSPECTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter are declared to be of a regulatory nature
and it shall at all times be the duty of the Police Department, the Health
Department, the Fire Department and the Building Commissioner regularly to
inspect the site of contractors’ activities to see that the same are being
conducted and operated in accordance with the requirements of all provisions of
this code of ordinances relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-9)
§ 117.010 COMPLIANCE WITH CODE PROVISIONS.
   It shall be the duty of all contractors to comply with all provisions of
this code of ordinances relating to the erection, construction, alteration,
installation, repair or maintenance of any building or structures, to the
construction of streets, sidewalks or pavements, and all provisions pertaining
to or regulating the activities engaged in.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-10) Penalty, see §
10.999
HOUSE MOVERS AND WRECKERS
§ 117.025 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of moving, razing or
shoring buildings without first having secured a license therefor.
   (B)   The annual fee for building movers’ licenses shall be as provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-20A-1) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 117.026 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   Every licensee under the provisions of this subchapter shall file with the
Clerk a bond in the sum of $20,000 with sureties to be approved by the
corporate authorities and conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss,
damage or expense occasioned by it; by any act or failure to act of the
licensee; or by any failure of the licensee to comply with the provisions of
this code of ordinances relating to the business of wrecking or moving
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 3-20A-2)
§ 117.027 REGULATIONS.
   Persons licensed under this subchapter must comply with all code provisions
relating to the work being done, must pay the permit fee required for moving
buildings and must keep lights and warnings maintained as is required by the
provisions of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-20A-3) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 117.028 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make or cause to be made such
inspections as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-20A-4)
CHAPTER 118: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   License requirement
   
118.03   Application procedure
   
118.04   Standards for issuance
   
118.05   Revocation procedure
   
118.06   Standards for revocation
   
118.07   Appeal procedure
   
118.08   Exhibition of identification
   
118.09   Village policy on soliciting
   
118.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
118.11   Duty of solicitors
   
118.12   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
118.13   Time limit on soliciting
 
   
118.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of village to license, tax, regulate or prohibit peddlers,
itinerant merchants or transient vendors, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person not an itinerant merchant who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale or
making sales or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 118.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in this activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Board of Trustees and set forth by ordinance or resolution.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
the applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above,
has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor, and if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has committed the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 118.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing pursuant to the standards in §
118.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 118.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 118.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
118.04 or
118.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees.
         (b) The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees,
within 14 days after notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s
last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall set the time and place for a hearing,
and notice for the hearing shall be given to the person in the same manner as
provided in §
118.05.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
§ 118.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter.
      (2)   The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed
Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license and the number of the license.
      (3)   The license shall be kept with the licensee during the time that he
or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.09 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 118.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 118.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
118.10, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.12 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
118.10.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.13 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a
residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound
in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of the
residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof
and engage in soliciting prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. of any weekday
or Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$750. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 119: ADVERTISERS AND ADVERTISING DISTRIBUTORS
Section
General Provisions
   
119.001   Advertisements on public or private property; consent required
Outdoor Advertisers and Billposters
   
119.015   Definitions
   
119.016   Licenses required
   
119.017   License application; approval
   
119.018   License fees
   
119.019   Bond requirements
Handbill and Samples Distributors
   
119.030   License application; investigation
   
119.031   License fee
   
119.032   Distribution to the public prohibited; exceptions
 
   
119.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 119.001 ADVERTISEMENTS ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY; CONSENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Public property. No person shall place or cause to be placed any
advertisement on village property without the express consent of the corporate
authorities.
   (B)   Private property. No person shall place or cause to be placed any
advertisement on any private structure or building, unless he or she is the
owner thereof, without the consent in writing of the owner.
   (C)   Village property.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to affix
any handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any
telephone pole, electric pole, telegraph pole, light pole, utility pole,
traffic light pole, traffic sign pole or upon any village property, or upon
private property without consent of the owner.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit the village
from posting notices.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-3) Penalty, see §
119.999
OUTDOOR ADVERTISERS AND BILLPOSTERS
§ 119.015 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADVERTISER. Any person engaged in the business of placing, posting or
painting any advertisements, notices or displays in or on any place for the
purpose of outdoor advertising so that the resultant display is visible from
any public place.
      BILLBOARDS or SIGNBOARDS. All outdoor structures used for the public
display of advertising material; except that, such terms shall not include
signs erected or maintained on roofs, or signs attached to or painted upon the
walls of buildings.
      SIGN. Includes all advertising structures having a face similar to a
billboard or signboard, but which are erected and maintained on the roofs, or
attached to the walls of buildings.
   (B)   The terms “billboards”, “signboard” or “sign”, as herein used, shall
not be held to include any board, sign or surface used to display official
notices issued by any court or public office, or to include any board or sign
having an area of less than 25 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-1-1)
§ 119.016 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Billposters and sign painters. No person shall do any billposting or
sign painting within the limits of the village without first having procured a
license for so doing.
   (B)   Outdoor advertisers. It is unlawful for any outdoor advertiser to do
business in the village without first having secured a license therefor as
required herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-1-2) Penalty, see §
119.999
§ 119.017 LICENSE APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Applications for licenses required in the preceding section shall be
accompanied by a list of all places on which it is intended to place signs or
advertisements.
   (B)   This list may be added to from time to time by the licensee, who shall
have the right to post or place advertisements or signs on additional places as
acquired; provided that, the Village Clerk is first notified of such place.
   (C)   No such license shall be issued and no location shall be approved,
except upon favorable action of the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-1-3)
§ 119.018 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Billposters and sign painters. The annual license fee for billposters
and sign painters shall be as provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Outdoor advertisers. The annual fee for the license required by §
119.016(B) of this chapter shall be as provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances. In addition to such license fee, there
shall be paid the fees required by §
151.192 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-1-4)
§ 119.019 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person engaged in the business of constructing, erecting and
maintaining billboards, signboards or signs in the village shall file with the
Village Clerk a bond, with sureties to be approved by the Village President, in
the sum of $10,000, conditioned that such person shall faithfully comply with
the provisions of this subchapter and §§
151.190 through
151.199 of this code of ordinances with reference to the construction,
alteration, maintenance and safety of such billboards, signboards and signs,
and for payment of such fees as are provided to be paid, and further, to save
and keep harmless the village and its officials from all damages, liability,
losses or judgments which may be claimed or recovered by any person against the
village by reason of the erection, maintenance, removal or repair of any such
billboard, signboard or sign.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-1-5)
HANDBILL AND SAMPLES DISTRIBUTORS
§ 119.030 LICENSE APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Applications for such licenses shall contain a statement of the nature
of the article, cards or advertisement to be distributed, the name of the
applicant and the name of the manufacturer or distributor of such article or
service advertised.
   (B)   No such license shall be issued to any but a person of good character.
The Chief of Police shall make or cause to be made an investigation into the
character of each applicant and shall report the results thereof to the
President before any such license shall be issued.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-2-1)
§ 119.031 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for such licenses shall be as provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-2-2)
§ 119.032 DISTRIBUTION TO THE PUBLIC PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to distribute or to cause to be distributed to the
public, any cards, circulars, handbills, samples of merchandise or medicinal
preparations, or any advertising matter whatsoever, on any public place in the
village, or by leaving the same at stores, offices, houses or residences in the
village, except as provided in the following exceptions or qualifications.
   (A)   Notices or programs of public meetings or public celebrations or other
matters pertaining to the public welfare of the village may be so distributed
upon application to and approval of the President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Circulars, programs or other advertising matter relating solely to
plays, festivals, celebrations or other forms of entertainment which the public
is invited to attend or participate, with or without admission charges, when
sponsored by or promoted for the benefit of organized groups of individuals,
associations, corporations or institutions of an education, fraternal,
charitable, philanthropic or religious character may be so distributed upon
application and approval of the President and Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Advertising matter of publications, but not including free samples of
merchandise, that is printed or published at more or less regular intervals,
and to be delivered without charge or subscription fee only to residences or
places of business where the owners or occupants thereof have previously signed
a standard form card requesting such delivery, may be so distributed only to
those requesting same upon application to and approval of the President and
Board of Trustees; provided that, such signed cards are to be presented for
inspection by any police office or official of the village on request at any
time during business hours.
   (D)   Cards, circulars, dodgers, letters or notices relating solely to the
qualifications, political platform or policies of candidates for public office,
or to the platform or policies of political parties, or to any propositions
submitted for public referendum, or specimen ballots, may be so distributed
without approval of the President and Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Articles or merchandise sold or delivered by licensed peddlers,
whether or not accompanied by advertising matter, may be so distributed under
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (F)   Publications containing advertising matter, when such publications are
delivered upon a paid subscription or to members of an organization by virtue
of their membership therein, such delivery to be by carrier, may be so
distributed without approval of the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-2-3)
§ 119.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §
119.001 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine as set forth in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Each day any violation hereof shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-3)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §§
119.015 through
119.019 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine as set forth in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Each day any violation of any provision of
§§
119.015 through
119.019 of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-1-6)
CHAPTER 120: FOOD AND FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
120.001   Food sales restricted
   
120.002   Grocery stores and markets
   
120.003   Bakeries
   
120.004   Ice cream, confections and beverages
   
120.005   Food vending machines
   
120.006   Food delivery vehicles
   
120.007   Ice dealers
   
120.008   Health inspection fees
Fish and Shellfish
   
120.020   Definitions
   
120.021   Notice of country of origin
   
120.022   Inclusion of food service establishments
   
120.023   Method of notification
   
120.024   Audit verification system
   
120.025   Enforcement
   
120.026   Guidelines and regulations
Restaurants
   
120.040   Definitions
   
120.041   Licenses required; compliance with provisions
   
120.042   License application
   
120.043   License fee
   
120.044   Inspections
   
120.045   License issuance; term; non-transferability; license to be posted
   
120.046   Hours of operation
   
120.047   Grade A restaurant standards
   
120.048   Diseased employees
   
120.049   Ice cream vendors
   
120.050   License suspension or revocation; reinstatement
 
   
120.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 120.001 FOOD SALES RESTRICTED.
   No article of food or drink intended for human use or consumption, and no
articles of such food or drink, or article which may be used in the composition
or preparation of such food or drink which is not then healthy, fresh, sound
and wholesome, fit and safe for such use; and no animal or fish that died by
disease or accident, and no carcass of any calf, pig or lamb which at the time
of its death was less than four weeks old, and no meat therefrom, shall be
brought within the limits of the village and offered or held for sale as food
anywhere in said village.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-1) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.002 GROCERY STORES AND MARKETS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EMPLOYEE. A person shall be considered an EMPLOYEE if he or she is
scheduled to work 20 or more hours per week and 20 or more weeks per year.
      GROCERY or MARKET. An established place of business offering for sale at
retail and for consumption off the premises any fruit, vegetables, ice cream,
milk and milk products, meat, poultry, fish, seafood or other food product
whether fresh, frozen or sold in cans, bottles, boxes, cartons or other
containers, but shall not include those establishments commonly known as
confectionery stores selling ice cream, drinks, candy or bakeries. In the event
the applicant shall qualify as a bakery or florist, an additional fee as set
forth in those provisions shall be paid and additional fees shall be paid for
cigarettes, vending machines and alcoholic liquor sales as set forth in those
provisions.
(Prior Code, § 4-7B-1)
   (B)   License required. No person shall operate a grocery or market within
the village without first having obtained a license to do so from the Village
Clerk. Application for such license shall be made pursuant to §
110.004 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-7B-2)
   (C)   License fees. An annual license fee shall be paid by each applicant
based on the number of employees as provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-7B-3)
Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.003 BAKERIES.
   (A)   Definition. Any place or establishment used for any process of mixing,
compounding or baking for sale or the purpose of a restaurant, bakery or hotel,
any bread, biscuits, pretzels, crackers, buns, rolls, macaroni, cake, pies or
any food product of which flour or meal is the principal ingredient shall be
deemed a BAKERY for the purpose of this section; provided that, restaurants in
which any of the foregoing food products are mixed and baked, for consumption
in said restaurants only, shall not be considered to be bakeries.
(Prior Code, § 4-7C-1)
   (B)   License required; fee.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a bakery in the village
without having first obtained a license therefor.
      (2)   The annual license fee for such business shall be established by
ordinance as set forth in the license fee schedule in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-7C-2)
   (C)   Health and sanitation regulations.
      (1)   Generally. Every place used as a bakery shall be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition.
      (2)   Light and ventilation. All parts of the bakery shall be adequately
lighted at all times and shall be ventilated by means of windows or skylights
or airshafts or ducts or mechanical apparatus if necessary, to ensure a free
circulation of fresh air at all times. Such ventilation construction and
equipment shall be of such character that a complete change of air in all parts
of the bakery must be made at least four times each hour; provided, however,
that, it shall not be necessary to ventilate at such times or in such manner
that the process of mixing or raising dough shall of necessity be interfered
with or prevented.
      (3)   Floors. The floor of every place used as a bakery, if below street
level, shall be constructed of concrete, cement, asphalt or other impervious
material, or of tile laid on cement. Such floors may, if desired, be covered
with a hardwood floor having tight joints or may be of any impervious material
as above provided.
      (4)   Flies, rodents and vermin. Every place used as a bakery shall be
kept free from flies, rodents and vermin of all kinds.
      (5)   Sleeping facilities. No person shall sleep, and no sleeping
accommodations shall be maintained, in any bakery or in the rooms where flour
and meal used in connection therewith or the food products made therein are
handled or stored.
      (6)   Storage of materials. All rooms for the storage of flour or meal
for use in connection with any bakery shall be dry and well ventilated, and
every bakery and room used for storage of materials and food products in
connection therewith shall be so arranged that the shelves, cupboards, trays,
troughs, bins and cases can be easily removed and cleaned.
      (7)   Use of tobacco. The use of tobacco in any form in a bakery is
hereby prohibited. Notices to this effect shall be placed in a prominent place
in every bakery by the proprietor thereof; but the absence of such notice shall
not excuse any person for any violation of this provision.
      (8)   Wearing apparel. All workers and employees, while engaged in the
manufacturing or handling of bakery products in a bakery, shall provide
themselves with slippers or shoes and a suit of washable material which shall
be used for that purpose only. These garments shall be kept clean at all times.
(Prior Code, § 4-7C-3)
   (D)   Inspections. It shall be the duty of the President to make, or cause
to be made, such inspections as may be necessary to see to it that the
provisions of this section are fully complied with.
(Prior Code, § 4-7C-4)
Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.004 ICE CREAM, CONFECTIONS AND BEVERAGES.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of
the manufacture or wholesale distribution of candy, ice cream, non-alcoholic
carbonated beverages or other confections other than bakery goods without first
having obtained a license therefor as is herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 4-7D-1)
   (B)   License fee. The annual license fee for such business shall be
established by ordinance as set forth in the license fee schedule in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-7D-2)
   (C)   Sanitary conditions.
      (1)   Premises. All premises used for such manufacture shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   Employees.
         (a)   All employees therein shall keep themselves clean both as to
person and clothing where their duties bring them in contact with food and
materials used in the manufacture of the confection.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful to employ anyone in any such establishment
afflicted with a contagious or venereal disease.
(Prior Code, § 4-7D-3)
   (D)   Wholesomeness of materials.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to use in such business any material which, as
a part of the product, may be harmful to health, or any material which is
adulterated in violation of state or federal statutes.
      (2)   All milk used in the manufacture of ice cream shall be of a
standard which may be sold at retail under the provisions of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-7D-4)
   (E)   Inspections. The President shall cause to be made such inspections as
may be necessary under the provisions of this section for its enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 4-7D-5)
(Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.005 FOOD VENDING MACHINES.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any coin-controlled or
coin-operated machine, commonly known as a vending machine, for the sale or
dispensing of merchandise of any kind, including, but not limited to food,
candy, nuts, gum and non-alcoholic beverages, to be installed on any premises
without first having obtained a license.
(Prior Code, § 4-7E-1)
   (B)   Application for license. Any person desiring a license for any coin-
controlled or coin-operated vending machine shall set forth the name of the
applicant, the address at which he or she conducts business, the address of the
place where such machines are located, the number of such vending machines and
the coin denomination required for each such machine.
(Prior Code, § 4-7E-2)
   (C)   License fee. The annual license fee for such business and each machine
shall be established by ordinance as set forth in §
110.018(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-7E-3)
   (D)   Sanitary conditions; wholesomeness of merchandise.
      (1)   All food vending machines shall be kept and maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition, and the food and beverages sold and dispensed therefrom
shall be pure and wholesome.
      (2)   The operation of any machine found to be in an unsanitary condition
or containing impure or unwholesome food or beverages shall be stopped until
said machine has been cleaned or the impure or unwholesome food or beverages
removed and replaced with pure and wholesome food or beverages.
(Prior Code, § 4-7E-4)
   (E)   Inspections and analyses. The President shall be authorized and
empowered to make or cause to be made inspections from time to time of said
machines to determine whether said machines are in a sanitary condition and
whether the merchandise thereby offered for sale is pure and wholesome. Any
licensee hereunder shall, upon demand of the President, furnish him or her for
his or her inspection samples of any such food sold through said machines. A
record of the analysis of the contents of such machine or machines shall be
kept in the office of the President. If any analysis shows that any licensee is
selling or offering for sale food which is impure or unwholesome, or that said
machines are kept in an unsanitary condition, the President, after affording
such licensee an opportunity to be heard with respect to the findings and
analyses of the President may, if the facts warrant, revoke the license of such
person.
(Prior Code, § 4-7E-5)
   (F)   Revocation of license. Any license granted under the terms of this
section may be revoked by the President by notice in writing to the licensee
whenever it shall appear to his or her satisfaction that the person so licensed
shall have violated any of the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-7E-6)
(Ord. passed 5-1-1973; Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.006 FOOD DELIVERY VEHICLES.
   (A)   License required; compliance with provisions. It shall be unlawful to
use or permit the use of any vehicle, including vehicles propelled by human
power, for the storage or carrying of any food or beverage or any other
provisions intended for human consumption, for the purpose of delivering any
such food or beverage for the use and consumption or for resale unless a
license for such vehicles is first secured and the provisions of this section
fully complied with.
(Prior Code, § 4-7F-1)
   (B)   Application for license; fees.
      (1)   Applications for such licenses shall recite the name and address of
the owner of the vehicle, the name or names of the persons for whom such
deliveries are made and the nature of the goods carried.
      (2)   The annual fee for a non-motorized vehicle and the annual fee for a
motorized vehicle shall be as provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-7F-2)
   (C)   Sanitary conditions.
      (1)   All such vehicles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be thoroughly cleaned each day they are so used. It shall be unlawful
to permit stale food, decaying matter or any other waste or material to
accumulate in or on any such vehicle while it is so used.
      (2)   If unwrapped food and beverages are transported in any vehicle,
such goods shall be carried in a portion or compartment of the vehicle which is
screened and protected against dust and insects.
(Prior Code, § 4-7F-3)
Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.007 ICE DEALERS.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of
the retail sale of ice in the village without first having obtained a license
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-1)
   (B)   Application for license. Application for such license shall contain
the number of vending machines on the premises and the number of vehicles to be
used for the delivery of ice together with the other information required in
such application. Whenever the number of vehicles or vending machines so used
is increased, notice of this fact shall be given to the Clerk and the fee
provided therein shall be paid.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-2)
   (C)   License fees. The annual fee for such ice dealer’s license shall be as
provided in §
110.018(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-3)
   (D)   Ice standards. All ice sold or offered for sale shall be free from
harmful materials, if such ice is sold or offered for sale for domestic use.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-4)
Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.008 HEALTH INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Any inspection of an establishment selling food, either for
consumption on the premises or off the premises, shall be subject to the
following fees in connection with health inspections performed by the village’s
Health Inspectors:
 
Day care centers (half-day)                                         $150
Day care centers (full day)                                         $300
Food dispensing establishments offering food for consumption on the $150
premises and containing fewer than 26 seats
Food dispensing establishments offering food for consumption on the $300
premises and containing 26 or more seats
Food purveyor/no open foods offered for sale                        $300
Private schools                                                     $300
 
   (B)   (1)   An additional $100 re-inspection fee will be assessed per each
re-inspection for any premises which fails its inspection.
      (2)   A premises which fails two re-inspections shall also be subject to
suspension or revocation in accordance with governing provisions of the village
code.
(Ord. 14-015, passed 6-2-2014) Penalty, see §
120.999
FISH AND SHELLFISH
§ 120.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED COMMODITY.
      (1)   In general:
         (a)   Farm-raised fish; and
         (b)   Wild fish.
      (2)   The term COVERED COMMODITY does not include an item described in
division (1) above if the item is an ingredient in a processed food item.
   FARM-RAISED FISH. Includes:
      (1)   Farm-raised shellfish; and
      (2)   Fillets, steaks, nuggets and any other flesh from a farm-raised
fish or shellfish.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
      (1)   Restaurants, food stands, taverns, saloons, bars, lounge or other
similarly facility operated as an enterprise engaged in the business of selling
food to the public including salad bars and delicatessens and other food
enterprises located within retail establishments that provide ready-to-eat
foods.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not apply to schools or school breakfast and
lunch programs.
   WILD FISH. Naturally-born or hatchery-raised fish and shellfish harvested in
the wild; inclusions include a fillet, steak, nugget and any other flesh from
wild or shellfish; excluding net-pen aquacultural or other farm-raised fish.
(Ord. 07-425, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 120.021 NOTICE OF COUNTRY OF ORIGIN.
   (A)   Notice requirement. Except as provided in division (B) below, a
retailer of a covered commodity shall inform consumers, at the final point-of-
sale of the covered commodity to consumers, of the country of origin of the
covered commodity.
   (B)   United States country of origin. A retailer of a covered commodity may
designate the covered commodity as having a United States country of origin
only if, in the case of wild fish:
      (1)   It is harvested in waters of the United States, a territory of the
United States or a state; and
      (2)   It is processed in the United States, a territory of the United
States or a state, including waters thereof.
   (C)   Wild fish and farm-raised fish. The notice of country of origin for
wild fish and farm-raised fish shall distinguish between wild fish and farm-
raised fish.
(Ord. 07-425, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 120.022 INCLUSION OF FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   This subchapter shall apply to all fish and shellfish:
   (A)   Prepared or served in a food service establishment;
   (B)   Offered for sale or sold at the food service establishment in normal
retail quantities; or
   (C)   Served to consumers at the food service establishment.
(Ord. 07-425, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 120.023 METHOD OF NOTIFICATION.
   The information required by §
120.021 of this chapter, notice of country of origin, may be provided to
consumers, in a clear and visible manner, by a means of a inclusion of said
information on the paper or Markey menu, or by posting of a sign in a clear and
visible place and manner upon entry to the establishment, serving area or
tables and/or such other method that the village’s Health Inspector deems
reasonable and appropriate. If the fish or shellfish is already individually
labeled for retail sale regarding country of origin, that the fish or shellfish
is being sold or served with said label affixed, then the retailer shall not be
required to provide any additional information to comply with this section.
(Ord. 07-425, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 120.024 AUDIT VERIFICATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Health Inspector may require that any person that prepares,
stores, handles or distributes a covered commodity for retail sale maintain a
verifiable recordkeeping audit trail that will permit the Health Inspector to
verify compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. The Health Inspector
shall develop and publish rules and regulations regarding the nature and
content of records to be kept for audit purposes.
   (B)   Any person engaged in the business of supplying fish or shellfish to a
retailer shall provide information to the retailer indicating the country of
origin of the fish and/or shellfish.
(Ord. 07-425, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.025 ENFORCEMENT.
   If the village’s Health Inspector determines that a retailer is in violation
of this subchapter, the Health Inspector shall:
   (A)   Notify the retailer of the determination by the Health Inspector; and
   (B)   Provide the retailer a 30-day period, beginning on the date on which
the retailer receives the notice under division (A) above from the Health
Inspector, during which the retailer may take necessary steps to comply with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-425, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 120.026 GUIDELINES AND REGULATIONS.
   Not later than 1-1-2008, the village’s Health Inspector shall promulgate and
issue such guidelines and regulations for country of original labeling for fish
and shellfish based upon the requirements set forth in this subchapter as are
necessary to implement this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-425, passed 11-19-2007)
RESTAURANTS
§ 120.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Hearth Inspector.
   BACTERICIDAL TREATMENT. The application of any method or substance for the
destruction of pathogens and all other organisms, so far as practicable, and
which, in the opinion of the Health Inspector, is effective and does not
adversely affect the food, drink or equipment with which it comes in contact,
or the health of the consumer of such food or drink.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. Any establishment where food and beverage is sold to
the consumer, and where motor vehicle parking space is provided, and where such
food and beverage is intended to be consumed in the motor vehicle upon the
premises or anywhere on the premises outside the building.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person working in a restaurant establishment, including the
proprietor, who handles food or drink during the preparation of serving, or who
comes in contact with any eating or cooking utensils, or who is employed in a
room in which food or drink is prepared or served.
   HEALTH INSPECTOR. The person so appointed by the Village President, with the
advice and consent of the Village Board; his or her compensation to be set by
ordinance.
   ITINERANT RESTAURANT. One operating for a temporary period in connection
with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition or other similar gathering.
   RESTAURANT. Any place that keeps for sale, sells and serves to the general
public, for consumption on the premises, any article of food or drink for human
consumption. Restaurants, ordinaries, coffee houses, ice cream parlors,
lunchrooms, tea rooms, lunch stand, box lunch deliveries, luncheonettes,
caféterias, taverns and retail liquor stores and drugstores serving sandwiches
or lunches and drinks, caterers and industrial food servers dispensing food or
drink to office personnel or employees of an industrial plant and any other
eating or drinking establishment, organization, club or guest house, whether
public or private, which sells or offers for sale food to the public, guests,
employees or patrons shall be included under the term RESTAURANT.
   SERVICE ACCOMMODATION. In the case of a restaurant is a seating place where
one patron or customer to be served can be seated and, in the case of a drive-
in restaurant, is a place provided on the premises for the parking of a
patron’s or customer’s motor vehicle.
   TAKE OUT RESTAURANT. Any establishment where food and beverage is prepared
for sale elsewhere or for consumption off the premises and shall include
catering functions.
   UTENSILS. Includes any kitchenware, tableware, glassware, cutlery, utensils,
containers or other equipment with which food or drink comes in contact during
storage, preparation or serving.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-1)
§ 120.041 LICENSES REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Restaurants and drive-ins. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a restaurant or drive-in, as defined herein, in the village without a
valid license.
   (B)   Itinerant restaurants. Any person conducting an itinerant restaurant
shall be required to secure a license. Only persons who comply with the
requirements of this subchapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such a
license.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-2) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.042 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   An application for a restaurant license shall be made in conformity with the
general requirements relating to applications for licenses. Such application
shall contain such further information as may be required by the Health
Inspector in order to inform him or her fully as to the size and nature of the
place to be used for the purposes of the business and the conditions, equipment
and facilities for conducting the business therein, the health of persons to be
employed, and the regulations and facilities provided for them.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-3)
§ 120.043 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for such business shall be established by ordinance
as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(A) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-4) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986)
§ 120.044 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Before any license shall be issued, the Health Inspector shall
cause an inspection to be made of the premises to be occupied by the applicant
as a restaurant, the equipment contained therein, the persons to be employed
therein, the sanitary and hygienic features and conditions and all other
matters relating to the business which he or she considers necessary or proper
to inquire into from the standpoint of health and sanitation.
      (2)   Before any such license shall be issued for a restaurant
establishment having service accommodations in excess of 15, the Building
Commissioner of the village shall cause an inspection to be made of the
premises to see that all building provisions of the village are complied with.
   (B)   (1)   At least once every four months, the Health Inspector shall
inspect every restaurant located within the village. In case the Health
Inspector discovers the violation of any item of sanitation, he or she shall
make a second inspection after the lapse of such time as he or she deems
necessary for the defect to be remedied, and the second inspection shall be
used in determining compliance with the requirements of this subchapter. Any
violation of the same item of this subchapter on such second inspection shall
call for the immediate suspension of the permit.
      (2)   (a)   One copy of the inspection report shall be posted by the
Health Inspector upon an inside wall of the restaurant and the inspection
report shall not be defaced or removed by any person, except the Health
Inspector.
         (b)   Another copy of the inspection report shall be filed with the
records of the Health Department.
      (3)   The person operating the restaurant, upon request of the Health
Inspector, shall permit access to all parts of the establishment and shall
permit the copying of any or all records of food purchased.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-5)
§ 120.045 LICENSE ISSUANCE; TERM; NON-TRANSFERABILITY; LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   (A)   The license shall be issued annually for the fiscal year to the person
named in the application and for the premises stated in the application and
shall state the type of restaurant for which it is issued.
   (B)   Said license shall not be transferable and shall be posted in a
conspicuous place to the patrons.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-6)
§ 120.046 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep open any premises licensed in this
subchapter or to sell or give away upon the premises any food or drink for
human consumption between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   In the event that the operator of any premises shall furnish proof of
convenience and necessity requiring such premises to service public needs
during the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., such operator may, on application,
be allowed a special license for such purpose; provided, however, that, no such
license shall be issued, except upon approval by the President and Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-7) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.047 GRADE A RESTAURANT STANDARDS.
   (A)   No restaurant shall be operated within the village or its police
jurisdiction unless it conforms with the Grade A or approved itinerant
restaurant requirements as determined by the Health Inspector.
   (B)   Grade A restaurants shall comply with all of the following items of
sanitation and disease control.
      (1)   Sanitary conditions.
         (a)   Premises.
            1.   All restaurants shall be kept in a clean and wholesome
condition, dry and adequately ventilated so as to ensure a free circulation of
fresh air at all times.
            2.   Such places shall be kept free from rats, mice, flies and
other insects and vermin.
            3.   No domestic animal shall be permitted in any such place where
flour or meal or other foodstuffs are kept or prepared.
            4.   The premises of all food establishments shall be kept clean
and free of litter or rubbish.
            5.   Adequate lockers or dressing room shall be provided outside of
the kitchen or other food-processing rooms for employee’s clothing. Soiled
linens, coats and aprons shall be kept in containers provided for this purpose
in the lockers or dressing room.
            6.   None of the operations connected with a restaurant shall be
conducted in any room used as living or sleeping quarters.
         (b)   Employees.
            1.   All employees shall be clean in person, and no individual
having an infectious disease in a communicable form or who is a carrier of
infectious disease or who has diarrhea, sore throat or a discharging or
apparently infected wound shall be employed in, or remain in a restaurant
establishment in any capacity which will require him or her to handle food or
handle dishes or other receptacles in which food is sold or served.
            2.   Employees preparing and handling foods shall be required to
wear clean outer garments and use hairnets, headbands or caps. Employees shall
not expectorate or use tobacco in any form in any room in which food is
prepared or served. The hands of all persons shall be kept clean while such
persons are engaged in the handling of food, drink, utensils or equipment;
provided, however, that, an employee who does not prepare or serve food shall
not be required to wear a cap or other hair confiner.
      (2)   Floors. The floors of all rooms in which food or drink is stored or
prepared, or in which utensils are washed, shall be smooth and have such
construction as to be easily cleaned, and shall be kept clean and in good
repair. If floor drains are used, the floor shall be graded to the drain and
such drain shall be provided with proper traps so constructed as to minimize
clogging. All floors shall be kept free and clean from litter. Dustless methods
of floor cleaning shall be used, or dust-arresting sweeping compounds and
pushbrooms shall be employed; and all except emergency floor cleaning shall be
done during those periods when the least amount of food and drink is exposed.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings. Walls and ceilings of all rooms in which food
or drink is prepared or stored shall be painted or finished in light color, and
shall be refinished as often as necessary in a manner approved by the Health
Inspector. Nothing in this division (B)(3) shall prohibit the use of tiled or
varnished wood walls. The walls of all kitchens, sculleries and other rooms
where food is stored, prepared or mixed shall have a smooth, washable surface
up to the level reached by splash or spray from cooking, dishwashing or other
equipment used in the operation of such establishments. Walls shall have a cove
base at the floor.
      (4)   Screened doors and windows. When flies and other insects are
prevalent, all openings to the outer air shall be effectively screened with not
less than 16-mesh wire or plastic cloth. All doors shall be self-closing and
screen doors to the outer air shall open outward or fans of sufficient power to
prevent the entrance of flies and other flying insects shall be in use at all
otherwise ineffectively protected openings. Windows and door screens shall be
tight-fitting and free of holes; this shall include screens for skylights and
transoms.
      (5)   Lighting. Artificial light sources shall be provided which furnish
20 foot-candles on all working surfaces in the room in which food or drink is
prepared or in which utensils are washed, as measured by a suitable light
meter, and shall be in use, except when equivalent natural light is present.
This intensity of light does not apply to the dining room. Storage rooms shall
be considered to be sufficiently well lighted if approximately four foot-
candles are provided at a distance of 30 inches from the floor.
      (6)   Ventilation. All rooms in which food or drink is stored, prepared
or served, or in which utensils are washed, shall be adequately ventilated so
as to be reasonably free of disagreeable odors and condensation. Ventilation
equipment supplementary to windows and doors, such as adequate exhaust fans or
stove hoods, shall be provided if necessary. This requirement shall not apply
to cold storage rooms.
      (7)   Toilet and lavatory facilities. Adequate and convenient washing and
toilet facilities shall be provided for employees and customers in all
restaurant establishments, and the location of the same with reference to their
proximity to the place where the business of the establishment is carried on,
and to the place where foods are kept, stored or served shall be subject to the
approval of the Health Inspector.
         (a)   1.   In all such places where foods are dispensed for
consumption on the premises, such facilities shall include hot, running water
and a sign shall be placed by the licensee in compartments containing any
urinal or water closet directing employees to wash their hands before returning
to work after visiting such compartments or using such toilet facilities. Such
sign shall be of a permanent nature, printed, engraved or stamped on
waterproof, non-fragile material, and shall be printed in letters not less than
one inch in height. A sign shall be posted in each water closet compartment,
kitchen or employee’s locker room reading as follows:
 
No person who is affected with any disease in a communicable form or is a
carrier of such disease, or who has a gastrointestinal disturbance, sore throat
or a discharging or infected wound, sore or lesion shall handle food, drink,
utensils or equipment.
 
            2.   Toilet rooms shall be so lighted as to yield at least ten
foot-candles of tight by standard illuminometer test at a height 30 inches
above the floor.
         (b)   In establishments which may be hereafter constructed where food
or drink is served, there shall be an intervening room or vestibule between any
toilet room and any room in which food or drink is prepared, served or stored,
or where any food utensils are handled or stored. This intervening room or
vestibule shall be equipped with tight-fitting, self-closing doors, and shall
be of such dimensions as to prevent both doors being opened simultaneously by
the same person. Toilet room doors shall be equipped with self-closing devices.
         (c)   Toilet rooms and fixtures shall be kept clean and in good repair
and free from flies.
         (d)   Adequate and convenient hand-washing facilities shall be
provided and shall be kept clean. Hot and cold running water and individual
approved sanitary towels or efficiently operated blower shall be provided. The
use of a common towel is prohibited. No employee shall resume work after using
a toilet room without first washing his or her hands. Sinks used for the
washing of dishes or equipment shall not be used for hand-washing. Soap shall
be provided at all hand-washing sinks.
      (8)   Kitchen. The kitchen in all restaurant establishments shall have
adequate light and ventilation and the air flow shall always be from the dining
room through the kitchen. The discharge from kitchen fans shall always be
through a duct to a point above the roof line to protect the occupants of the
building in which the establishment is located or of adjoining buildings from
nuisance. Ranges, refrigerators and other bulky equipment shall be so arranged
as not to obstruct the light and ventilation, and tables for clean and dirty
dishes and food shall be so arranged that the dirty dishes will be as far
removed from the food rack and clean dishes as may be possible. Ranges shall be
hooded so that the cooking odors may be effectively carried off by a stack, an
exhaust fan or a skylight immediately above. The walls and ceilings shall be in
good repair and easily cleaned and the floors and walls should be proofed
against rats and vermin. Ranges, steam tables, shelves, racks, blocks, tables
or other machinery or furniture used in mixing, cutting, grinding, cooking or
otherwise preparing the foods for service shall be of such material and
construction that they may be kept scrupulously clean at all times.
      (9)   Utensils and equipment.
         (a)   Construction.
            1.   All multi-use utensils, all show and display cases or windows,
counters, shelves, tables, refrigerating equipment, sink and other equipment
used in connection with the operation of such establishment shall be so
constructed and located as to be easily cleaned and shall be kept in good
repair. Utensils made of or plated with cadmium or lead shall not be used,
however, solder containing lead may be used for jointing.
            2.   All surfaces of utensils coming in contact with food or drink
shall be of smooth construction, shall be made of not readily corrodible
material and shall be free of breaks, corrosion, open seams, cracks or chipped
surfaces. This requirement precludes the use of any type of equipment so
designed as to permit food or drink to come in contact with V-type threaded
surfaces. The point between the moving and stationary surfaces of food
equipment shall be close fitting. All surfaces of equipment and utensils with
which food or drink comes in contact shall be easily accessible for cleaning.
Tanks, kettles, large containers and other equipment used for the storage or
preparation of liquid or semi-liquid food shall be self-draining. All piping
used for the conveyance of food shall be so constructed as to be easily
dismounted for cleaning, and all surfaces of equipment used for the
preparation, storage or conservation of food and drink shall be accessible to
sight or touch for the purpose of cleaning. No new mechanical equipment
designed to meet the requirements of this subchapter or equipment having valves
or pipes shall be installed unless the same or complete drawings thereof shall
have been submitted to the Health Inspector for approval prior to installation.
         (b)   Cleaning and bactericidal treatment.
            1.   All equipment including display cases, counters, shelves,
tables, meat blocks, refrigerators, stoves and hoods shall be kept clean and
free from dust, dirt, insects and other contaminating material.
            2.   All tablecloths, napkins and cloths used by waiters, chefs and
other employees shall be clean.
            3.   Single-service articles such as paper cups, plates, straws and
milk bottle caps shall be used once only.
            4.   All multi-service eating and drinking utensils shall be
thoroughly cleaned after each usage, and all multi-use utensils used in the
preparation or serving of food and drink shall be thoroughly cleaned
immediately following the day’s operation in such manner as to be clean to the
sight and touch. A suitable detergent shall be used. The cleaning shall be
accomplished by the use of warm water, 110°F to 120°F, containing an adequate
amount of an effective soap or detergent to remove grease and solids. The soapy
wash water shall be changed at sufficiently frequent intervals to keep it
reasonably clean. In machine washing, dishes should be stacked in the racks or
trays so as to avoid overcrowding and so as to permit the wash and rinse waters
to reach all surfaces of each article.
            5.   After cleaning, all utensils shall be effectively subjected to
one or more of the following or other equivalent bactericidal processes:
               a.   i.   Immersion for at least two minutes in clean, hot water
at a temperature of at least 170°F or for one-half minute in boiling water.
Unless actually boiling water is used, a thermometer shall be available
convenient to the vat. The pouring of scalding water over washed utensils shall
not be accepted as satisfactory compliance.
                  ii.   Wherever practicable, bactericidal treatment shall be
obtained through the use of hot water in the manner above described. For this
method of bactericidal treatment, two adjacent deep sinks shall be provided and
fitted with a porcelain, metal or other impervious drainboard. After washing in
the first sink, the glasses, dishes and the like should be placed in metal
baskets and immersed in the hot water in the second sink for the required
period of time. Baskets may be lined with wooden strips to prevent marking of
the chinaware. Upon removal from the hot water, they should remain in the
baskets until dry and then be stored in such manner as not to become
contaminated before again being used.
                  iii.   Where hot water is used for bactericidal treatment,
there shall be provided a hot water heater (preferably controlled by a
thermostat) capable of maintaining a water temperature of at least 170°F in the
vat at all times during work hours, and water at such temperature shall be
available at all times while utensils are being washed and given bactericidal
treatment. The heating device may be integral with the immersion vat. Provision
should be made for compensating for heat loss to the utensils, especially when
large numbers are submerged at any time.
                  iv.   Equipment that is too large to immerse may be treated:
                     (A)   With live steam from a hose, in the case of
equipment in which steam can be confined;
                     (B)   By boiling water rinse; or
                     (C)   By spraying or swabbing with chlorine solution of at
least 50 parts per 1,000,000 strength.
               b.   i.   Immersion for at least two minutes in a lukewarm
chlorine bath containing at least 50 parts per 1,000,000 of available chlorine.
The bath should be made up at a strength of 100 parts per 1,000,000 or more and
shall not be used after its strength has been reduced to 50 parts per
1,000,000.
                  ii.   A test kit or test papers for checking concentration of
the chlorine solution shall be provided for use of the employees.
                  iii.   Where chlorine or other chemical treatment is used, a
three-compartment vat shall be required, the first compartment to be used for
washing, the second for plain rinsing and the third for chlorine or other
chemical immersion; provided that, for existing installations, the second or
rinsing compartment may be omitted if a satisfactory rinsing or spraying device
is substituted. The first basket of utensils will remain in the chlorine bath
for at least two minutes while the second basket is in the plain rinse and the
third basket is being washed. Upon removal from the chlorine bath, the utensils
may be rinsed in safe running water if desired and allowed to dry either in the
basket or inverted on a drain shelf or tray.
                  iv.   Silver and silver-plated tableware should not be
treated with chlorine for silver chlorides are formed which blacken the silver.
               c.   Other chemical bactericides shall be applied in a manner
similar to that of chlorine in division (B)(9)(b)5.b.ii. above.
            6.   a.   In dishwashing machines the washing period shall be at
least 40 seconds with the wash water temperature 120°F to 140°F and the rinse
period shall be at least 20 seconds with the rinse water temperature at 170°F
or higher.
               b.   Dishwashing machines must be kept clean. The pumps and the
wash and rinse sprays or jets, if any, should be so designed that a forceful
stream of water will reach all of the utensils when they are properly racked.
Periodic inspection and cleaning of wash and rinse sprays are essential to
continue satisfactory operation, and these parts of the machine should
therefore be readily accessible for inspection and cleaning. The wash tank
water should be changed during operation as often as is found necessary to keep
it reasonably clean. An effective concentration of detergent should be
maintained at all times.
               c.   New dishwashing machines should be provided with properly
operating automatic detergent dispensers, thermostat control of the temperature
of the wash water as well as that of the rinse water, and thermometers in both
the wash and rinse water lines and in such a location as to be readily visible.
Adequate hot water heating and storage facilities are essential. These
specifications are not intended to be mandatory, but to serve as a guide.
            7.   Drying cloths, if used, shall be clean and shall be used for
no other purpose. It is recommended that whenever possible utensils be
permitted to drain dry without the use of drying cloths.
            8.   No article, polish or other substance containing any cyanide
preparation or other poisonous material shall be used for the cleaning or
polishing of utensils.
         (c)   Storage and handling.
            1.   All containers and utensils shall be stored above the floor in
a clean, dry place protected from flies, splash, dust, overhead leakage,
condensation and other contamination. Wherever practicable, containers and
utensils shall be covered or inverted.
            2.   Drain racks, trays and shelves shall be made of not readily
corrodible material and shall be kept clean.
            3.   Containers and utensils shall not be handled by the surfaces
which come in contact with food or drink. Fingers should not touch the inside
surfaces of glasses, cups, dishes and the like, nor the bowls of spoons, the
tines of forks or the blades of knives.
            4.   Paper cups, plates, straws, spoons, forks and other single-
service containers and utensils shall be purchased in sanitary cartons and
stored therein in a clean, dry place until used, and after removal from the
cartons, these articles shall be handled in a sanitary manner. Laundered cloths
and napkins shall be stored in a clean place until used.
            5.   Spoons, spatulas, dippers, scoops and the like used for
dispensing frozen desserts shall be, when not in use, kept either in water
maintained at 170°F or in safe, running water.
      (10)   Water supply. Continuous, running hot and cold water under
pressure shall be easily accessible to all rooms in which food is prepared or
utensils are washed, and the water supply shall be of a safe, sanitary quality
and ample in quantity for all cleaning purposes.
      (11)   Waste disposal.
         (a)   Every person owning or controlling any restaurant establishment
shall cause all offal, table refuse, shells and animal or vegetable matter,
commonly known and described as garbage to be placed in proper metallic cans
which shall be practically air- and water-tight and easily washable and which
should be covered with close-fitting lids at all times, except when opened for
deposit or removal of garbage, and shall cause all such substances deposited in
such cans or receptacles to be removed daily from his or her premises and to be
disposed of either by burning in a properly constructed crematory which shall
have been approved by the Health Inspector or by dumping the same at any
dumping ground or place where garbage is dumped or disposed of by the village.
The removal and disposition of such substances shall be done by such person at
his or her own expense solely and in accordance with the provisions of village
ordinances and the directions or rules of the Health Inspector relating to the
disposition and removal of such substances.
         (b)   All garbage receptacles shall be washed when empty and if
necessary, treated with a disinfectant.
      (12)   Refrigeration.
         (a)   All readily perishable food or drink shall be kept at or below
50°F, except when being prepared or served. This shall include all custard-
filled and cream-filled pastries, milk and milk products, egg products, meat,
fish, shellfish, gravy, poultry stuffing, sauces, dressings and salads
containing meat, fish, eggs or milk or milk products. Raw meats should be
stored at or below 40°F.
         (b)   All ice shall be of safe, sanitary quality and stored and
handled in such a manner as to prevent contamination. Water used to wash ice
shall comply with the safety standards hereof.
         (c)   To prevent contamination of the refrigerator contents by
possible sewage backflow, all wastewater from refrigeration equipment shall
drain into an open sink or drain, properly trapped and sewer connected;
provided that, where sewer connections are not available, clean, adequate,
water-tight drip pans may be used, or the drainage disposed of in an approved
manner.
      (13)   Wholesomeness of food and drink. It shall be unlawful for any
person to use in any restaurant establishment, or to bring into or keep in the
same with the intention of selling, any food, condiment, confection or drink
which is unclean, unwholesome, tainted, putrid, decayed, adulterated, poisoned,
infected or in any other manner rendered unsafe or unwholesome for human food.
For the purposes of this subchapter, such food products shall be deemed
unwholesome for human food if the same have been contaminated by flies or other
insects, vermin, dust, dirt or other foreign contamination; if they contain any
poisonous or deleterious or injurious ingredients in kind and quantities so as
to render such articles injurious or detrimental to health; or if they contain
the whole or part of any uninspected and unpassed meat or meat-food products;
or if such articles are or have been submerged in brine or other solutions
which are unclean, sour, putrid, spoiled or contaminated.
         (a)   Custard-filled products. All custard-filled and custard cream-
filled pastries shall be rebaked after filling at an oven temperature of at
least 425°F for at least 20 minutes and cooled to 50°F or less within one hour
thereafter, or the filling shall be heated before the pastry shells are filled
so that every particle of the custard or custard-cream mix is held at a
temperature of at least 190°F for at least ten minutes and cooled either before
or after filling the pastry shells to 50°F or less within one hour after
heating, and shall be maintained at that temperature until served or sold.
         (b)   Milk products.
            1.   All milk, fluid milk products, ice cream, frozen custard,
sherbet, ices and similar frozen desserts served shall be obtained from sources
approved by the Health Inspector. Only Grade A pasteurized milk and milk
products shall be used.
            2.   In the case of milk drinks prepared, served or sold, the milk
used shall include the entire contents of the original container or shall be
from an approved bulk dispenser. All milk drinks shall be mixed in a sanitary
manner.
            3.   All milk and fluid milk products shall be served in the
individual, original containers in which they were received from the
distributor, or from a bulk container equipped with an approved dispensing
device complying with the following specifications.
               a.   It shall comply with the requirements of division (B)(11)
above pertaining to the construction of utensils and equipment.
               b.   No surfaces with which milk or milk products come in
contact, except the delivery office, while the dispenser is in use, shall be
accessible to manual contact, droplet infection, dust or flies.
               c.   All parts of the dispenser with which milk comes in
contact, including any measuring device, shall be cleaned and subjected to a
bactericidal treatment at the milk plant where filled and not at the restaurant
establishment.
               d.   The dispenser shall be filled and sealed with two seals at
the milk plant in such a manner as to make it impossible to withdraw any of its
contents without breaking one seal and impossible to replace any of its
contents without breaking the other.
               e.   The dispensing device shall be so constructed as to
automatically mix the milk and cream thoroughly with each dispensing operation,
except in the case of milk products which remain homogeneous without mixing.
All milk and milk products and cream served from dispensers shall be kept at a
temperature of 50°F or less until served. In the enforcement of this
requirement, the Health Inspector may make an exception in the case of cream
served with coffee, cereals and the like. The Health Inspector may permit the
serving of cream from the original container or from a dispenser which complies
with divisions (B)(13)(b)3.a. and (B)(13)(b)3.b. above and which can be filled
in a sanitary manner, kept clean and frequently subjected to bactericidal
treatment complying with the requirements of division (B)(12) above.
         (c)   Shellfish. Oysters, clams and mussels shall be obtained from a
source approved by the U.S. Public Health Service. Shucked shellfish shall be
kept, until sold, served or used, in the containers in which they were placed
in the shucking plant.
         (d)   Pork. All food products which, in whole or in part, shall
contain raw pork shall be deemed unwholesome if they have not been thoroughly
cooked or otherwise treated by the method approved by the Health Inspector to
ensure the destruction of trichinae.
      (14)   Storage, display and serving of food and drink.
         (a)   All food and drink shall be stored and displayed in such a
manner as to be protected from dust, flies, vermin, unnecessary handling,
droplet infection, overhead leakage and condensation, sewage backflow and other
contamination. Evidence of the presence of rodents, roaches, ants or other
vermin shall be considered a violation of this division (B)(14)(a). Food or
drink shall not be stored or prepared beneath overhead sewer or drain pipes
unless such pipes are provided with suitable means to carry off possible
leakage or condensation. Food or drink shall not be stored directly on floors
which are subject to flooding from sewage backflow. The pouring lips of bottles
containing milk or other beverages in non-leakproof containers shall not be
submerged in water for cooling.
         (b)   All food and drink shall be handled, prepared and served in such
a manner as to minimize the opportunities for contamination. Serving of sliced
butter and cracked ice shall not be by direct contact with fingers or hands and
manual contact with all food or drink shall be avoided insofar as possible.
         (c)   All unwrapped or unenclosed food and drink on display shall be
protected by glass or otherwise from public handling or other contamination;
except that, approved hand opening for self- service may be permitted on
counter fronts. Breads, pies, cakes or other like articles of food shall not be
carried or transported through any public or private way unless such articles
of food are carried or transported in a fly-proof and dust-proof receptacle.
         (d)   No animals or fowl shall be kept or allowed in any room in which
food or drink is prepared or stored.
         (e)   All enclosed spaces within double walls, between ceilings and
floors, beneath floors and in fixtures and equipment which provide harborage
and potential breeding places for rodents shall be eliminated by the removal of
the sheeting or interior walls which form the enclosed spaces, or all exposed
edges of such walls, floors and sheetings shall be protected against gnawing by
rats by the installation of approved rat-proof material; and all openings in
walls, floors and ceilings through which pipes, electric cables and other
conduits pass shall be properly sealed with snuggly-fitting collars of metal or
other approved rat-proof material securely fastened in place and so maintained;
and propagation of rats and invasion and infestation of the premises by them
shall be permanently prevented.
         (f)   All supplementary means necessary for the elimination of flies,
roaches and rodents shall be employed. For the elimination of flies, fly
repellent fans, flypaper, fly traps or fly-killing sprays or powders may be
used. All poisonous compounds used in the extermination of rodents or insects
shall be so colored as to be easily identified; however, poisonous substances
should be used with extreme caution and compounds harmless to humans should be
substituted wherever possible. Poisonous compounds shall not be stored in
kitchens or food preparation rooms.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-8) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.048 DISEASED EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person who is affected with any disease in a
communicable form or is a carrier of such disease shall work in any restaurant.
No restaurant shall employ any such person or any persons suspected of being
affected with any disease in a communicable form or of being a carrier of such
disease. If the person in charge of any restaurant suspects that any employee
has contracted any disease in a communicable form or has become a carrier of
such disease, he or she shall notify the Health Inspector immediately.
   (B)   Infection suspected; procedure. When suspicion arises as to
probability of transmission of infection from any restaurant employee, the
Health Inspector is authorized to require the following measures:
      (1)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all restaurants;
      (2)   The immediate closing of the restaurant concerned until no further
danger of diseased outbreak exists, in the opinion of the Health Inspector; and
      (3)   Adequate medical examination of the employee and of his or her
associates with such laboratory examinations as may be deemed necessary under
the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-9) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.049 ICE CREAM VENDORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, dispense
or distribute for profit in any manner, any ice cream or other frozen
confections produced for human consumption upon a public highway or right-of-
way in the village, except or unless such selling, dispensing or distributing
shall be made from a non-moving vehicle which has been licensed by the village
to sell from a designated or specific site. As used herein, the word NON-MOVING
VEHICLE shall not include a vehicle which uses wheels for the sole purpose of
reaching or moving to the site from which selling, dispensing and distributing
is authorized.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-10) (Ord. 93-216, passed 7-20-1993) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.050 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; REINSTATEMENT.
   (A)   Any license issued may be temporarily suspended by the Health
Inspector upon the violation by the holder of any of the terms of this
subchapter, or revoked, after an opportunity for a hearing by the Health
Inspector, upon serious or repeated violation.
   (B)   Any restaurant, the permit of which has been suspended, may at any
time make application for the reinstatement of the permit. Within one week
after the receipt of a satisfactory application, accompanied by a statement
signed by the applicant to the effect that the violated provision or provisions
of this subchapter have been conformed with, the Health Inspector shall make a
reinspection and, thereafter, as many additional reinspections as he or she may
deem necessary to assure himself or herself that the applicant is again
complying with all requirements and, in case the finding indicates compliance,
shall reinstate the permit.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-11)
§ 120.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If, on completion of the 30-day period described in §
120.025 of this chapter, the Health Inspector determines that the retailer has
willfully violated §§
120.020 through
120.026 of this chapter, after providing notice and an opportunity for a
hearing before the Health Inspector with respect to the violation, the Health
Inspector may fine the retailer in an amount not more than $1,000 for each
violation.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of §§
120.040 through
120.050 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $500 for each offense and may
be committed to the county jail or to any place provided by ordinance for the
incarceration of offenders until the fine, penalty and cost are fully paid. No
imprisonment, however, shall exceed six months for any offense. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-7A-12)
(Ord. 93-216, passed 7-20-1993; Ord. 07-425, passed 11-19-2007)
CHAPTER 121: HEALTH CARE FACILITIES AND SERVICES
Section
Nursing, Convalescent and Senior Citizen Homes
   
121.001   Definition
   
121.002   License required; term; revocation
   
121.003   License application
   
121.004   License fee
   
121.005   Compliance with village and state rules and regulations
Ambulances and Mobile Intensive Care Units
   
121.020   License required
   
121.021   Investigation of license applicant
   
121.022   Insurance requirements; suits
   
121.023   Standards for equipment and personnel
   
121.024   Consent of sick or injured person
   
121.025   Inspections
NURSING, CONVALESCENT AND SENIOR CITIZEN HOMES
§ 121.001 DEFINITION.
   A NURSING, CONVALESCENT OR SENIOR CITIZEN HOME shall mean a building or
buildings used for the lodging, boarding or nursing care on a 24-hour basis of
four or more infants or children, convalescents or aged persons, but shall not
include hospitals and mental or correctional institutions.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-1)
§ 121.002 LICENSE REQUIRED; TERM; REVOCATION.
   (A)   No nursing, convalescent or senior citizen homes, as defined in §
121.001 of this chapter, shall be operated, except under a license from the
village.
   (B)   Such license shall expire on April 30 of each year and shall be
revocable for cause.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-2) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 121.003 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for such license shall conform to the general provisions
relating to applications for licenses and shall state:
   (A)   The location or proposed location of the home;
   (B)   The purpose for which it is to be opened, conducted, maintained or
operated;
   (C)   The accommodations for the residents thereof;
   (D)   The nature and kind of care, instruction or benefits given or proposed
to be given therein;
   (E)   The name and address of the officials, or board of officials,
conducting, managing, maintaining or operating said home;
   (F)   The name of the superintendent or person in charge of said home; and
   (G)   The name and address of the chief physician, surgeon or attending
physician.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-3)
§ 121.004 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for such business shall be established by ordinance
as set forth in the license fee schedule of §
110.018(A) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-4)
§ 121.005 COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE AND STATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Building regulations. Nursing, convalescent or senior citizen homes
shall be constructed so as to conform to the Building Code of the village; and
the minimum standards set forth in the most current version of the Nursing Home
Care Act (210 ILCS 45) and the state’s Department of Public Health’s (IDPH)
Minimum Standards for Long-Term Care Facilities, being 77 Ill. Adm. Code §
300.110 et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
   (B)   Minimum standards of care. Each nursing, convalescent or senior
citizen home operated in the village shall furnish such care and services for
its occupants as shall conform and meet the standards and requirements set
forth in the most current version of the Nursing Home Care Act (210 ILCS 45)
and the state’s Department of Public Health’s (IDPH) Minimum Standards for
Long-Term Care Facilities, being 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 300.110 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended.
   (C)   Copies. Three copies of said rules and regulations were filed in the
office of the Village Clerk for public inspection in accordance with the
statutes of the state in such case made and provided.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-5) (Ord. 86-114, passed 4-15-1986) Penalty, see §
10.999
AMBULANCES AND MOBILE INTENSIVE CARE UNITS
§ 121.020 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or maintain any ambulance or mobile intensive care
unit or ambulance service or mobile intensive care unit service without first
obtaining a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-1) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 121.021 INVESTIGATION OF LICENSE APPLICANT.
   In case the license applicant is, at the time of such application, operating
or maintaining an ambulance or mobile intensive care unit, the village’s Health
Inspector shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether or not
the applicant has complied with all applicable laws relating to health,
sanitation and safety.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-2)
§ 121.022 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS; SUITS.
   (A)   Insurance required.
      (1)   Every ambulance or mobile intensive care unit owner shall carry
public liability and property damage insurance and worker’s compensation
insurance for his or her employees with solvent and responsible insurers
authorized to transact such insurance business in the state and qualified to
assume the risks for amounts hereinafter set forth to secure payment of any
loss or damage resulting from any occurrence arising out of or caused by the
operation or use of any of the ambulance or mobile intensive care units
belonging to the licensee.
      (2)   The public liability insurance policy or contract may cover one or
more vehicles, but each ambulance or mobile intensive care unit shall be
insured for the sum of at least $250,000 for bodily injury or death to one
person, $500,000 for bodily injury or death in one occurrence and for the sum
of $100,000 for property damage. Every insurance policy or contract for such
insurance shall provide for the payment and satisfaction of any final judgment
rendered against the owner or any person driving any insured vehicle.
   (B)   Suit for claims. Suit may be brought in any court of competent
jurisdiction upon such policy or contract by any person having claims arising
from the operation or use of ambulances or mobile intensive care units. It
shall contain a description of each ambulance or mobile intensive care vehicle
insured, manufacturer’s name and serial number and the ambulance or mobile
intensive care unit license number.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-3) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 121.023 STANDARDS FOR EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Generally. Each ambulance or mobile intensive care unit shall, at all
times, when in use as such:
      (1)   Be suitable for the transportation of patients from the standpoint
of health, sanitation and safety;
      (2)   Be maintained in suitable premises;
      (3)   Contain equipment conforming with the standards, requirements and
regulations provided for herein, which equipment shall be in proper and good
condition for such use; and
      (4)   Comply with all applicable statutes and ordinances relating to
health, sanitation and safety.
   (B)   Vehicles.
      (1)   Without any limitation on the foregoing provisions, each vehicle
shall comply with the requirements of the state’s Department of Transportation,
both as to design and equipment.
      (2)   Radio and communications equipment must be approved and licensed by
the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and all hospital equipment must be
approved by the FCC and the state’s Department of Public Health.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-4) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 121.024 CONSENT OF SICK OR INJURED PERSON.
   No physically sick or injured person shall be conveyed against his or her
will by any private ambulance service or mobile intensive care service from the
place where he or she was overcome by sickness or from the scene of an
accident, nor having been placed in an ambulance or mobile intensive care unit,
shall he or she be conveyed to a place to which he or she is unwilling to go;
provided, however, that, if such sick or injured person is unable to give any
direction in his or her own behalf and there is no immediate relative present
to direct where he or she shall be taken, such sick or injured person shall be
conveyed to the nearest emergency medical facility; provided, further, that,
the requirement contained herein regarding transportation to the nearest
medical facility shall not apply when the ambulance or mobile intensive care
unit attendants are directed by a licensed physician, registered nurse or other
properly authorized representative of a hospital participating in the South
Cook County Mobile Intensive Care System, to transport the sick or injured
person to an emergency medical facility other than the nearest such facility.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-5) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 121.025 INSPECTIONS.
   No vehicle shall be licensed as an ambulance or mobile intensive care unit
until it has been inspected under the direction of the village’s Health
Inspector and found to be in safe operating condition. Further, the village’s
Health Inspector shall cause an inspection of the premises and vehicle or
vehicles named and described in the license application for the purpose of
determining the fitness and suitability of the premises and vehicle or vehicles
for such business from the standpoint of health, sanitation and safety, and
that the equipment in such vehicles complies with all the requirements set out
in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-6) (Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
CHAPTER 122: WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Section
General Provisions
   
122.001   Inspection; certificate of accuracy
   
122.002   Inspection fees; limitation
   
122.003   Incorrect measures
   
122.004   Condemned instruments
   
122.005   Register of instruments
   
122.006   Peddlers’ scales
   
122.007   Weighing of feed
   
122.008   Stone, sand and gravel
   
122.009   Scales required when
   
122.010   Load lots
   
122.011   Certificate of weight; contents
   
122.012   Verification of weight
   
122.013   Delivery ticket; required; contents
   
122.014   Weighing memorandum requirements
   
122.015   Net weight designated
   
122.016   Weighmaster weighing own commodities
   
122.017   Obstruction after re-weighing
   
122.018   False certificate and delivery tickets
   
122.019   Illegal or false weights and measures
   
122.020   Deceptive practices
   
122.021   Labeling lead-based or heavy-metal-based paints
   
122.022   Authority; rules and regulations
   
122.023   Enforcement
Fuels and Liquids
   
122.035   Pumps and liquid measuring devices
   
122.036   Measurement of fuel oil
   
122.037   Distillate fuels; delivery requirements and the like
   
122.038   New equipment
   
122.039   Standard avoirdupois weight
   
122.040   Solid fuel
Food Items
   
122.055   Ice
   
122.056   Food items to be sold by net weight; exceptions
   
122.057   Weight
   
122.058   Food packaging; weight and price marking
   
122.059   Transparent wrapping
   
122.060   USDA grade mark required on meat or poultry
   
122.061   Genetically engineered food
   
122.062   Fresh berries and small fruits
   
122.063   Net quantity on packages required
   
122.064   Repackaging fruit and vegetables
   
122.065   Milk and cream in bottles
   
122.066   Bread loaves
   
122.067   Biscuits or rolls
Pricing
   
122.080   Definitions
   
122.081   Price marking and display
   
122.082   Sales; statement of duration
   
122.083   Reference price; disclosure; identical, comparable articles
   
122.084   Lowered prices due to unusual circumstances
   
122.085   Wholesale or factory prices
   
122.086   Commodity unit price standards
   
122.087   Unit price standards; exceptions
 
   
122.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 122.001 INSPECTION; CERTIFICATE OF ACCURACY.
   (A)   Every person using weights, measures, scale beams, patent balances,
steelyards or any instrument in weighing or measuring any article intended to
be purchased or sold in the village or any article weighed or measured for
shipping or receiving purposes, or in weighing or measuring any person or
animal for hire or reward, shall cause the same to be inspected and sealed by
the Inspector of Weights and Measures and shall obtain a certificate of
accuracy in the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall refuse to exhibit any weight, measure, scale beam,
patent balance, steelyard or other instrument to the Inspector of Weights and
Measures for the purpose of being so inspected and examined.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.002 INSPECTION FEES; LIMITATION.
   (A)   The Director of the Department of Revenue shall demand and receive for
the use of the city, before the delivery of certificates provided for by this
chapter, the following fees:
For inspecting and sealing scales of the capacity of 24,000 pounds and    $75
upwards, each
For inspecting and sealing scales of the capacity of 6,000 pounds up to   $15
24,000 pounds, each
For inspecting and sealing scales of the capacity of 2,500 pounds up to   $10
6,000 pounds, each
For inspecting and sealing scales of a capacity up to 2,500 pounds, each  $5
For inspecting and sealing hopper scales of the capacity of 0 to 500      $6
pounds, each
For inspecting and sealing hopper scales of the capacity of 501 pounds to $14
2,000 pounds, each
For inspecting and sealing hopper scales of the capacity of 2,001 pounds  $34
to 10,000 pounds, each
For inspecting and sealing hopper scales of the capacity of 10,001 pounds $75
and upwards, each
For inspecting and sealing 2-bushel, 1-bushel and 1/2-bushel measures,    $1.50
each
For inspecting and sealing any other dry measure, each                    $1.50
For inspecting and sealing every automatic weighing machine or other      $5
similar device of a capacity of less than 3 tons used for weighing, each
For inspecting and sealing liquid measures of a capacity up to and        $2
including 5 gallons, each
For inspecting and sealing liquid measures of a capacity over 5 gallons,  $5
for each 5-gallon capacity or part thereof
For inspecting and sealing any automatic machine used for measuring       $5
liquids, each unit
For inspecting and sealing yard measures, each                            $2
For inspecting and sealing any linear measure for each 3 feet             $2
For inspecting and sealing any tape line exceeding 50 feet in length,     $5
each
For inspecting and sealing any automatic machine used for lineal          $5
measuring, each
For inspecting and sealing any automatic pump used for measuring          $7
gasoline, oils and the like, each
For measuring a quantity of coal or wood and issuing a certificate of     $14
approximate measure or weight of same
For weighing or measuring any other commodity and issuing a certificate   $20
of weight or measure, at the rate per hour of
For inspecting and sealing gasoline and fuel oil tank trucks, wagons or   $34
trailers of a capacity of 1,000 gallons or less, each
For inspecting and sealing gasoline and fuel oil tank trucks, wagons or
trailers of a capacity of over 1,000 gallons, for each 500-gallon         $14
capacity or part thereof
For inspecting and sealing any meter used for measuring gasoline, oils    $34
and the like, each
 
   (B)   Limitations on fees used in weighing and measuring shall be found to
be not conformable to the said standards. It shall not be lawful for the said
Inspector to make charges for inspecting and examining weights, measures, scale
beams, patent balances, steelyards or other instruments used for weighing, more
than once in each year (except charges for inspecting and examining track
scales and scales of a capacity of three tons and upwards, and automatic; or
mechanical pumps or liquid-measuring, devices, which shall not be made more
than once in every six months), unless such weights, measures, scale beams,
patent balances, steelyards or other instruments
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.003 INCORRECT MEASURES.
   (A)   If any person shall use, maintain or operate in the city in weighing
or measuring as aforesaid, any weight, measure, scale beam, patent balance,
steelyard or other instrument which shall not be conformable to the standard of
the state, or shall use in weighing, as aforesaid, any scale beam, patent
balance, steelyard or other instrument which shall be out of order or
incorrect, or which shall not balance, he or she shall be fined for every such
offense.
   (B)   In every case where the said Inspector may, at the request of the
owner or person in possession or control of any scale, weight or measure,
employ labor or material in making such scale, weight or measure accurate, he
or she shall charge and receive from such owner or person, for the use of the
village a just and reasonable compensation for such labor and material.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.004 CONDEMNED INSTRUMENTS.
   Any weight, measure, scale, beam, patent balances, steelyards or other
instrument used for weighing that does not conform to the standards of this
state shall be marked “condemned” and the owner thereof shall, within ten days
thereafter, have the same properly adjusted and sealed, or be subject to a
penalty and the Department may at any time after the expiration of the time
aforesaid, seize and destroy any and all such condemned weights, measures,
scales, patent balances, steelyards and other instruments used for weighing
found in use.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.005 REGISTER OF INSTRUMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of said Department to make a register of all the
weights, measures, scale beams, patent balances, steelyards or other
instruments used for weighing, inspected and sealed by it in which it shall
state the names of the owners of the same and whether they are conformable to
the standards of the state.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.006 PEDDLERS’ SCALES.
   All itinerant peddlers, hawkers, using scales, balances, weights or measures
shall take the same to the office of the Inspector of Weights and Measures
before and use is made thereof and have the same sealed and adjusted annually;
and any such person failing to comply with the provisions of this section shall
be regarded as having committed a separate and distinct offense each day such
person shall use such scales, balances, weights or measures without having the
same adjusted and sealed as herein before provided.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.007 WEIGHING OF FEED.
   For the purpose of computing the weight of any hay, straw, grain or mill
feed sold and delivered in the village, or sold elsewhere to be delivered
within the village, avoirdupois weight shall be used, and 100 pounds shall be
and constitute a hundredweight, and ten such hundredweight or 2,000 pounds
avoirdupois shall constitute a ton.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.008 STONE, SAND AND GRAVEL.
   Any person engaged in the business of selling crushed stone, bank sand,
torpedo sand or gravel within the village for delivery in the said village,
shall, in the absence of a contract or agreement in writing to the contrary,
sell the same by standard avoirdupois net weight and in no outer way.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.009 SCALES REQUIRED WHEN.
   (A)   Every person selling or offering for sale any service, commodity,
produce or article of merchandise, sold by weight, shall keep and maintain in a
conspicuous place on his or her premises, scales suitable for weighing such
commodity, produce or article of merchandise, and shall, whenever requested by
the buyer and in the buyer’s presence, weigh the commodity, produce or article
of merchandise sold or offered for sale.
   (B)   Wherever meat, poultry or other articles of merchandise sold by weight
and prepared or wrapped in advance of being sold by the retailer, are being
offered for sale, an accurate computing scale of adequate capacity shall be
placed or set no more than 30 feet from the prepackaged display counter or
service area. A prominent and conspicuous sign shall be placed on or adjacent
to the computing scale, such sign shall read “for customer use” in a type size
no less than two inches in height. Where the prepackaged merchandise is marked
with weight expressed in the standard avoirdupois pound and decimal fractions
thereof, a conversion chart showing the correlation between the decimal
fractions and common fractions of the avoirdupois pound, in a type size no less
than 12-point, shall be prominently and conspicuously displayed.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.010 LOAD LOTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every load of solid fuel of more than 1,000 pounds, or of any
other commodity, produce or other article of merchandise sold in load lots by
weight, delivered by vehicle within the village, shall be weighed by a public
weighmaster.
      (2)   A certificate of weight for each such load, issued by such public
weighmaster, shall be delivered by the driver or person in charge of the
vehicle to the purchaser or consignee of such load, or to his, her or their
agent, at the time of the delivery and before any of the commodity, produce or
article of merchandise is removed from the vehicle, or such certificates shall
be delivered to the Inspector of Weights and Measures, or any of the deputies,
upon demand.
   (B)   When delivery is made, in case no person is present to receive such
commodity, produce or other article of merchandise, and if the purchaser or
consignee, or his or their agent, cannot be located, then the certificate of
weight herein before provided for shall be posted conspicuously at the place of
delivery before any of the commodity, produce or article of merchandise is
removed from the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall alter any certificate of weight or attempt to use the
same for any other load than the one for which the same was given, or diminish
the quantity of such load after the weighing and before the sale delivery
thereof.
   (D)   (1)   The weight certificate shall remain at all times on the vehicle
conveying the load until it is delivered by the driver to the purchaser or
posted as provided above at the point of delivery.
      (2)   Ice sold in load lots by weight is exempted from all of the
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.011 CERTIFICATE OF WEIGHT; CONTENTS.
   (A)   The certificate of weight shall show the date of weighing, the gross
weight, the tare and the net weight, the kind and grade of such commodity, the
name and address of the seller and purchaser thereof, the number of the vehicle
(if such vehicle be numbered), the license number of such vehicle and the name
of the person in charge of such vehicle.
   (B)   The certificate of weight for each delivery of solid fuel shall also
show the city of manufacture in the case of coke or manufactured fuel and the
size of the solid fuel in one of the following terms only:
      (1)   Lump or block, the general size of which shall be not less than
four inches in diameter. Egg, the general size of which shall be not less than
two inches in diameter. Range, the general size of which shall be not less than
one and one-half inches in diameter;
      (2)   Nut or stove, the general size of which shall be not less than one
inch in diameter: chestnut, the general size: of which shall be not less than
three-quarters inch in diameter; pea, buckwheat and small nut, the general size
of which shall be not less than three-eighths inch in diameter; and
      (3)   Mine run, which shall be coal as received from the mine without any
variation or sizing. Slack and screening, which shall be such other sizes as
are not heretofore specifically designated.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.012 VERIFICATION OF WEIGHT.
   Any person in charge of a vehicle used for delivering in load lots any
commodity within the village shall, at the request of the Inspector of Weights
and Measures or any of the Inspector deputies, or at the request of the
purchaser thereof at any time after the weighing thereof, produce and deliver
the required certificate of weight for the inspection of the Inspector of
Weights and Measures, Deputy Inspector or the purchaser, and shall upon request
of any such person demanding a verification of weight go to a designated public
scale located in the particular locality where the delivery is to be made or to
any private scale in the particular locality of delivery when the owner thereof
shall consent to such use. The commodity about to be delivered and the vehicle
used for the delivery of the same shall be weighed for the purpose of
ascertaining the gross weight, thereof, and the person in charge of the vehicle
making the delivery shall, after such delivery, return forthwith to the same
scales and there weigh such vehicle for the purpose of verifying the net weight
of such commodity as shown by said certificate of weight; provided, however,
that, if the seller of such commodity or the person in charge of the vehicle
making the delivery requests the privilege of re-weighing such commodity on
another and different scale from that selected by the Inspector of Weights and
Measures, an Inspector Deputy or the purchaser, or upon the scale where the
commodity was originally weighed, said person requesting the verification of
weight shall consent to such re-weighing on some other scale in the particular
locality where such delivery is to be made or upon said scale of original
weighing; and, provided further that, when the person selling or making the
delivery of any load lot of any commodity, produce or article of merchandise
has not as a public weighmaster, weighed such load lot and is not interested
directly or indirectly with the public weighmaster weighing such commodity,
produce or article of merchandise in the operation of such public weighmasters
scale, it shall be the duty of the person in charge of the vehicle used in the
delivery thereof to permit such verification of weight upon condition that the
Inspector of Weights and Measures, or Inspector Deputy, or public weighmaster,
purchaser or consignee making such request shall have kept such load in view
from the location of the scale where such load was originally weighed by the
public weighmaster to the point where such request is made.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.013 DELIVERY TICKET; REQUIRED; CONTENTS.
   (A)   When solid fuel is sold or delivered in lots of less than 1,000 pounds
or any commodity is weighed by a public weighmaster and sold in less than load
lots, the seller shall give a delivery ticket to the purchaser, purchaser’s
agent or the person to whom the delivery is to be made before the delivery of
such commodity, or to the Inspector of Weights and Measures upon, demand.
   (B)   The said delivery ticket shall bear the date of the weighing, the name
and address of the seller, the license number if the seller be a peddler, the
net weight of each kind of commodity to be delivered, the size in the case of
solid fuel and the grade thereof.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.014 WEIGHING MEMORANDUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All railway companies and all persons operating elevators or
warehouses which remain in the village delivery team track yards equipped with
scales shall, upon the delivery by them of any hay, straw, grain or millfeed to
the consignee or to the person having an order from the consignee for the
delivery thereof, where such commodity is removed from such yards in wagon-load
lots or in amounts less than load lots, weigh the same and deliver to the
person in charge of any vehicle furnished, by the consignee, or by the person
having his or her order, a certificate of weight or delivery ticket which shall
comply with all the requirements of this chapter relating thereto, and which
shall show the name or the initials of the railroad company or of the elevator
or warehouse issuing such certificate of weight or delivery ticket, and the
location of the scale upon which such hay, straw, grain or millfeed is weighed.
   (B)   For such weighing and for the issuing of said memoranda, a fee of not
exceeding $0.25 for each load or part of a load so weighed may be charged and
collected.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.015 NET WEIGHT DESIGNATED.
   When any commodity is sold subject to public weighmaster’s weights, the net
weight shown in the weight certificate issued by such public weighmaster shall
be taken to be the true avoirdupois net weight of the same, subject to the
right of re-weighing as herein provided. Net weight, within the meaning of this
chapter, shall be the actual weight of the commodity excluding the weight of
the vehicle, if any, in which it is loaded, and excluding the weight of the
horses and driver of such vehicle or either of them, as the case may be, if
such horses and driver, or either of them, be weighed as of the tare weight.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.016 WEIGHMASTER WEIGHING OWN COMMODITIES.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prevent any person
engaged in the business of selling any commodity which is ordinarily delivered
by vehicle, from becoming a public weighmaster and appointing deputy
weighmasters to weigh the commodity being sold and delivered by such person,
and any weight certificate issued by such person, or the deputies appointed by
the weighmaster, covering commodities sold by such person, shall be of the same
effect as the weight certificate issued by any other public weighmaster.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.017 OBSTRUCTION AFTER RE-WEIGHING.
   Any person, selling and delivering or attempting to deliver any load lot of
any commodity that has been re-weighed on the scale of the public weighmaster
on which it was originally weighed at his or her request, who shall refuse or
fail to allow said load to be delivered to the destination it was originally
billed or sent to, or who shall fail or refuse to have the load, removed from
the vehicle used in the delivery thereof, or who shall hinder or obstruct the
Inspector of Weights and Measures, or any Inspector Deputies, from obtaining
and ascertaining the net weight of the commodity delivered or attempted to be
delivered, shall be fined.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.018 FALSE CERTIFICATE AND DELIVERY TICKETS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall sell and deliver, or attempt to deliver, any
load lot of any commodity sold in load lot by weight and delivered by vehicle
within the village of a quantity less than that called for by the certificate
of weight; nor shall any public weighmaster or deputy provide the driver or
person in charge of the vehicle used in the delivery thereof, or the person
attempting to deliver the same, with a certificate which, does not correctly
state the information required to be given in §
122.011 of this chapter.
      (2)   No driver or person in charge of such delivery shall fail, neglect
or refuse to deliver to the Inspector of weights and measures or any Inspector
Deputies upon demand the aforesaid certificate, before any part of such load is
removed from the vehicle, nor refuse to comply with his, her or their request
to reweigh the same in order that the weights stated in such certificate may be
verified.
   (B)   No person shall request any public weighmaster or any weighmaster
deputies to weigh any commodity falsely or incorrectly, nor shall any person
request a false or incorrect certificate of weight or delivery ticket.
   (C)   No person selling, delivering or attempting to deliver any commodity
in load lots or in amounts less than load lots within the village, shall
provide the person in charge of the conveyance, or the person actually
delivering or attempting to make said delivery, with a false or fraudulent
certificate of weight or delivery ticket nor provide a certificate of weight or
delivery ticket which is not the result of the actual weighing of the commodity
so sold, delivered or attempted to be delivered.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.019 ILLEGAL OR FALSE WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or keep for the purpose of sale,
any commodity quantities or enumerations of less weight or measures than that
represented upon such sale or offer for sale by the vendor or his or her agent
or employee, nor shall any person sell or offer for sale any commodity in any
receptacle having a smaller capacity than is represented at the time of such
offer or sale.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale articles of dry or liquid
measurement in other than the legal type of measured required therefor.
   (C)   No person weighing or measuring any commodity for sale by dry, liquid,
lineal or superficial measurement, or by any unit of enumeration used in
determining or measuring quantity, or by weight, shall falsify the measure or
weight of such commodity by representing the measure or weight of the same to
be either more or less than the true measure of weight thereof.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person performing services upon any
commodity who shall determine the charge for such services according to the
measure or weight of the commodity upon which the services are performed, to
falsify the measure or weight of the same by representing the measure or weight
to be more than the true measure or weight thereof.
   (E)   No person shall deliver to the purchaser or prospective purchaser any
commodity in quantities or enumeration of less weight or measure than that
offered for sale.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.020 DECEPTIVE PRACTICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To act, use or employ any deception, fraud, false pretense, false
promise or misrepresentation, or to conceal, suppress or omit any material fact
with intent that others rely upon such concealment, suppression or omission, in
connection with the sale, for cash or on credit, or advertisement of any
merchandise, whether or not any person has in fact been misled; provided,
however, that, nothing herein contained shall apply to the owner or publisher
of newspapers, magazines, publications or printed matter wherein such
advertisement appears, or to the owner or operator of a radio or television
station which disseminates such, advertisement when the owner, publisher or
operator has no knowledge of the intent, design or purpose of the advertiser;
and, provided further that, nothing herein contained shall apply to any
advertisement which is subject to and complies with the rules and regulations
of any of the statutes administered by the Federal Trade Commission;
      (2)   Representing that merchandise new, if it is deteriorated, altered,
reconditioned, reclaimed, used or secondhand shall be construed as a violation
of this section;
      (3)   Representing that merchandise or services are of a particular
standard, grade or quality, or that merchandise is represented to be of a
particular style or model, if it is not, shall be considered a violation of
this section;
      (4)   Failing to deliver ordered merchandise within a period of 60 days
from the date of order or contract, unless otherwise provided therein, unless
the customer is notified in writing of the reason for the delay and such
merchandise is delivered in less than a total of 90 days, or a refund is
offered within 90 days of the date of the order or contract, shall be
considered a violation of this section;
      (5)   Making false or misleading statements of fact concerning the
reasons for, existence of or amounts of price reductions, or engaging in any
other pricing conduct causing confusion or misunderstanding, shall be
considered a violation of this section;
      (6)   Representing that merchandise or services are those of another,
when in fact they are not, shall be considered a violation of this section;
      (7)   Causing confusion or misunderstanding concerning the source,
sponsorship, approval or certification of merchandise or services shall be
considered a violation of this section;
      (8)   Causing confusion or misunderstanding or false or deceptive
representation concerning affiliation, connection or association with, or
certification by another, shall be considered a violation of this section;
      (9)   Representing that merchandise or services have sponsorship or
approval concerning the source of or certification of merchandise or services
when in fact they do not have such approval or sponsorship, shall be considered
a violation of this section;
      (10)   Failing to state a material fact, if such failure tends to deceive
or mislead, shall be considered a violation of this section;
      (11)   Advertising for sale at a stated price, any items when sufficient
quantities of said advertised items are not readily available to be sold to
purchasers at the advertised price during the effective period of the
advertisement for sale, shall be considered a violation of this section. For
the purposes of this division (A)(11), READILY AVAILABLE ITEMS shall mean
available to the customer in an area of the store normally used to display this
type of merchandise, except in a case where the space available for the items
is limited, a sample of the items may be placed in a prominent location,
accompanied by a prominent written notice clearly stating that the items are in
stock and may be obtained upon request and sufficient quantities shall mean
available in quantities sufficient to meet reasonably expected customer demand
through medium response;
      (12)   Charging a higher amount of tax than the legal rate set forth by
laws and regulations existing at the time of sale shall be considered a
violation of this section;
      (13)   Selling outdated merchandise, unless such merchandise is both
physically separated from merchandise that is not outdated and clearly
designated as outdated shall constitute a violation of this section.
         (a)   OUTDATED MERCHANDISE means merchandise that is offered for sale
beyond the date specified by the manufacturer of the merchandise.
         (b)   Such date may or may not be preceded by, but is not limited to,
such terms as “last sale date”, “use by”, “best if used by” or “expires on”.
      (14)   Selling or offering for sale, or keeping with intention of
selling, infant formula that is outdated, shall constitute a violation of this
section. Outdated formula shall be considered unsafe and unwholesome for human
food.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADVERTISEMENT. The attempt by publication, dissemination, solicitation or
circulation to induce directly or indirectly any person to enter into any
obligation or acquire any title or interest in any merchandise and includes
every word device to disguise any form of business solicitation, by using such
terms as “renewal”, “invoice”, “statement” or “reminder” to create an
impression of existing obligation when there is none, or other language to
mislead any person in relation to any sought-after commercial transaction.
      MERCHANDISE. Any objects, wares, goods, commodities, intangibles, real
estate or services.
      PERSON. Any natural person or his or her legal representative,
partnership, corporation, (domestic and foreign), company, trust, business
entity or association, and any agent, employee, salesperson, partner, officer,
collector, member, stockholder, associate, trustee or cestui que trust thereof.
      SALE. Any sale, offer for sale or attempt to sell any merchandise for
cash or on credit.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.021 LABELING LEAD-BASED OR HEAVY-METAL-BASED PAINTS.
   Effective upon the passage of this chapter, no person shall sell, or hold
for sale, any lead-based coatings or toxic heavy-metal-based coatings as
defined in this chapter (including paint, lacquer or other applied liquid
surface coatings, and putty), unless said lead-based or toxic heavy-metal-based
coating is in a secure container bearing a label on its principal display panel
on which appears the following statement.
 
WARNING CONTAINS _______________________
 
DRIED FILM OF THIS SUBSTANCE MAY BE HARMFUL IF EATEN OR CHEWED.
 
Read Carefully Cautions on Instruction Panel. The following cautionary statement
(or its practical equivalent) shall be placed on the label, but need not be part of
the warning statement on the principal display panel:
 
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN.
 
Do not apply on toys and other children’s articles, furniture, or interior surfaces
of any dwelling or facility which may be occupied or used by children.
 
The blank space in the warning label which follows the word “contains” shall be
filled with either the word “Lead” and/or toxic heavy metal substances which is
present in the amount specified in the definitions contained in sections of this
code.
 
The statements on labels required under the provisions of this section shall be
made in conformance with the following requirements:
 
(a)   The statements shall be presented in such a manner as to be generally
parallel to the declaration of identity and to the base on which the package rests
as it is designed to be displayed and shall be separate from other wording or
designs;
(b)   The word “WARNING” shall be in capital letters of a size not less than 18-
point type and the statements:
 
CONTAINS ___________________________
DRIED FILM OF THIS SUBSTANCE MAY BE HARMFUL IF EATEN OR CHEWED.
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN.
 
shall be in capital letters and of a size not less than 12-point type.
 
(c)   The statement:
 
“Read Carefully. Cautions on Instruction Panel” and the instructions (or their
practical equivalent.)
 
“Do not apply on toys and other children’s articles, furniture or interior surfaces
of any dwelling or facility which may be occupied or used by children” shall be in
a size not less than 10-point type.
 
(d)   In a case where the size of the container is too small to accommodate a label
of sufficient size to allow the of the type size set forth herein, a reduced size
of type which is consistent with other printing on the panel involved may be used,
but in no case shall the size be less than 6-point type unless an exemption has
been granted under § 3(c) of the Federal Hazardous Substance Act and § 191.63 of
the regulations under the Federal Hazardous Substance Labeling Act, being U.S.C. §§
1261 et seq.
 
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.022 AUTHORITY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director of the Department of Revenue is hereby empowered to adopt and
to enforce rules and regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. The Director
of the Department of Revenue, or any agent or employee designated in writing by
the Inspector is hereby authorized to examine books, papers and records of any
person subject to this chapter, during regular business hours in order to
ensure that such person is in compliance with this chapter. The Director of the
Department of Revenue is also authorized hereby, for good cause shown by
affidavit, to grant extensions not in excess of 60 days in compliance with this
chapter. The Director of the Department of Revenue is also authorized to issue
regulations exempting commodities subject to unit pricing and to add
commodities subject to unit pricing on a showing of respectively, hardship or
good cause.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.023 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Department of the Department of Revenue shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
FUELS AND LIQUIDS
§ 122.035 PUMPS AND LIQUID MEASURING DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person owning, operating or using any automatic or mechanical pump
or liquid measuring device for the purpose of measuring any liquid commodity to
be sold or offered for sale within the village shall provide proper tested
standard measures, and shall each day before making the first sale in the
morning, and always before commencing to sell a new supply of liquid, test the
accuracy of the device so in use.
   (B)   No person shall use such automatic or mechanical pump or device
without first having obtained a certificate of approval from the Inspector of
Weights and Measures, nor shall any person use any such automatic or mechanical
pump device that is incorrect or defective.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.036 MEASUREMENT OF FUEL OIL.
   No person shall sell distillate fuels by any other than liquid measure using
the standard gallon as the unit of measure. No person shall sell or deliver or
attempt to sell or deliver to any purchaser in excess of ten gallons of any
distillate fuel unless measured at the place and time of delivery by measure of
a meter or five-gallon liquid measure, tested and sealed by the Department of
Weights and Measures, provided that deliveries of distillate fuel in quantities
of 2,000 gallons or more or of residual fuel of any quantity may be measured
either through a meter or by vehicle tank which has been tested and sealed by
the Department of Weights and Measures.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.037 DISTILLATE FUELS; DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Defined. The term DISTILLATE FUELS, as used herein, shall be construed
to mean and include fuel in liquid form which can or may be used for heating
purposes and which has an American Petroleum Institute gravity normally greater
than 22; however, if the oil has a Saybolt Universal viscosity of more than 55
seconds at 100°F, it shall not be included.
   (B)   Meter recording element. Each and every delivery from any vehicle tank
or other wheeled, conveyance of distillate fuels required to be measured by
meter at the place of delivery, shall conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   The meter shall be equipped with a recording element (i.e., a
ticket printing device); this element or register to print upon the delivery
ticket either the gallonage reading before and after delivery or the zero
indications and total number of gallons delivered.
      (2)   Any meter not now equipped with a recording element shall be so
equipped within a period not to exceed 90 days from and after the effective
date of this section.
      (3)   The delivery ticket shall be inserted in the recording element
after the vehicle reaches the place of delivery; and shall be inserted in the
recording element while the vehicle is in transit.
   (C)   Distillate or residual fuel delivery requirements. All vehicle tank
deliveries of either distillate or residual fuels shall conform to the
following requirements.
      (1)   Each vehicle tank, liquid measure devices and appurtenances used in
such delivery shall conform to the requirements prescribed therefor in the
United States Bureau of Standards Handbook 44, in its latest form and in the
laws and regulations of the state.
      (2)   Upon completion of each delivery, the delivery ticket and at least
one duplicate thereof shall be completed, and one copy thereof shall be given
to the purchaser or to an agent of the purchaser or in the absence of both
shall be left at the place of delivery.
      (3)   On each delivery ticket there shall be distinctly and legibly
expressed the date of delivery, the name and address of the seller, the name
and address of the purchaser, the gallonage reading before and after delivery
or the number of gallons delivered, and the signature of the person making the
delivery.
      (4)   All delivery tickets shall be serially numbered and no ticket or
duplicate thereof shall be destroyed, but may be voided and kept on file. At
least one copy of each delivery ticket shall be retained and preserved for a
period of at least two years after the date of delivery and shall be available
for inspection by the Inspector of Weights and Measures and his or her
deputies.
   (D)   False delivery ticket; substitute product.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver or attempt to
deliver to any purchaser any kind or grade of distillate fuel other than that
ordered by the purchaser, unless the purchaser is notified before delivery is
made.
      (2)   Any person who shall furnish to any person making or in charge of a
delivery of distillate fuels, or to any person to whom such a delivery is made,
a false or fraudulent delivery ticket or a ticket which does not show the
actual meter measurement of the quantity delivered shall, upon conviction, be
fined.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver or attempt to
deliver to any purchaser in the village distillate fuels at an artificially
produced temperature in excess of 60°F.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person making or in charge of delivery
of distillate fuel to refuse, fail or neglect to deliver to the Inspector of
Weights and Measures or to any of the Inspector deputies upon demand therefor,
any ticket evidencing any delivery subject to the provisions of divisions (A)
and (C) above. If the Inspector or deputy desires to retain the ticket, the
Inspector shall make and deliver to the person a signed receipt therefor.
   (E)   Vehicle tank meter; alteration or removal.
      (1)   If after the approval, testing and sealing by the Department of
Revenue of any vehicle tank, meter or measuring device used in delivering
distillate fuels, it shall be necessary to adjust, repair or alter the same or
to remove a meter from a vehicle tank to which it is affixed at the time of
testing and sealing or to install the same on any other vehicle tank, immediate
written notice shall be transmitted in person or by mail to the Department of
Revenue.
      (2)   All adjustable elements on such vehicle tank, meter or measuring
device shall seal with a lead and wire seal by the person or agency making the
adjustment, repair, alteration or removal, pending a retest by the Department
of Revenue.
   (F)   Non-applicability to certain fuel oils. The provisions of §
122.035 of this chapter and divisions (A) through (E) above shall not apply to
fuel oils delivered in packages or in tank cars by railroad, nor to deliveries
by pipeline, boat or barge, nor to deliveries by any method from a refinery,
pipeline terminal or boat or barge terminal into storage at a wholesale
distributing plant of a liquid fuel dealer or distributor.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.038 NEW EQUIPMENT.
   Where any new or additional equipment or appurtenance, except a meter-
recording element or register, is required by the provisions of §§
122.036 and
122.037(A), (B) and (C) of this chapter, for a period of six months from and
after the effective date of said sections, shall be allowed for the procurement
and installation of the same; provided that, the Inspector of Weights and
Measures shall allow additional grace periods of not to exceed six months for
such procurement and installation, if it appears that such additional time is
necessary because the equipment or appurtenance cannot be obtained or installed
during the time there-to-fore allowed.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.039 STANDARD AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT.
   The terms AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT and STANDARD AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT, as used in
this chapter, shall be construed to mean weight expressed in the standard
avoirdupois pound and the decimal or common fractions thereof, or in the
standard avoirdupois pound and ounces and fractions.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.040 SOLID FUEL.
   Every person selling or offering for sale solid fuel in the village shall
sell the same by avoirdupois net weight.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
FOOD ITEMS
§ 122.055 ICE.
   Every person selling ice or offering ice for sale shall, at time of delivery
of any ice sold, weigh the quantity of ice delivered and for that purpose will
be provided with a steelyard balance or other apparatus for weighing such ice
which shall have been duly adjusted and sealed by the Inspector of Weights and
Measures in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. All ice sold within
the city shall be sold by avoirdupois weight unless it is otherwise
specifically agreed upon between the buyer and seller.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.056 FOOD ITEMS TO BE SOLD BY NET WEIGHT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise for sale, keep for
the purpose of sale, offer or expose for sale, or sell, except for immediate
consumption on the premises, or when sold as one of several elements comprising
ready-to-eat meals, whether cooked or uncooked, any fruit or fruit products,
vegetables or vegetable products, live and dressed poultry, poultry products,
meat, meat products, non- liquid animal products, fish and fish products,
butter, cheese and other similar dairy products, except eggs, otherwise than by
standard avoirdupois net weight delivered to the purchaser or prospective
purchaser; provided, however, that, any fresh produce may be sold by the bunch,
each of weight subject to restrictions as may be contained in the rules and
regulations of the Director of the Department of Revenue; and, provided that,
any of the said, products, when sold in package form, shall comply with this
code’s requirements for packages.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following shall be deemed to be a
READY-TO-EAT MEAL: a meal comprised of meat, fish or poultry as the main
portion with vegetables and a starch product included.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.057 WEIGHT.
   Whenever the term WEIGHT is used in this chapter, it shall be construed to
mean net weight.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.058 FOOD PACKAGING; WEIGHT AND PRICE MARKING.
   All packages of meat, meat products, poultry, poultry products, fish, fish
products, non-liquid animal products, cheese, fruits and vegetables prepared
and wrapped by the retailer in advance of being exposed or offered for sale by
the retailer shall be accurately weighed and, in addition to the net weight
marked thereon, shall be marked with the price per pound, and the total selling
price; provided, however, that, fresh produce items such as heads of lettuce,
cabbage or items as specified by the rules of the Director of the Department of
Revenue, wrapped in transparent material, shall not be considered “packaged”,
as defined in this section.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.059 TRANSPARENT WRAPPING.
   All meat, poultry and poultry pans which are packaged by the retailer in
advance of being exposed and offered for sale shall be in an entirely
transparent package, manufacture of non-toxic material approved by the Food and
Drug Administration, as being “Food Grade”, which package shall afford a view
of the contents from all sides of such package, exclusive of the label which
shall not cover more than 5% of such package.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.060 USDA GRADE MARK REQUIRED ON MEAT OR POULTRY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to advertise, offer for sale, or sell any
perishable meat or poultry prepackaged or otherwise, except processed meats and
poultry such as sausage, luncheon meat, smoked or cooked meat, poultry rolls or
canned poultry, unless it has one of the grade marks established by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture official grading standards, as follows:
 
A. For Beef, Veal or Calf B. For Lamb, Yearling and Mutton C. For Poultry
1. U.S. Prime             1. U.S. Prime                    1. USDA Grade A
2. U.S. Choice            2. U.S. Choice                   2. USDA Grade B
3. U.S. Good              3. U.S. Good                     3. USDA Grade C
4. U.S. Standard          4. U.S. Utility
5. U.S. Commercial        5. U.S. Cull.
6. U.S. Utility
 
   (B)   Failure to have such grade marks in the advertisement and on the
product or package, or a sign so located as to be clearly identifiable as the
grade designation of the meat or poultry being offered for sale, is prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section. Grade marks shall be plain and
conspicuous and as prominent as the trade or brand denoting quality.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.061 GENETICALLY ENGINEERED FOOD.
   (A)   As used in this section, GENETICALLY ENGINEERED FOODS means any food
product that is or contains material that has been genetically engineered
through such techniques as recombinant DNA techniques, cell fusion or
somaclonal variation.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a food purveyor establishment displays for sale to the
general public genetically engineered foods, the establishment shall post and
maintain in a prominent location near the display a sign that meets the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   The sign shall state the following: “This Food Product Has Been
Genetically Engineered”. The Director of the Department of Revenue may
promulgate rules regulating the size and placement of the type applicable to
signs required by this section.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.062 FRESH BERRIES AND SMALL FRUITS.
   All fresh berries, cherries, currants and other small fruits sold or offered
for sale in the village shall, in the absence of a special agreement in writing
signed by the parties thereto to the contrary, be sold, if in bulk, by standard
avoirdupois net weight, or by numerical count, or in uniform size baskets,
boxes or other receptacles containing one quart or one pint standard dry
measure or multiples thereof, and in no other way. The said receptacles shall
be uniformly and evenly filled throughout said baskets, boxes or other
receptacles in which or out of which such small fruits are sold or offered for
sale shall not be required to be tested and sealed, but the Inspector of
Weights and Measures, or any Inspector Deputies, may at any time test the
capacity of the basket, box or other receptacle in which, or out of which, said
berries, cherries, currants or other small fruits are sold or offered for sale.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.063 NET QUANTITY ON PACKAGES REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep for the purpose of sale or to offer or
expose for sale, or sell, any commodity in package form unless the net quantity
of the contents is plainly and conspicuously marked on the outside of the
package, in terms of weight, measure or numerical count; provided, however,
that, reasonable variations or tolerances shall be permitted, and that these
reasonable variations or tolerances and exemptions shall be those established
by rules and regulations made and promulgated by the Director of Agriculture of
the state; and, provided further that, this section shall not be construed to
apply to those commodities in package form, the manner of sale of which is
specifically regulated by other provisions of this code.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      IN PACKAGE FORM.
         (a)   A commodity in a package, carton, case, can, box, barrel,
bottle, vial or other receptacle, or in coverings or wrappings of any kind, put
up by the manufacturer, or when put up prior to the order of the commodity, by
the vendor, which may be labeled, branded or stenciled, or otherwise marked, or
which may be suitable for labeling, branding or stenciling, or marking
otherwise, making one complete package of commodity.
         (b)   IN PACKAGE FORM shall be construed to include both the wholesale
and the retail package.
      PACKAGE. Does not include any container in which are packed or contained
packages of a smaller size of a commodity, but this section applies only to the
container directly enclosing the commodity.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.064 REPACKAGING FRUIT AND VEGETABLES.
   Any person selling or offering for sale any fresh or green fruit or
vegetables which have been emptied from and repacked in barrels, boxes, baskets
or other receptacles, shall clearly stamp or write upon the outside of such
barrels, boxes, baskets or other receptacles, in a conspicuous place, the words
“repacked by” and, following such words, the name of the person so re-packing
the said fruit or vegetables.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.065 MILK OR CREAM IN BOTTLES.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale within the village, any milk or cream
in bottles, or in glass jars, unless each of said bottles or glass jars in
which said milk or cream is sold or offered for sale shall have blown into it
or otherwise indelibly and permanently indicated thereon in a legible and
conspicuous manner the capacity thereof: and the Inspector of Weights and
Measures shall have the right at any time to examine any bottle or glass jar in
which milk or cream is sold or offered for sale in the village, or which is
used by any person for the purpose of containing milk or cream to be sold or
offered for sale in order to ascertain whether such bottle or jar is of a
capacity not less than that which it purports to be; provided that, the test of
48 bottles or glass jars to be used for milk or cream sold or offered for sale
containing milk by any person shall be taken by said Inspector, and this
section shall be construed as having been complied with if such number of
bottles or glass jars contain the full capacity herein required; provided
further, however, that, bottles or jars marked “quarter pint” shall contain not
less, than 30 drams; “half pint” not less than 62 drams; “pint” not less than
125 drams; “quart” not less than 252 drams; “three pints” not less than 379
drams; “two quarts” not less than 506 drams; and, provided further that, no
bottle or glass jar shall be considered a legal measure, except for the
distribution, of milk or cream to consumers.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.066 BREAD LOAVES.
   (A)   The standard loaf of bread shall weigh one pound avoirdupois weight.
Every loaf of bread manufactured, procured or kept for sale or sold in the form
of loaves in the city shall be of standard weight or one of the following
weights: one-half of said standard weight, three-quarters of said standard
weight, one and one-quarter times said standard weight, one and one-half times
said standard weight, or multiples of said standard weight. When twin or
multiple loaves are baked, the weight specified in this section shall apply to
each unit of the twin or multiple loaf.
   (B)   The weights specified in this section shall be construed to mean net
weights to be determined by the average weight of at least 12 loaves of any one
unit; provided, however, that, a variation or tolerance of not more than one
ounce per pound in excess or deficiency from the standard unit or marked weight
shall be allowed, and this section will be considered to have been complied
with if the weight of the 12 loaves of the same unit averages out the correct
net weight. Every loaf of bread manufactured, procured or kept for the purpose
of sale, offered or exposed for sale, or sold in the form of loaves in the
village, shall be marked showing the weight of the loaf; and the business name
and address of the maker, baker or manufacturer. If the bread is unwrapped,
this information shall be stated on a label or by pan impression or other
mechanical means, and on wrapped loaves the information shall be stated upon
the wrapper. Each unwrapped loaf of bread, if labeled, shall have affixed
thereon in a conspicuous place, a label of white paper at least one inch
square, or if round, at least one inch in diameter, upon which shall be printed
in black or blue ink in type not smaller or making a less conspicuous letter
than the type commonly known as 12-point, full-face square Franklin Gothic
capital letters and figures, the weight of the loaf. The business name and
address of the maker, baker or manufacturer shall also be printed plainly on
each label. If this information is given by pan impression or other mechanical
means the letters and figures showing the weight shall be plain and legible,
not smaller or making a less conspicuous letter or figure than square full-face
Franklin Gothic capital letters and figures not less than one-half inch in
height in case of wrapped bread the aforesaid information shall be printed
plainly on the wrapper from type not smaller or making a less conspicuous
letter than the type commonly known 24-point, full-face square Gothic capital
letters and figures.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to biscuits, buns,
crackers, scones or rolls weighing less than four ounces, nor to what is
commonly known as “stale bread” and sold as such, in case the seller shall at
the time of sale expressly state to the buyer that the loaves of bread so sold
are “stale” bread.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.067 BISCUITS OR ROLLS.
   No biscuits, buns, scones or rolls of bread which weigh less than one ounce
or more than four ounces shall be manufactured, procured, kept for the purpose
of sale, offered or exposed for sale, or sold in the village; provided,
however, that, a variation or tolerance of not more than one ounce per pound in
excess or deficiency from the standard weight shall be allowed, and the
standard weights herein specified shall be determined by averaging the weight
of not less than five dozen biscuits, buns, scones or rolls of bread of any one
unit. This section will be considered to have been complied with if the weight
of not less than five dozen of the same averages out the correct net weight.
Such biscuits, buns, scones and rolls of bread are not required to be labeled.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
PRICING
§ 122.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISEMENT. Any offer to sell a consumer commodity to the public at
retail by means of any form of public notice, however disseminated or utilized.
   COMPETITIVE PRICING. The use of two prices in advertising the selling price
and the, reference price.
   COMPUTER WAREHOUSE. A warehouse with a data processing system for the
control and distribution of inventory.
   CONSUMER COMMODITY. Any article, product or commodity of any kind or class,
which is produced or distributed for sale retail.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation.
   REFERENCE PRICE. An advertised price to which a selling price is compared in
advertising which employs comparative pricing. REFERENCE PRICE shall include
the use of terms such as, if perfect, list price, regular price, full price,
retail price, former price or words of similar import.
   SELLING PRICE. The price of which a consumer commodity is sold on an given
date. In the case of commodities weighed by retailers, the SELLING PRICE shall
only be computed by using the price per one pound is the basis for the sale;
provided that, the metric system may be employed where customary.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.081 PRICE MARKING AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display for sale any consumer
commodity unless the selling price is accurately stated in a clear and
conspicuous manner. On any prepackaged consumer commodity, except those sold
through vending machines, the selling price shall be marked directly on the
package.
   (B)   On any consumer commodity which is not prepackaged, the selling price
shall be stated on a sign contiguous to the point of display of the consumer
commodity so priced; provided that, when any consumer commodity is not
prepackaged and is sold out-of-doors, the selling price numerals shall be not
less than three inches in height and one and one-half inches in width and any
fractional numerals shall be not less than one-half the height and width of the
whole numerals.
   (C)   The Director of the Department of Revenue is hereby authorized to
permit the use of alternative price notification procedures which may be of
benefit to the citizens of the village and consumers. The Director of the
Department of Revenue may, in conjunction with such alternative procedures,
exempt classes of persons from the individual pricing requirements of this
section and shall, in such event, adopt rules and regulations consistent with
the objectives of this section to ensure accurate notice to consumers of the
actual selling price of consumer products. Such regulations shall ensure that:
      (1)   The selling price of each consumer commodity is stated in a clear
and conspicuous manner at the location where each such commodity is displayed
for sale;
      (2)   Each sale shall be documented by a receipt given to each purchaser
which shall contain a record of the commodities purchased and the selling price
of each such commodity; and
      (3)   The savings realized by reason of not requiring each individual
pre-packaged commodity to be price-marked shall be passed onto the consumer.
   (D)   No person shall be deemed to comply with such regulations, except
those receiving a certificate from the Director of the Department of Revenue,
after application therefore on such form as the Director of the Department of
Revenue shall prescribe that such person complies with the regulations.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.082 SALES; STATEMENT OF DURATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise a “sale” or other temporary
change in prices unless the duration of the sale or other temporary change in
terms of time is disclosed by stating the number of days or termination date;
provided, however, that, where a termination date has been advertised in good
faith, the date may be extended.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.083 REFERENCE PRICE; DISCLOSURE; IDENTICAL, COMPARABLE ARTICLES.
   (A)   Disclosure. It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise a
reference price unless the reference price is disclosed in a clear and
conspicuous manner or can be readily ascertained by disclosure of the dollar,
fraction or percentage reduction in price.
   (B)   Based on sale of identical article. It shall be unlawful for any
person to advertise a reference price based on sales of the identical article
unless the reference price is the actual price at which the article was offered
to the public by the advertiser or by principal competing persons in the
advertiser’s trade area for reasonably substantial period of time in the recent
regular course of business, honestly and in good faith, as determined by
regulations adopted by the Director of the Department of Revenue.
   (C)   Based on sale of comparable article. It shall be unlawful for any
person to advertise a reference price based on sales of a comparable article
unless:
      (1)   The two articles are in fact substantially identical in all
significant respects and such comparability can be established by reference to
generally accepted standards of identity or performance or otherwise; and
      (2)   The reference price of such comparable article is the actual price
at which the article was offered to the public by the advertiser or by
principal competing persons in the advertiser’s trade area for a reasonably
substantial period of time in the recent regular course of business, honestly
and in good faith as determined by regulations adopted by the Director of the
Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.084 LOWERED PRICES DUE TO UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise in a manner which
expressly or impliedly offers lowered prices on commodities as a result of some
unusual circumstances unless the circumstances are true and the advertised
prices are actually lower than the advertiser’s usual prices.
   (B)   UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES include, but are not limited to, terms such as
“special purchase”, “exceptional purchase”, “clearance”, “manufacturer’s
closeout” and “outdated merchandise”, as the term is defined in §
122.020 of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.085 WHOLESALE OR FACTORY PRICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise a consumer commodity
for sale by using terms such as “wholesale” or “factory” to describe prices
unless the prices offered to consumers are the same prices as paid by retailers
or as paid by those who purchase directly from the manufacturer or wholesaler
for resale.
   (B)   Location of advertised sale commodity to be readily ascertainable. It
shall be unlawful for any person to advertise a consumer commodity for sale
unless the location of such commodity in the advertiser’s place of business
shall be readily ascertainable by the customer.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999) Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.086 COMMODITY UNIT PRICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale any of the
commodities listed in this division (A), except items advertised as “sale”
items, unless the unit price information is provided in a clear and conspicuous
manner on a sign or shelf tag which lists the identity and brand name of the
commodity, the quantity declaration of the packaged commodity, the total retail
sales price and the price per unit as set herein below.
Commodities Unit Price Standard
Commodities                             Unit Price Standard
Candy                                   Price per pound
Cereals                                 Price per pound
Cheese, natural and processed           Price per pound
Coffee, tea and cocoa                   Price per pound
Cooking oils and shortening             Price per quart or pound
Deodorants, personal                    Price per ounce
Dry detergents, soap, powders and       Price per pound
cleaners and disinfectants
Foil, film and other rolls of wrapping  Price per 50 sq. ft.
Fruit and vegetable juices and drinks   Price per quantity
Fruit and vegetables                    Price per pound or per unit, or whole
                                        unit, or whole unit of dry measure
Hair preparations                       Price per ounce
Jellies, preserves and peanut butter    Price per pound
Liquid soups and condensed liquid soups Price per pound or quantity
Meat, poultry and sea food              Price per pound
Pet food                                Price per pound
Relishes and condiments                 Price per pound or quantity
Rice                                    Price per pound
Sanitary paper products                 Price per 50 sq. ft, or if by count per
                                        50 units, including ply
Shaving preparations                    Price per ounce
Syrups, table and topping               Price per pound or quart
Toilet water and colognes               Price per ounce
Toothpaste                              Price per ounce
 
      (2)   The standard of reference for all categories listed above shall be
the latest edition of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, published
by the Executive Office of the President, Bureau of the Budget.
      (3)   Any of the consumer commodities listed herein shall be exempt from
these provisions when there is only one brand in only one size appearing in a
retail establishment.
   (B)   The unit price information shall be to the nearest, $0.001 when less
than $1 and to the nearest cent when a dollar or more and shall be presented as
follows:
      (1)   In a retail establishment in which unit price information is
provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, that information
shall be displayed by means of a sticker, stamp, sign, label or tag affixed to
the shelf upon which the commodity is displayed, or by means of a sticker,
stamp, sign, label or tag affixed to the consumer commodity itself, stating the
unit price of one or more brands and sizes of a given consumer commodity.
      (2)   Where a sign providing unit price information for one or more sizes
or brands of a given consumer commodity is used, that sign shall be provided
clearly and in a non-deceptive manner in a central location as close as
practical to all items to which the sign refers.
      (3)   If a single sign or tag provides the unit price information for
more than one brand or size of a consumer commodity, then the following
information shall be provided:
         (a)   The identity and the brand name of the consumer commodity;
         (b)   The quantity declaration of the packaged commodity if more than
one package size per brand is displayed;
         (c)   The total retail sales price; and
         (d)   The unit price in accordance with division (A) above.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.087 UNIT PRICE STANDARDS; EXCEPTIONS.
   This section shall not apply to sales at retail by means of vending machines
or by retail establishments that do not have their own computer warehouse
operation or whose annual sales of commodities specified in §
122.086 of this chapter are less than 10% of such establishments total annual
sales.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 122.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, including any weighmaster or deputy weighmaster, that
shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall when no other
specific penalty is herein provided, be fined not less than $10, nor more than
$200, for each offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.001 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100,
for each offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any weight, measure, scale, beam, patent balance, steelyards or
other instrument used for weighing that does not conform to the standards of
the state shall be marked “condemned” and the owner thereof shall, within ten
days thereafter, have the same properly adjusted and sealed, as per §
112.003 of this chapter, be subject to a penalty of not more than $10.
      (2)   If any person shall use, maintain or operate in the city in
weighing or measuring, as per §
112.003 of this chapter, any weight, measure, scale beam, patent balance,
steelyard or other instrument which shall not be conformable to the standard of
the state, or shall use in weighing, as aforesaid, any scale beam, patent
balance, steelyard or other instrument which shall be out of order or
incorrect, or which shall not balance, he or she shall be fined for every such
offense not less than $25, nor more than $100.
   (D)   Any weight, measure, scale, beam, patent balances, steelyards or other
instrument used for weighing, as per §
112.004 of this chapter, that does not conform to the standards of this state
shall be marked “condemned” and the owner thereof shall, within ten days
thereafter, have the same properly adjusted and sealed, or be subject to a
penalty of not more than $10 and the Department may at any time after the
expiration of the time aforesaid, seize and destroy any and all such condemned
weights, measures, scales, patent balances, steelyards and other instruments
used for weighing found in use.
   (E)   Any itinerant peddler or hawker found using any ice scale, as per §
122.006 of this chapter, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor
more than $50, for each offense.
   (F)   Any person violating any of the provisions of § 112.008 of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100, for each offense.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.009 of this chapter shall be fined not less $25, nor more than $200, for
each offense
   (H)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.014 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $200,
for each offense.
   (I)   Any person, selling and delivering or attempting to deliver any load
lot of any commodity that has been re-weighed on the scale of the public
weighmaster on which it was originally weighed at his or her request, who shall
refuse or fail to allow said load to be delivered to the destination it was
originally billed or sent to, or who shall fail or refuse to have the load,
removed from the vehicle used in the delivery thereof, or who shall hinder or
obstruct the Inspector of Weights and Measures, or any Inspector deputies, from
obtaining and ascertaining the net weight of the commodity delivered or
attempted to be delivered, as per §
122.017 of this chapter, shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $200,
for each offense.
   (J)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.018(B) of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, or more than $200,
for each such offense. The penalty provided herein shall be in addition to an
penalty that may be imposed under other relevant sections of this code;
provided that, whenever the re-weighing is done on a scale other than the scale
on which the weighing was originally done, a variance of 1% or less in the net
weight of a load lot between the net weight as set forth in the certificate and
the net weight as ascertained by re-weighing such load shall not be considered
a violation of §
122.018(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person in charge of the conveyance or delivering of any
commodity who shall have in his or her possession or who shall deliver any
false or fraudulent certificate of weight or delivery ticket or any said ticket
or certificate which is not the result of an actual weighting, as per §
122.018(C) of this chapter, shall be fined not less not less $50, nor more than
$200, for each offense.
   (K)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.019 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500,
for each offense.
   (L)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.021 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500,
for each offense.
   (M)   (1)   Any person who shall furnish to any person making or in charge
of a delivery of distillate fuels, or to any person to whom such a delivery is
made, a false or fraudulent delivery ticket or a ticket which does not show the
actual meter measurement of the quantity delivered, as per §
122.037(D) of this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50,
nor more than $200.
      (2)   Any person failing to seal such adjustable elements or transmit
such notice, as per §
122.037(E) of this chapter, shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $25,
nor more than $200, for each offense.
   (N)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.056 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $200,
for each offense.
   (O)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.058 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $200,
for each offense.
   (P)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.060 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $200,
for each offense.
   (Q)   Any person who owns or controls an establishment that is in violation
of §
122.061 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25, and
not more than $100, for the first offense; not less than $100, and not more
than $250, for the second offense; and not less than $250, and not more than
$500, for a third or subsequent offense. Each day that such violation occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (R)   Any person selling or offering for sale any such small fruits in any
basket, box or other receptacle that is of a capacity different from that
herein before provided, or in any basket, box or other receptacle that is not
uniformly and evenly filled throughout, as per §
122.062 of this chapter, shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100,
for each offense.
   (S)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.064 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100,
for each offense.
   (T)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.065 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $2, nor more than $100,
for each offense, and the possession of such bottle or glass jar not so marked
as provided in this section or of a lesser capacity than marked thereon and
used or to be used, or which has been used by such person for the purpose of
containing milk or cream to be sold or offered for sale in the village, shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (U)   Any person, violating any of the provisions of §
122.066 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $200,
for each offense.
   (V)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
122.067 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500,
for each offense. Any violation of any of the provisions of §
122.067 of this chapter, in addition to any fine provided for herein, may be
grounds for revocation of any license issued by the village to any such
violator; provided, however, that, nothing herein contained shall be construed
so as to preclude the revocation of any license for violation of any other
provision of this municipal code.
   (W)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
122.081 through
122.087 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500,
for each offense. Any violation of any of the provisions of §§
122.081 through
122.087 of this chapter, in addition to any fines provided for herein, may be
grounds for revocation of any license issued by the village to any such
violator.
(Ord. 99-111, passed 6-21-1999)
CHAPTER 123: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
Section
Landlord Licensing and Crime-Free Housing Program
   
123.001   Definitions
   
123.002   License to operate rental structures
   
123.003   Notice of failure to license
   
123.004   License issuance or denial
   
123.005   Revocation or denial of license
   
123.006   Violations; notice of administrative adjudication proceedings
   
123.007   Chronic public nuisance
   
123.008   Crime-free housing
   
123.009   Civil action by village to enforce compliance
 
   
123.999   Penalty
LANDLORD LICENSING AND CRIME-FREE HOUSING PROGRAM
§ 123.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Recoupment, counterclaim, setoff, suit at law or in equity and any
other proceeding in which rights are determined.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Building Commissioner (as defined in § 151.016 of
this code of ordinances, as amended) or any person designated by the Building
Commissioner.
   CERTIFIED AS A RESIDENTIAL OPERATOR. The annual certification of a landlord
of a residential rental unit or structure, who has been issued a residential
operator’s license, a security certificate, as described herein, and a
certificate of completion of the Crime-Free Housing Seminar presented by the
village’s Police Department.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the village.
   CHRONIC PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTY. Any rental unit at, in or which any three
or more public nuisances have occurred within any one-year period, and any
multiple dwelling residential rental structure at, in or which any six or more
public nuisances have occurred within any one-year period.
   CODE. Any state statute, village code provision or ordinance or governmental
regulation concerning fitness for habitation, or the construction, maintenance,
operation, occupancy, use or appearance of any premises or dwelling unit.
   CONDITIONAL LICENSE. A temporary residential operator’s license issued to
permit the rental of a rental unit or structure that has a violation or
violations of applicable regulations, or to permit the rental of a rental unit
or structure prior to attendance by the landlord, or a designated agent, at the
required Crime-Free Housing Seminar.
   CRIME-FREE HOUSING SEMINAR. A seminar sponsored by the village’s Police
Department to provide information to landlords and their designated agents
regarding the landlord-tenant requirements under the village code, including
the crime-free housing leasing provision described in this subchapter.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an
independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with
separate bathroom and facilities for cooking and sleeping.
   INSPECTION GROUP. The portion of a building or those buildings within an
apartment complex as may be under the same legal and/or beneficial ownership.
   LANDLORD. The owners, lessor or sublessor of a dwelling unit or the building
of which the dwelling unit is a part.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling consisting of more than one dwelling unit,
and in which one or more dwelling units is used as a residential rental unit,
including a single-family residence.
   NOTICE. Unless otherwise stated in this subchapter, all notices required
herein shall be in writing and shall be served by one party upon the other by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or personally served
upon the landlord, lessee or member a household over the age of 12.
   OWNER. One or more persons, jointly or severally, in whom is vested all or
part of the legal title to the premises, or all or part of the beneficial
ownership and a right to present use and enjoyment of the premises, including a
mortgage holder in possession.
   PERMIT. To suffer, allow, approve, consent to, acquiesce in or agree to the
doing of an act, including the failure to prevent through inaction.
   PERSON. An individual or a corporation, government, governmental subdivision
or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or any other legal or
commercial entity.
   PREMISES. A dwelling unit and the structure of which it is a part, and
facilities and appurtenances therein, and grounds, areas and facilities held
out for the use of tenants.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any offense defined and prohibit by Art. 9 (Homicide) of the
Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/9-1 et seq.;
      (2)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 10 (Kidnapping and
Related Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/10-1 et seq.;
      (3)   Any offenses defined and prohibited by §§ 11-14 (Prostitution), 11-
15 (Soliciting for a Prostitute), 11-16 (Pandering), 11-17 (Keeping a Place of
Prostitution), 11-20 (Child Pornography), 11-21 (Harmful Material to Minors) of
the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/11-14, 5/11-14.3, 5/11-15, 5/11-20, 5/11-
20.1, 5/11-21 and 5/37-1;
      (4)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 12 (Bodily Harm) of the
Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/12 et seq.;
      (5)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 16 (Theft) of the
Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/16-1 et seq.;
      (6)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 20-2 (Possession of
Explosives or Incendiary Devices) of the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/20-
2 et seq.;
      (7)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 24 (Deadly Weapons) of
the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.;
      (8)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 25 (Mob Action) of the
Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/25-1 et seq.;
      (9)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 26-2 (Disorderly
Conduct) of the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/26-1 et seq.;
      (10)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 28 (Gambling) of the
Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq.;
      (11)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 31 (Interference with
Public Officers) of the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/31-1 et seq.;
      (12)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 6-16 (Prohibited Sales
and Possession) or § 6-20 (Purchase or Acceptance of Gift of liquor by Persons
Under Age 21) of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/6-16 and 5/6-20;
      (13)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the state’s Controlled
Substance Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.;
      (14)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Cannabis Control Act,
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.; and
      (15)   Any inchoate offense defined and prohibited by Art. 8 (Inchoate
Offense) of the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/8-1 et seq., which is
relative to the commission of any of the aforesaid principal offenses.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ACTIVITY. The commission of any, or conduct which
constitutes any, of the offenses declared to be a public nuisance.
   RENT. All payments to be made to the landlord under the rental agreement.
   RENTAL AGREEMENT. Any agreements and valid rules and regulations adopted
pursuant to agreement under this subchapter, embodying the terms and conditions
concerning the use and occupancy of a specified dwelling unit and premises.
   RENTAL STRUCTURE. Any building which includes a dwelling unit or units for
rent, including single-family residents and multiple dwelling structures.
   RENTAL UNIT. A dwelling unit in a rental structure occupied or available for
occupancy by one or more persons, other than the owner of record, under a
rental agreement.
   RESIDENTIAL OPERATOR’S LICENSE. A license to rent a rental unit or rental
structure as required by this subchapter.
   TENANT. A person entitled under a rental agreement to occupy a rental unit.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Dolton.
(Ord. 07-417, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 123.002 LICENSE TO OPERATE RENTAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate, maintain or offer to rent
for residential purposes within the village a rental unit or rental structure,
whether vacant or not, without first obtaining a residential operator’s license
as provided in this subchapter. The license shall be issued only to an
inspection group, as defined in this subchapter.
      (2)   It is unlawful for a person to enter into a residential lease,
either as lessor or lessee, if the premises are posted as being unlicensed or
having a revoked or suspended license.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to occupy, renew a lease, offer for
rent or permit occupancy of any dwelling unit that is unlicensed or whose
license is revoked or suspended.
   (B)   License application.
      (1)   Each applicant for a license to maintain a rental structure shall
file a written application with the code official stating:
         (a)   The full legal name, address and home and work telephone numbers
(fax numbers and e-mail addresses, if available) of each and every legal and
beneficial owner;
         (b)   The address of the multiple dwelling rental structure;
         (c)   The number of dwellings within the structure(s); and
         (d)   In the case of an owner who is not a resident of the village,
then either:
            1.   The full legal name, address and home and work telephone,
number (fax number and email address if available) of an agent within the
village with authority to accept service or notice of a violation; or
            2.   A statement by the owner that service by regular mail upon the
owner at the address stated in the application will be considered sufficient
service for all purposes.
      (2)   All license fees shall be due and payable on or before May 1 of
each year. All licenses shall expire on April 30 of each year from the date of
issuance;
      (3)   Whenever there is a change in the ownership of a rental structure
or a change in the owner’s property agent, the owners shall, within 15 days of
such change, file a written notice with the code official indicating such
change;
      (4)   Application for license renewal shall be made in the same manner as
a new application except that the application shall state that it is for
renewal; and
      (5)   The license application fee shall be $50 for dwellings consisting
of one units. If an application for a renewal of an existing license is
received after April 30, the fee shall be increased to $100.
(Ord. 07-417, passed 10-1-2007; Ord. 08-429, passed 1-22-2008; Ord. 14-008,
passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
123.999
§ 123.003 NOTICE OF FAILURE TO LICENSE.
   Whenever an owner or property agent of a rental property fails to license
the property, the village shall post a notice on all entrances to the rental
properly containing the following statement:
 
You are hereby notified that the owner or agent of this rental structure has
failed to license this rental property with the Village of Dolton in violation
of §
123.002 of the Village of Dolton Municipal Code. No new leases may be entered
into and no leases may be renewed until the proper license is secured.
 
(Ord. 07-417, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 123.004 LICENSE ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Each rental unit, multiple dwelling rental structure and each rental
unit within the multiple dwelling rental structure shall be subject to
inspection in accordance with this subchapter and the village’s Housing Code at
§§
151.115 through
151.125 of this code of ordinances, for compliance with all applicable
regulations.
   (B)   A license may be denied if the properly has been inspected and is not
in compliance with the Housing Code or the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   In such a case, the licensee may apply for a conditional license.
(Ord. 07-417, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 123.005 REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever, upon inspection of an inspection group or any portion
of an inspection group, the Building Commissioner finds that conditions or
practices remain which are in violation of this subchapter and the village’s
Housing Code, §§
151.115 through
151.125 of this code of ordinances, the Building Commissioner shall serve the
owner or operator with a final notice of violation, unless otherwise provided
by this subchapter.
      (2)   The notice shall state that unless all violations cited are
corrected within a reasonable time of not less than five days, nor more than 30
days, the operating license will be revoked.
      (3)   In the case of a renewal, the notice shall provide that the license
will be denied.
   (B)   (1)   At the expiration of the time allowed for correction of any
violation cited, the Building Commissioner shall re-inspect the rental unit
and/or multiple dwelling residential rental structure and if it is determined
that the violations have not been corrected, an order shall be issued to revoke
or deny the operating license.
      (2)   The order shall take effect seven days following mailing to the
landlord unless a hearing is requested as set forth in division (C) below.
   (C)   Any person whose license to operate a rental unit and/or a multiple
dwelling rental structure is subject to revocation or denial shall be entitled
to a hearing on the revocation or denial by filing with the Village Clerk a
written request for a hearing before the Mayor within seven days following the
mailing of the revocation order. Upon receipt of the request, the hearing shall
be scheduled for a date not more than 21 business days thereafter. Upon
completion of the hearing, the Mayor may either:
      (1)   Confirm the revocation or denial; or
      (2)   Hold the revocation in abeyance and allow additional compliance
time not to exceed 30 days; or
      (3)   Rescind the revocation or issue the license.
   (D)   If a timely request for a hearing is not filed, the revocation or
denial order shall be effective.
   (E)   In the event an operating license is revoked or denied, the following
shall be applicable:
      (1)   No existing rental agreement or lease shall be renewed and no new
rental agreement or lease shall be entered into with respect to any rental unit
located within the inspection group; and
      (2)   The village may file a civil action pursuant to §
123.009 of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   A license which has been revoked or denied shall not be
reinstated.
      (2)   The property owners may obtain a new license after all violations
have been corrected and by following the procedures for obtaining a new license
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (G)   (1)   Whenever a license is revoked or denied, the Building
Commissioner shall send notice to the property owner or the listed property
agent at the last address provided on the most recent license application.
      (2)   (a)   The notice shall be sent by registered mail, return receipt
requested.
         (b)   The Building Commissioner shall also notify all tenants of the
rental residential structure by posting a notice on all entrances to the rental
residential structure.
      (3)   The notice to the tenants shall include the following statement:
 
You are hereby notified that the license for this structure has been revoked or
denied pursuant to §
123.005 of the Municipal Code of the Village of Dolton. No existing rental
agreement or lease shall be renewed and no new rental agreement or lease shall
be entered into with respect to any rental unit located within this building.
 
(Ord. 07-417, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 123.006 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The following shall constitute violations of this subchapter:
      (1)   Failure of the owner or owners of the rental residential property
to obtain a license for such property;
      (2)   Failure of the owner or owners of the rental residential property
to maintain the structure and premises in compliance with applicable village
regulations;
      (3)   To remove or deface any notice which has been posted pursuant to
this subchapter; and
      (4)   Violations of the licensing requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of adjudication system of the village code, shall
govern the process for service and notice of any violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   No person acting as managing agent or collector of rents of any
property involved in any proceeding because of violations or alleged violations
of the provisions of this subchapter shall be liable thereof if such person
shall, within five days after receipt of notice of any alleged violation, have
notified the owner or owners of the property or the employer of such person of
the purported violation or violations of any provision or provisions of this
subchapter and shall have delivered to the Building Commissioner a copy of such
notice with proof of service thereof on the owner, owners or employer.
(Ord. 07-417, passed 10-1-2007) Penalty, see §
123.999
§ 123.007 CHRONIC PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of chronic public nuisance property.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to
intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently permit any rental unit and/
or multiple dwelling residential rental structure within the village to become,
exist or be used as a chronic public nuisance, and any chronic public nuisances
found to exist within the village shall be subject to abatement in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   For purpose of this section, RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE shall include
the land which is affixed, incidental or pertinent to that structure,
including, but not limited to, any parking area, common area, premises, room,
house, building or structure, or any separate part or portion thereof.
   (B)   Pre-abatement procedure. Whenever the Chief of Police, or the Chief of
Police’s designee, receives one police report of any law enforcement agency
lawfully exercising jurisdiction in the village, which report or describes
public nuisance activity within the same one-year period at, in or on the same
rental unit or the same multiple dwelling residential rental structure, the
Chief of Police, or the Chief of Police’s designee, may take the following
action:
      (1)   Notify the landlord that the property may be in danger of becoming
a chronic public nuisance property. The notice shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the dwelling unit and/or multiple residential rental
structure.
         (b)   A statement that the Chief of Police has information that the
property is in danger of becoming a chronic public nuisance property with a
concise description of the public nuisance activities that may exist or that
have occurred. Said notice shall further state the following:
            1.   Demand that corrective action be taken to ensure that a third
or subsequent public nuisance activity does not occur in, on or at a rental
unit within that one-year period, or, in the case of a multiple dwelling
residential rental structure, to ensure that a sixth or subsequent public
nuisance activity does not occur within that one-year period;
            2.   Explain that, in the event of a subsequent occurrence of a
public nuisance activity on that property, the Chief of Police may declare the
property a chronic public nuisance, such that the landlord’s residential
operator’s license shall be subject to revocation;
            3.   Recommend that the landlord enforce the crime-free lease
provision through eviction or take such other reasonable corrective action as
the Chief of Police deems necessary; and
            4.   Notify the landlord that the landlord has the right to request
a hearing before the Mayor to contest the determination of an occurrence of
public nuisance activity. Said request for a hearing must be received by the
Village Clerk within either seven days following the date such notice was
personally delivered or placed in the mail. If such a request for a hearing is
not received within that time period, the Chief of Police’s determination shall
become final.
         (c)   Said notice shall be served by regular U.S. or by personal
service.
      (2)   Whenever the Chief of Police, or the Chief of Police’s designee,
receives subsequent police reports of any law enforcement agency lawfully
exercising jurisdiction in the village, which report or describe a second or
subsequent public nuisance activity at, in or on the same rental unit or a
second, third, fourth or fifth or subsequent public nuisance activity at, in or
on a multiple dwelling residential rental structure within the same one-year
period or the same multiple dwelling residential rental structure, the Chief of
Police, or the Chief of Police’s designee, shall send a notice in the form set
forth in division (B)(1) above. For purpose of this section, it is not
necessary that notices be sent for each public nuisance activity that may
occur, but that two pre-abatement notices be sent in regard to pubic nuisance
activities at a rental unit, and five pre-abatement notices be sent in regard
to such activities at a multiple dwelling residential rental structure, prior
to commencement of the abatement proceedings set forth below.
   (C)   Abatement procedure. If, after complying with the notification
procedures described in division (B) above, the Chief of Police receives a
police report documenting the occurrence of a third or subsequent police
nuisance activity at, in or on the rental unit and/or receives a police report
documenting the occurrence a sixth or subsequent public nuisance activity at,
in or on a multiple dwelling residential rental structure within one year of
the acts or conduct with respect to which a notification was issued, and
determines that the property has become a chronic public nuisance property, the
Chief of Police shall:
      (1)   Notify the landlord of the rental unit and/or multiple dwelling
residential rental structure that the property has been declared a chronic
public nuisance property. The notice shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
         (b)   A statement that the Chief of Police has determined the property
to be a chronic public nuisance property with a concise description of the
public nuisance activities leading to that finding; and
         (c)   A statement that the Chief of Police has recommended to the
Building Commissioner the revocation or suspension of the residential
operator’s license or the denial of an application for a residential operator’s
license.
      (2)   Said notice shall be served by regular U.S. mail or by personal
service.
   (D)   Hearing procedure.
      (1)   A hearing shall be held on the recommendation of the Chief of
Police pursuant to division (C) above to revoke or suspend a residential
operator’s license or to deny the application for a residential operator’s
license.
      (2)   The hearing shall be convened by the Building Commissioner before
the Hearing Officer/Judge authorized to hear building/housing citations and
pursuant to the procedures set forth in §
123.009 of this chapter.
      (3)   The landlord shall have the right to appeal pursuant to the
provisions found in §
10.042 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Burden of proof; notice.
      (1)   (a)   In an action seeking abatement of a chronic public nuisance
property by revocation or suspension of the landlord’s residential operator’s
license, the village shall have the initial burden of showing by a
preponderance of evidence that the property is a chronic public nuisance
property.
         (b)   The village shall be represented by the Village Prosecutor at
said hearings.
      (2)   For purpose of showing that the property is a chronic public
nuisance property and that a public nuisance has occurred on the property, the
testimony of police officers to recount witness statements shall be admissible,
subject to the discretion of the Hearing Officer.
      (3)   The following are defenses to an action seeking suspension or
revocation of a residential operator’s license:
         (a)   The landlord, at the time in question, could not, in the
exercise of reasonable care or diligence, determine that the property had
become a chronic public nuisance property, or could not, in spite of the
exercise of reasonable care and diligence, control the conduct leading to the
findings that the property is a chronic public nuisance property; and
         (b)   The public nuisance activities occurring at a rental unit were
not related to the same tenant. Public nuisance activities at a rental unit are
subject to abatement under this section, if they occur while the rental unit is
leased to the same tenant.
      (4)   The failure of any person to receive the notices in divisions (B)
and (C) above shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the proceedings under
this section.
   (F)   Notice sent.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner shall cause notice to be sent to the
property owner or the listed property agent at the last address provided on the
most recent application of the revocation or suspension of a license.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by registered mail, return receipt
requested.
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall also notify all tenants of the rental
residential structure by posting a notice on all entrances to the rental
residential structure.
      (4)   The notice to the tenants shall include the statement that is set
forth in §
123.005 of this chapter.
   (G)   Eviction or retaliation prohibited. It shall be unlawful for an owner
to terminate the lease agreement of a tenant or otherwise retaliate against any
tenant because that tenant complained to the Chief of Police or the Building
Commissioner about nuisance activities on the owner’s premises.
(Ord. 07-417, passed 10-1-2007) Penalty, see §
123.999
§ 123.008 CRIME-FREE HOUSING.
   (A)   (1)   A residential operator’s license shall not be issued until the
landlord, or designated agent, has attended and successfully completed the
village’s Crime-Free Housing Seminar.
      (2)   Licenses shall be null and void if the landlord, or designated
agent, fails to comply with the seminar requirement by 5-1-2008.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that a landlord makes application for a residential
operator’s license and has met all other license requirements, but a Crime-Free
Housing Seminar is not available, a conditional license may be issued,
effective no more than three months from the date of issuance, subject to
attendance and successful completion by the landlord, or his or her designated
agent, of that seminar within that time period.
      (2)   Upon completion of the seminar within that time period, a
residential operator’s license shall be issued for the balance of the year.
   (C)   In the event that a designated agent attends the Crime-Free Housing
Seminar to comply with this section, and that agent is no longer employed by
the landlord or designated by the landlord to be responsible for managing the
rental unit and/or multiple dwelling residential rental structure under the
residential operator’s license, the landlord or a newly designated agent, shall
attend and successfully complete the seminar within three months of that event.
   (D)   (1)   A landlord of a residential rental unit or structure may be
certified as a residential operator upon issuance of a residential operator
license, and a certificate of completion of the Crime-Free Housing Seminar.
      (2)   The certification as a residential operator shall be issued on an
annual basis, subject to annual compliance with the above requirements.
   (E)   (1)   At any time after two years from the date of the issuance of a
residential operator’s license, a landlord or designated agent may be required
to attend and successfully complete the Crime-Free Housing Seminar.
      (2)   Such requirement shall be subject to the determination of the Chief
of Police who shall consider the following in making such determination:
         (a)   Whether the rental unit or multiple dwelling residential rental
structure, subject to the residential operator’s license, is in danger of
becoming a nuisance residential rental property as defined in this subchapter;
and
         (b)   Whether the criminal activity is occurring on the premises and
the landlord has failed to initiate eviction proceedings or take other
appropriate action.
      (3)   (a)   A residential operator’s license shall not be renewed if
attendance is required and not complete within three months of the notice to
that effect.
         (b)   Such notice shall be delivered or mailed to the landlord, or
designated agent, at the address designated on the most recent license
application.
   (F)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a list of landlords and/or
designated agents who have attended the Crime-Free Housing Seminar and/or who
are certified residential operators, along with the dates of attendance and
verification that the landlord or designated agent has otherwise complied with
the village code to be eligible for issuance or renewal of a residential
operator’s license.
   (G)   (1)   Upon adoption of this section, every subsequent lease, including
lease extensions shall contain a Crime-Free Lease Provision, the purpose of
which is to make criminal activity, not limited to violent or drug-related
criminal activity, engaged by, facilitated by or permitted by the lessee,
member of the household, guest or other party under the control of the lessee,
a lease violation, and to provide the landlord with authority under that clause
to initiate eviction proceedings pursuant to state law.
      (2)   The Crime-Free Lease Provision shall be in substantially the
following form:
 
CRIME-FREE HOUSING LEASE PROVISION
Prohibition Against Criminal Activity on Premises
 
(1)   The tenant, any member of the tenant’s household, tenant’s guest(s), and any
person under tenant’s control shall not engage in or facilitate criminal activity on
the leased premises or on lessor’s property, which includes the leased premises, at
________.
(2)   The tenant, any member of the tenant’s household, tenant’s guest(s) and any
person under tenant’s control shall not permit the leased premises to be used for, or
to facilitate, criminal activity, regardless of whether the individual engaging in
such activity is a member of the household, or a guest.
(3)   The tenant, any member of the tenant’s household, tenant’s guest(s) and any
person under tenant’s control shall not engage in or facilitate any breach of the
lease agreement that jeopardizes the health, safety and welfare of the landlord, his
or her agent or other tenant, or involves imminent or actual serious property damage.
(4)   The tenant is vicariously liable for the criminal activity of any member of the
tenant’s household, tenant’s guest(s), and any person under tenant’s control, whether
or not the tenant had knowledge of the activity or whether or not the household
member or guest was under the tenant’s control, and the activity occurred on the
premises.
(5)   One or more violations of subsections 1, 2, or 3 of this lease section
constitute a substantial violation and a material non- compliance with the lease. Any
such violation is grounds for termination of tenancy and eviction from the leased
premises. Unless otherwise required by law, proof of violation shall not require a
criminal conviction, but shall by a preponderance of the evidence.
(6)   In case of conflict between the provisions of this crime-free addendum and any
other provision of the lease, the provisions of this addendum shall govern.
(7)   For purposes of this lease section, criminal activity shall mean:
(a)   Any offense defined and prohibit by Art. 9 (Homicide) of the Criminal Code of
1961, 720 ILCS 5/9-1 et seq.
(b)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 10 (Kidnapping and related offenses)
of the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/10-1 et seq.
(c)   Any offenses defined and prohibited by § 11-14 (Prostitution), § 11-15
(Soliciting for a Prostitute), § 11-16 (Pandering), § 11-17 (Keeping a Place of
Prostitution), § 11-20 (Child Pornography), § 11-21 (Harmful Material to Minors) of
the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/11-14, 5/11-14.3, 5/11-15, 5/11-20, 5/11-20.1
and 5/11-21.
(d)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 12 (Bodily Harm) of the Criminal
Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/12 et seq.
(e)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 16 (Theft) of the Criminal Code of
1961,720 ILCS 5/16-1 et seq.
(f)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 20-2 (Possession of Explosives or
Incendiary Devices) of the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/20-2 et seq.
(g)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 24 (Deadly Weapons) of the Criminal
Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.
(h)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 25 (Mob Action) of the Criminal Code
of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/25-1 et seq.
(i)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 26-2 (Disorderly Conduct) of the
Criminal Code of 1961,720 ILCS 5/26-1 et seq.
(j)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 28 (Gambling) of the Criminal Code
of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq.
(k)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 31 (Interference with Public
Officers) of the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/31-1 et seq.
(1)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Art. 6-16 (Prohibited Sales and
Possession) or § 6-20 (Purchase or Acceptance of Gift of Liquor by Persons Under Age
21) of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/6-16 and 5/6-20.
(m)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the state’s Controlled Substance Act, 720
ILCS 570/100 et seq.(o)Any offense defined and prohibited by the Cannabis Control
Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
(n)   Any inchoate offense defined and prohibited by Article 8 (Inchoate Offense) of
the Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/8-1, et seq. which is relative to the
commission of any of the aforesaid principal offenses.
 
   (H)   The Building Commissioner shall provide, at no cost samples of the
crime-free lease provision/addendum and shall review any clauses within actual
leases with the village’s Prosecuting Attorney to determine if the clause is
similar to the crime-free lease provision/addendum. The clause is to make
criminal activity (not limited to violent criminal activity or drug related
criminal activity engaged by, facilitated by or permitted by the renter, member
of the household, guest or other party under the control of the renter) a lease
violation. The landlord shall have the authority under the clause to initiate
an eviction proceeding as specified in the state’s Compiled Statutes Forcible
Entry and Detainer Statutes. Proof of criminal violation shall be by the
preponderance of the evidence.
(Ord. 07-417, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 123.009 CIVIL ACTION BY VILLAGE TO ENFORCE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police or the Chief of Police’s designee has
reasonable cause to believe that any landlord or tenant is engaged in a pattern
or practice of violating the provisions of this subchapter, the landlord’s
operating license has been suspended, the village, in addition to all other
remedies provided herein, may bring a civil action by filing a complaint signed
by the Chief of Police, setting forth the facts pertaining to such cause and
shall have a right to one or more of the following: a permanent or temporary
injunction; restraining order; the appointment of a receiver; the damages as
hereinbefore provided.
   (B)   Such relief may be obtained against the landlord or tenant responsible
and shall be as is necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter and the full enjoyment of the rights herein established.
   (C)   Before filing a complaint in court with respect to a violation of this
subchapter, the Building Commissioner shall notify the offending tenant,
landlord, operating licensee or other property designated to received notices
and service of process on behalf of such landlord or licensee requesting
compliance.
(Ord. 07-417, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 123.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to any other remedy or penalty specified for a
violation of any particular provision of §§
123.001 through
123.009 of this chapter, any person found to be in violation shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $200, nor more than $1,500, for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed to be committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   Nothing in §§
123.001 through
123.009 of this chapter shall prevent the village from taking any action
available under this code or any other application regulation. Further, nothing
in §§
123.001 through
123.009 of this chapter shall prevent the village from taking any emergency
action permitted by law when any portion of a rental unit and/or multiple
dwelling residential rental structure is a danger to person or property.
(Ord. 07-417, passed 10-1-2007)
CHAPTER 124: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
Telecommunication Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
   
124.001   Definitions
   
124.002   Registration of telecommunications providers
   
124.003   Maintenance fee; tax
   
124.004   Collection, enforcement and administration of fees
   
124.005   Compliance with other laws
   
124.006   Existing franchises and licenses
   
124.007   Enforcement
 
   
124.999   Penalty
TELECOMMUNICATION INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
§ 124.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES.
      (1)   The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the village and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-office channel
provided within the village.
      (2)   However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
         (a)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
under:
            1.   The fee imposed by this section;
            2.   Additional charges added to a purchaser’s bill under §§ 9-221
or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/9-221 or 5/9-222 as now
or hereafter amended;
            3.   Amounts collected under § 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal
Code, being 720 ILCS 5/11-14.3 as now or hereafter amended;
            4.   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act,
being 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended;
            5.   9-1-1 surcharges; or
            6.   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code, being
26 U.S.C. § 4251 as now or hereafter amended.
         (b)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside
the village;
         (c)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
         (d)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
         (e)   Charges to business enterprises certified under § 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1 as now or hereafter amended, to
the extent of such exemption and during the period of time specified by the
village;
         (f)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the general profit other than a regulatory required profit
for the corporation rendering such services;
         (g)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
         (h)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated
telecommunications devices; and
         (i)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the village.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any municipal street, alley, water or public right-of-
way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right-of-way.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THE STATE. Any retailer having
or maintaining within the state, directly or by a subsidiary, an office,
distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse or
other place of business, or any agent or other representative operating within
the state under the authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective
of whether such place of business or agent or other representative is located
here permanently or temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is
licensed to do business in the state.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation, to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the customer’s
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the location in
the state where bills are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include wireless telecommunications as
hereinafter defined. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following) as now or
hereafter amended or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the village through an open video system as defined
in the rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. § 76.1550 and
following) as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER.
      (1)   Any telecommunications retailer; and
      (2)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER or RETAILER or CARRIER. Every person engaged in
the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined in this
section. The village may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within the state, who, to the satisfaction of
the village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the village.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services, as defined in § 704(C) of the Telecommunications
Act of 1996 (Pub. Law No. 104-104), 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7), as now or hereafter
amended, including all commercial mobile radio services and paging services.
(Ord. 97-351, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 124.002 REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider as defined by this subchapter shall
register with the village within 30 days after the effective date of this
subchapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a
form to be provided by the village; provided, however, that, any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to §
124.004 of this chapter, shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with
this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant to §
124.004(A) of this chapter has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required by §
124.004(C) of this chapter, as the case may be, to the village within 30 days
from the date of the occurrence of any changes in the information provided by
the telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return
on file with the village.
(Ord. 97-351, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 124.003 MAINTENANCE FEE; TAX.
   (A)   (1)   A village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is
hereby imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 1% of all
gross charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service addresses
within the village for telecommunications originating or received in the
village.
      (2)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this subchapter, the village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights-of-way within the village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this subchapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
      (3)   The village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this subchapter shall be collected, enforced and administered as
set forth in §
124.004 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax permitted under the
provisions of §§ 5-25 and 5-30 of the Simplified Municipal Telecommunications
Tax Act, 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq., is increased from 5% to 6% effective 1-1-
2018.
(Ord. 97-351, passed 12-15-1997; Ord. 17-006, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 124.004 COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF FEES.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer’s service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the Village Clerk the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that, the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the
village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for
expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the Village Clerk, which
shall contain such information as the Village Clerk may reasonably require.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this subchapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by
such telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the village. The charge imposed under division
(A) above by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this subchapter shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether
as a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this subchapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, however, the Village Clerk may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit. However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless:
      (1)   The credit is used only to offset a claim of underpayment made by
the village within the applicable statutory period of limitations; and
      (2)   The credit derives from an overpayment made by the same
telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period of
limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this subchapter by telecommunications retailers
shall not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as
described immediately below:
      (1)   “Gross charges” for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act, being 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended;
      (2)   “Gross receipts” for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in § 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-
2 as now or hereafter amended;
      (3)   “Gross charges” for purposes of the municipal telecommunications
tax as prescribed in § 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code; and
      (4)   “Gross revenue” for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in § 2-202 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220
ILCS 5/2-202 as now or hereafter amended.
   (G)   (1)   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit
the books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this
subchapter to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly
accounted to the village for the village infrastructure maintenance fee.
      (2)   Any underpayment of the amount of the village infrastructure
maintenance fee due to the village by the telecommunications retailer shall be
paid to the village, plus 5% of the total amount of the underpayment determined
in an audit, plus any costs incurred by the village in conducting the audit, in
an amount not to exceed 5% of the total amount of the underpayment determined
in an audit.
      (3)   Said sum shall be paid to the village within 21 days after the date
of issuance of an invoice for same.
   (H)   The Village Clerk, or his or her designee, may promulgate such further
or additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to
time and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered
pursuant to §
124.002 of this chapter.
(Ord. 97-351, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 124.005 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall excuse any person or entity from
obligations imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes;
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under or within, use of or repair
of the public rights-of- way, including standards relating to free standing
towers and other structures upon the public rights-of- way, as provided;
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under or within,
use of or repair of the public rights-of-way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning
uses or structures not located on, over or within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 97-351, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 124.006 EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES.
   Any franchise, license or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
subchapter regarding the use of public rights-of-way shall remain valid
according to and for their stated terms, except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived.
(Ord. 97-351, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 124.007 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 97-351, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 124.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of §§
124.001 through
124.007 of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 97-351, passed 12-15-1997)
CHAPTER 125: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
125.001   Purpose and intent
   
125.002   Definitions
   
125.003   Compliance with applicable laws
   
125.004   Certificate of zoning compliance/state license
   
125.005   Special use
   
125.006   Permitted locations for cannabis business establishments
Use Standards/Regulations
   
125.020   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization
   
125.021   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization with a cannabis
consumption lounge/café
   
125.022   Medical cannabis dispensing organization
   
125.023   Adult-use cannabis craft grower
   
125.024   Adult-use cannabis cultivation centers
   
125.025   Medical cultivation center
   
125.026   Adult-use cannabis infuser organizations
   
125.027   Adult-use cannabis processing organization
   
125.028   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization
   
125.029   Co-location of cannabis business establishments
   
125.030   Parking requirements
   
125.031   Exterior display, signage and advertising
   
125.032   Other development restrictions
Cross-reference:
   Driving under the influence of drugs, see §
70.006
   Offenses involving cannabis, see §
136.001
   Offenses concerning intoxicants generally, see
Ch. 136
   Parental responsibility for possession of cannabis by a minor, see §
134.016
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 125.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter is intended to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the village and its residents by establishing regulations in regard
to the cultivation, processing, dispensing and transportation of adult-use
cannabis and medical cannabis within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure new cannabis business
establishments are integrated with surrounding uses and are compatible in
character with the surrounding neighborhood or area of the zoning district in
which they are located.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 125.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. Additionally, the
village adopts all other definitions set forth in the Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act and the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as if fully
set forth herein.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the state’s Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis, and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization as set forth in the Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1 et seq., and as it may be amended from time to time,
and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The facility must contain a minimum
of 3,000 square feet, but no more than 14,000 square feet, of cultivation
space.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products and usable medical cannabis
to licensed cannabis business establishments as set forth in the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1 et seq., and as it may be amended from
time to time, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The facility shall
contain no more than 210,000 square feet of cultivation space.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers as set forth in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/
1 et seq., and as it may be amended from time to time, and the regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION or INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product as set forth in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1 et seq., and as it may be
amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION or PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds, to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product as set forth in the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1 et seq., and as it may be amended from
time to time, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION or TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a candidate business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, as set forth in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
410 ILCS 705/1 et seq., and as it may be amended from time to time, and the
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADVERTISE. To engage in promotional activities including, but not limited
to: newspaper, radio, internet and electronic media, and television
advertising; the distribution of fliers and circulars; and the display of
window and interior signs.
   CANNABIS. Marijuana, hashish and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives, or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol derivatives, whether
produced directly or indirectly by extraction; however, CANNABIS does not
include the mature stalks of the plants fiver produced from the stalks, oil or
cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stalks (except resin extracted
from it), fiber, oil or cake or the sterilized seed of the plant that is
incapable of germination. CANNABIS also means concentrate and cannabis- infused
products.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation, center, craft grower,
processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization, a
medical cannabis dispensing organization or a medical cannabis cultivation
center.
   CANNABIS CONSUMPTION LOUNGE/CAFÉ. A designated area on the premises of an
adult-use cannabis dispensary where customers may consume cannabis or cannabis-
infuse products.
   CONSUME, CONSUMING or CONSUMPTION. Smoking, eating, drinking, chewing,
applying topically or otherwise ingesting.
   ENCLOSED LOCKED FACILITY. A room, greenhouse, building or other enclosed
area equipped with, locks or other security devices that permit access only by
agents of a licensed cannabis business establishment and acting pursuant to
state law.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is registered by the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation to acquire medical cannabis from a registered
cultivation center for the purpose of dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia or
related supplies and educational materials to registered qualifying patients,
individuals with a provisional registration for qualifying patient cardholder
status, or an Opiod Alternative Pilot program participant as set forth in the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et eq., and
as it may be amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   MEDICAL CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is registered by the Department of Agriculture to perform
necessary activities to provide only registered medical cannabis dispensing
organizations with usable medical cannabis as set forth in the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., and as it may be
amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
   STATE LAW or STATUTE. The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1 et
seq., and the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/
1 et seq., and as they may be amended from time to time, and the regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   UNDERAGE PERSON. Any person less than 21 years of age.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 125.003 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS.
   (A)   Cannabis business establishments shall comply with all regulations
provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1 et seq., and
the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.,
and as they may be amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated
thereunder, and the regulations provided below.
   (B)   In the event that either or both of the Acts are amended, the more
restrictive of the state or local regulations shall apply; however, in the
event the local regulations conflict with state law, state law shall prevail.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 125.004 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE/STATE LAW.
   A village-issued certificate of zoning compliance, a state-issued license
for the specific cannabis business, and a village-issued business license are
required prior to any cannabis business establishment is allowed to open for
business.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 125.005 SPECIAL USE.
   A cannabis business establishment shall be permitted only as a special use
in the locations set forth below. In determining whether the special use will
be approved, the applicant shall be required to submit plans and documents
(collectively “facility components”) deemed necessary by the village,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Plat of survey;
   (B)   Site plan;
   (C)   Engineering plan;
   (D)   Architectural plans and elevations;
   (E)   Building material samples;
   (F)   Lighting plan;
   (G)   Signage plan;
   (H)   Business and operational plan;
   (I)   Parking plan and traffic study;
   (J)   Impact on surrounding areas;
   (K)   Security plan/installations to be reviewed and approved by the Chief
of Police, or his or her designee, for the adequacy of lighting, security and
video surveillance. The security plan shall include, but is not limited to, the
following.
      (1)   The cannabis business establishment shall be enclosed, locked,
facility and shall provide and maintain adequate security on the premises,
including lighting, video surveillance and alarms reasonably designed to ensure
the safety of persons and to protect the premises from theft.
      (2)   The parking area, client entrance, sales area, back room, storage
areas and delivery and loading bay and entrance shall be monitored by video
surveillance equipment with live images that can be viewed by agents of the
cannabis business establishment, continually recorded in a tamper proof format.
      (3)   A sign shall be posted in a prominent location which includes the
following language: “This area is under live/recorded video surveillance to aid
in the prosecution .of any crimes committed against this facility or its
patrons.”; and
      (4)   A process for reporting criminal activity on the licensed premises
to local law enforcement officials.
   (L)   Proof of compliance with state law; and
   (M)   Other criteria deemed necessary to assess compliance with this
chapter.
      (1)   For an adult-use cannabis dispensary, with or without a cannabis
consumption lounge/café, an “operation plan” shall include, but is not limited
to the following information:
         (a)   A floor plan, including where the sale of cannabis shall take
place in the establishment and where the designated area for storage and
delivery shall be:
            1.   If a cannabis consumption lounge/café is proposed, the floor
plan shall also include where the lounge shall be located and where the
entrance/exit from the dispensary to the lounge area shall be located. The
lounge shall not have a separate entrance to and from the outside; and
            2.   If a cannabis consumption lounge/café is proposed, an air
quality/ventilation plan that, provides for the operation of an air
purification system that is adequate to remove from the ambient air any smoke
or vapor than contains THC compounds so as to mitigate the impact of those
compounds on employees and customers of the dispensary. Adequate ventilation
does not mean that doors and/or windows are left open for such purpose
resulting in odor emission from the premises. The ventilation plan must include
a description of the operations and maintenance plan for the system and a
method for recordkeeping to ensure said plan is followed.
         (b)   The types of cannabis that will be offered for sale and the
hours of service and method of packaging and delivery to customers;
         (c)   The location for the checking of identification to determine the
customer’s age;
         (d)   The location of medical purchases; and
         (e)   A plan, for disposal of cannabis or by products that are not
sold in a manner that protects any portion thereof from being possessed or
ingested by any person or animal and that abides by applicable state and/or
local regulations.
      (2)   (a)   For co-location of cannabis business establishments, each
separate business must submit plans and documents, and include the location of
its vault, required in this section for review.
         (b)   Additionally, each business must store its currency, cannabis or
cannabis-infused products in a separate secured vault.
         (c)   Where the licensees share more than 50% of the same ownership in
said businesses, the businesses may share a vault.
      (3)   For transporting organization, petitioner is required to submit a
loading, transporting and unloading plan for review and approval by the
village.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 125.006 PERMITTED LOCATIONS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Adult-use and medical cannabis dispensing organizations shall be
permitted only as a special use along Sibley Boulevard, as shown on Exhibit 1
to the ordinance codified herein.
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis dispensaries with a cannabis consumption lounge/
café shall be permitted only as a special use along Sibley Boulevard as shown
on Exhibit 1 to the ordinance codified herein.
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis craft growers, cultivation centers, infuser
organizations, processing organizations, and transportation organizations shall
be permitted only as a special use in the following locations:
      (1)   Commercial zoning districts; and
      (2)   Manufacturing zoning districts.
   (D)   The only cannabis business establishments that may co-locate are an
adult-use cannabis dispensing organization with an adult-use: cannabis craft
grower or an adult-use cannabis infuser organization, or both. Co-located
cannabis business establishments shall only be permitted as a special use in
commercial and manufacturing districts.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020)
USE STANDARDS/REGULATIONS
§ 125.020 ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION.
   In the areas in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
   (A)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool or secondary
school, day care center, day care, home or residential care home. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of a place of worship,
park/playground, library or a games arcade establishment or recreation center
or facility to which admission is not restricted to persons 21 years or older.
   (C)   The facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within a
residential zoning district.
   (D)   The facility may not be within 1,500 feet of a pre-existing dispensing
facility.
   (E)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by state statute.
   (F)   No dispensing organization shall sell food for consumption on the
premises, except as authorized by §
125.021 of this chapter, in the same tenant space.
   (G)   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by state statute.
   (H)   The hours of operation of an adult-use dispensing facility are between
6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (I)   A minimum of two employees must be working at the dispensary at all
times it is open.
   (J)   All site lighting and inside the dispensary building must be provided
and kept in good working order and of sufficient wattage for security cameras
and the safety of customers and employees.
   (K)   All product storage, display and sales must be conducted inside an
enclosed building. Drive- through facilities are prohibited.
   (L)   Cannabis products shall be sold at retail at the dispensary, but are
prohibited from being cultivated, processed or manufactured within the
dispensary.
   (M)   The petitioner shall file an affidavit, provided by the village, with
the village affirming compliance with the village’s regulations regarding the
facility components set forth in §
125.05 of this chapter, adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations and all
other requirements of the Act.
   (N)   The facility shall comply with the zoning requirements set forth in
the Zoning Code for the zoning district, in which it is located.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.021 ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION WITH A CANNABIS
CONSUMPTION LOUNGE/CAFÉ.
   (A)   General standards. In the areas in which an adult-use cannabis
dispensing organization with a cannabis consumption lounge/café may be located,
the proposed, facility must comply with the following.
      (1)   The facility must be located in a free-standing building.
      (2)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool or secondary
school, day care center, day care home or residential care home. Learning,
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
      (3)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of a place of
worship, park/playground, library or a games arcade establishment or recreation
center or facility to which admission is not restricted to persons 21 years, or
older.
      (4)   The facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within a
residential zoning district.
      (5)   The facility may not be within 1,500 feet of a pre-existing,
dispensing facility.
      (6)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by state statute.
      (7)   Cannabis-infused food may be sold for consumption on the premises
to customers who consume said cannabis-infused food in the adjoining cannabis
lounge/café.
      (8)   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by state statute.
      (9)   The hours of operation of an adult-use dispensing facility are
between 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      (10)   A minimum of two employees must be working at the dispensary at
all times it is open.
      (11)   All site lighting and inside the dispensary building must be
provided and kept in good working order and of sufficient wattage for security
cameras and the safety of customers and employees.
      (12)   All product storage, display and sales must be conducted inside an
enclosed building. Drive-through facilities are prohibited.
      (13)   Cannabis products shah be sold at retail at the dispensary, but
are prohibited from being cultivated, processed or manufactured within the
dispensary.
      (14)   The petitioner shall file an affidavit, provided by the village,
with the village affirming compliance with the village’s regulations regarding
facility components set forth in §
125.005 of this chapter, adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations and all
other requirements of the Act.
      (15)   The facility shall comply with the zoning requirements set forth
in the Zoning Code for the zoning district in which it is located.
   (B)   Required standards for the cannabis consumption lounge/café. In
addition to the above listed standards, the designated area for the cannabis
consumption lounge/café must comply with the following.
      (1)   The designated cannabis consumption lounge must be located in a
iron-work area where employees are not required to enter the designated area as
a condition of their employment.
      (2)   The designated cannabis consumption lounge shall have signage to
designate the said lounge, which signage and its location(s) shall be subject
to prior approval by the village.
      (3)   The designated cannabis consumption lounge shall have a separate
heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) system such that none of the
air in the lounge will be recirculated into other parts of the cannabis
business premises.
      (4)   The designated cannabis consumption lounge shall exhaust 100% of
the air directly to the outside through pollution and odor control writs that,
at a minimum, eliminates all detectable odor, smoke and by-product of
combustion so as to prevent any and all public nuisances.
      (5)   The designated cannabis consumption lounge shall be completely
separated from the remainder of the premises by solid partitions or glazing
without openings other than doors and all doors leading to the designated
cannabis consumption lounge must be self-closing.
      (6)   The designated cannabis consumption lounge shall not be directly
accessible from the primary outside entrance to the dispensary and may not be
visible from the fronting street or store front. The cannabis consumption
lounge must be contained within the existing licensed dispensary.
      (7)   The hours of operation shall be the same as the adjoining
dispensary.
      (8)   There must be at least one employee working in the designated
cannabis consumption lounge at all times that it is open.
      (9)   Cannabis and cannabis-infused products shall not be sold or
distributed in the designated cannabis consumption lounge.
      (10)   Only cannabis and/or cannabis-in fused products purchased in the
adjoining dispensary may be used or consumed in the designated cannabis
consumption lounge.
      (11)   A restroom, with hand-washing facilities that can be used by the
customers, shall be provided.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.022 MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   A special use permit shall be required for a medical cannabis
dispensing organization to operate within the village’s corporate limits. This
section pertains to the operation of a facility that only dispenses medical-
related cannabis and cannabis-related products.
   (B)   In the areas in which a medical cannabis dispensing organization may
be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
      (1)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool or secondary
school, day care center, day care home or residential care home. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of a place of
worship, park/playground, library or a games arcade establishment or recreation
center or facility to which admission is not restricted to persons 21 years or
older.
      (3)   The facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within a
residential zoning district.
      (4)   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of medical
cannabis other than as authorized by state statute.
      (5)   The hours of operation of a medical cannabis facility may be
between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      (6)   A minimum of two employees must be working at the dispensary at all
times it is open.
      (7)   All site lighting and inside the dispensary building must be
provided and kept in good working order and of sufficient wattage for security
cameras and the safety of customers and employees.
      (8)   All product storage, display and sales must be conducted inside an
enclosed building. Drive-through facilities are prohibited.
      (9)   Medical cannabis products shall be sold at retail at the
dispensary, but are prohibited from being cultivated, processed or manufactured
within the dispensary.
      (10)   Verification that the proposed facility complies with the required
spacing and location requirements of state law.
      (11)   The petitioner shall file an affidavit, provided by the village,
with the village affirming compliance with the facility components’ set forth
in §
125.005 of this chapter, medical cannabis dispensing organizations and all
other requirements of the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act.
      (12)   The facility shall comply with the zoning requirements set forth
in the Zoning Code for the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.023 ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER.
   In the areas in which an adult-use cannabis craft grower may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following.
   (A)   (1)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool or secondary
school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
      (2)   Learning centers and trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of a place of worship,
park/playground, library or a games arcade establishment or recreation center
or facility to which admission is not restricted to persons 21 years or older.
   (C)   The facility may not be located within a residential zoning district.
   (D)   The facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of another craft
grower or cultivation center.
   (E)   The facility must be in an enclosed, locked space.
   (F)   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by state law.
   (G)   The petitioner shall file an affidavit, provided by the village, with
the village affirming compliance with the village’s regulations regarding the
facility components set forth in §
125.005 of this chapter, adult-use cannabis craft growers and all other
requirements of the Act.
   (H)   The facility shall comply with the zoning requirements set forth in
the Zoning Code for the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.024 ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTERS.
   In the areas in which an adult-use cannabis cultivation center may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
   (A)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool or secondary
school, day care center, day care home or residential care home. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of a place of worship,
park/playground, library or a games arcade establishment or recreation center
or facility to which admission is not restricted to persons 21 years or older.
   (C)   The facility may trot be located within residential zoning district.
   (D)   The facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of another
cultivation center or a craft grower.
   (E)   The facility must be in ah enclosed, locked space.
   (F)   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by state law.
   (G)   A facility shall not transport cannabis to a licensed craft grower,
dispensing organization, infuser organization or a laboratory unless it has
obtained a transporting organization license.
   (H)   The petitioner shall file an affidavit, provided by the village, with
the village affirming compliance with the village’s regulations regarding the
facility components set forth in §
125.005 of this chapter, adult-use cannabis cultivation centers and all other
requirements of the Act.
   (I)   The facility shall comply with the zoning requirements set forth in
the Zoning Code for the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.025 MEDICAL CULTIVATION CENTER.
   (A)   A special use permit shall be required for a medical cultivation
center to operate within the village’s corporate limits. This section pertains
to the operation of a facility that only cultivates medical cannabis.
   (B)   In the areas in which a medical cultivation center may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following.
      (1)   The facility may not be located within 2,500 feet of the property
line of a preexisting public or private preschool or elementary or secondary
school or day care center, day care home, group day care home, part day child
care facility or an area zoned for residential use.
      (2)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of a place of
worship, park/playground, library or a games arcade establishment or recreation
center or facility to which admission is not restricted to persons 21 years or
older.
      (3)   The facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of another
cultivation center or a craft grower.
      (4)   The facility must be in an enclosed, locked space.
      (5)   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by state law.
      (6)   A facility shall not transport cannabis, to a licensed craft
grower, dispensing organization, infuser organization or a laboratory unless it
has obtained a transporting organization license.
      (7)   The petitioner shall file an affidavit provided by the village,
with the village affirming compliance with the village’s regulations regarding
the facility components set forth in §
125.005 of this chapter, medical cultivation centers and all other requirements
of the Act.
      (8)   The facility shall comply with the zoning requirements set forth in
the Zoning Code for the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.026 ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATIONS.
   In the areas in which an adult-use cannabis cultivation center may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
   (A)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool or secondary
school, day care center, day care home or residential care home. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private, school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of a place of worship,
park/playground, library, or a games arcade establishment or recreation center
or facility to which admission is not restricted to persons 21 years or older.
   (C)   The facility may not be located a residential zoning district.
   (D)   The facility must be in an enclosed, locked space.
   (E)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by an
infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the infusing
organization as authorized by state statute.
   (F)   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by state law.
   (G)   The petitioner shall file an affidavit, provided by the village, with
the village affirming compliance with the village’s regulations regarding the
facility components set forth in §
125.005 of this chapter, adult-use cannabis infuser organizations and all other
requirements of the Act.
   (H)   The facility shall comply with the zoning requirements set forth in
the Zoning Code for the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.027 ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION.
   In the areas in which an adult-use cannabis processing organizations may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
   (A)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool or secondary
school, day care center, day care home or residential care home. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of a place of worship,
park/playground, library or a games arcade establishment or recreation center
or facility to which admission is not restricted to persons 21 years or older.
   (C)   The facility may not be located in a residential zoning district.
   (D)   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by state law.
   (E)   The petitioner shall file an affidavit, provided by the village, with
the village affirming compliance with the village’s regulations regarding the
facility components set forth in §
125.005 of this chapter, adult-use cannabis processing organizations and all
other requirements of the Act.
   (F)   The facility shall comply with the zoning requirements set forth in
the Zoning Code for the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.028 ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION.
   In the areas in which an adult-use cannabis transporting organizations may
be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
   (A)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of the. property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool or secondary
school, day care center, day care home or residential care home. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   The facility may not be located within 200 feet of a place of worship,
park/playground, library or a games arcade establishment or recreation center
or facility to which admission is not restricted to persons 21 years or older.
   (C)   The facility may not be located within a residential zoning district.
   (D)   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant
space in which it is located.
   (E)   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by state law.
   (F)   The petitioner shall file an affidavit, provided by the village, with
the village affirming compliance with the village’s regulations regarding the
facility components set forth in §
125.005 of this chapter, adult-use cannabis transporting organizations and all
other, requirements of the Act.
   (G)   The facility shall comply with the zoning requirements set forth in
the Zoning Code for the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.029 CO-LOCATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   The village may approve the co-location of an adult-use cannabis
dispensing organization with an adult-use cannabis craft grower center or an
adult-use cannabis infuser organization, or both as a special use in a location
approved for said uses as set forth in §
125.006 of this chapter, subject to the provisions of state law and the
criteria set forth for each individual cannabis business set forth in §§
125.020,
125.023 and
125.026 of this chapter.
   (B)   Additionally, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
      (1)   A cannabis consumption lounge/café shall not be allowed in the
adult-use cannabis dispensary; and
      (2)   The floor space requirements set forth in §§
125.020(E) and 125.26(F) of this chapter.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.030 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The cannabis business establishment shall be required to comply with
the parking requirements applicable to the underlying zoning district unless
otherwise approved by the Village Board.
   (B)   Parking shall be located in an area which is visible from a public
road and must be accessed directly from a public street.
   (C)   Parking areas shall be well lit and monitored by video surveillance
equipment with live images that can be viewed by agents of the cannabis
business establishment and continually recorded in a tamper-proof format.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.031 EXTERIOR DISPLAY, SIGNAGE AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No cannabis business establishment shall be maintained or operated in
a manner that causes, creates or allows the public viewing of cannabis
paraphernalia or similar products from any sidewalk, right-of-way or any
property other than the lot on which the cannabis business establishment is
located. No portion of the exterior of the cannabis business establishment
shall use or contain any flashing lights, searchlights, spotlights or any
similar lighting system.
   (B)   Signage shall comply with the standards of the underlying zoning
district unless otherwise approved by the Village Board.
   (C)   No cannabis business establishment shall have signage or engage in
advertising that is not in compliance with slate law (410 ILCS 705/55-20),
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of school grounds, playgrounds, hospitals, health
care facilities, recreation centers, child care centers; public parks, public
libraries; or game arcades that admit persons under the age of 21;
      (2)   That promotes the over-consumption of cannabis;
      (3)   That displays cannabis;
      (4)   That shows someone under 21 consuming cannabis;
      (5)   That makes health or medicinal claims about cannabis;
      (6)   That includes any image of the cannabis leaf or bud;
      (7)   That includes any image that is likely to appeal to minors;
      (8)   On or in publicly-owned or publicly-operated property;
      (9)   On or in a public transportation vehicle or on a public
transportation shelter; and
      (10)   That is false or misleading.
   (D)   A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the cannabis
business establishment entrances that shall include the following language:
“Persons under the age of 21 are prohibited from entering.” The required text
shall be no smaller than one inch in height nor greater than 12 inches in
height.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 125.032 OTHER DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   General restrictions.
      (1)   No cannabis business establishment shall allow any person who is
not at least 21 years of age on the premises or employ anyone under the age of
21 years of age.
      (2)   A cannabis business establishment shall maintain compliance with
state, law and local building, fire and zoning requirements or regulations.
      (3)   No adult-use cannabis business shall operate in violation of the
operational requirements and prohibitions set forth in the section applicable
to its specific business in 410 ILCS 705/1 et seq., which are adopted and
incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein.
      (4)   No medical cannabis dispensary or cultivation center shall operate
in violation of the requirements and prohibitions, set forth in the section
applicable to its specific business in 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., which ate
adopted and incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein.
      (5)   Loitering is prohibited on the property or licensed premises of a
cannabis business establishment.
      (6)   No cannabis business establishment shall allow any person to smoke,
inhale or consume cannabis or cannabis products on the property and licensed
premises occupied by the cannabis business establishment unless it is a
licensed adult-use cannabis dispensary with a licensed cannabis lounge/café. A
sign, at least eight and one-half by 11 inches, shall be posted inside the
cannabis business establishment facility in a conspicuous place and visible to
employees and clients and shall include the following language: “Smoking,
eating, drinking or other forms of consumption of cannabis products on the
property is strictly prohibited.”
   (B)   Restrictions applicable to cannabis dispensaries. In addition to the
above enumerated general restrictions, the following restrictions shall apply
to a licensed cannabis dispensary.
      (1)   The sale of cannabis and cannabis products to individual at any
given time shall not exceed the following amounts:
         (a)   For an Illinois resident, who is 21 years or older:
            1.   Thirty grams of cannabis flower;
            2.   No more than 500 milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-
infused product; and
            3.   Five grams of cannabis concentrate.
         (b)   For a non-Illinois resident, who is 21 years or older:
            1.   Fifteen grams of cannabis flower;
            2.   Two and one-half grams of cannabis concentrate; and
            3.   Two hundred fifty milligrams of THC contained, in a cannabis-
infused product.
         (c)   The purchase limits set forth in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (B)(1)
(b) above are considered cumulative.
      (2)   No “delivery” service to any location.
      (3)   No drive-thru facilities.
      (4)   Dispensaries shall not enter into agreements to allow persons who
are not dispensing organization agents to deliver cannabis or transport
cannabis to purchasers.
      (5)   No cannabis odors shall be detectable outside the dispensary.
      (6)   Operation of the dispensary is prohibited when video surveillance
equipment is inoperative.
      (7)   Operation of the dispensary is prohibited when point-of-sale
equipment is inoperative.
      (8)   Operation of the dispensary is prohibited when the state’s cannabis
electronic verification system is inoperative.
      (9)   Operation of the dispensary is prohibited when there are fewer than
two employees working. No alcoholic products can be sold in the dispensary,
except tinctures, which must be limited to containers that are no larger than
100 milliliters.
      (10)   The cannabis and cannabis-infused products must be packaged and
labels with the name of the dispensing organization, the contents, the weight
of the raw cannabis (grams) or for cannabis products, the amount of THC (mg).
      (11)   The age of the purchaser shall be verified by checking a
government-issued identification card by use of an electronic reader or
electronic scanning device to scan the identification.
      (12)   Specific required sales information on each sale must be entered
into the state’s cannabis electronic verification system.
      (13)   The dispensary shall only accept cannabis deliveries into a
restrictive access area. Deliveries may not be accepted through the pubic or
limited access areas unless otherwise approved by state statute.
      (14)   Dispensaries shall, not sell cannabis, cannabis concentrate or
cannabis-infused products in combination of bundled with each other or any
other items for one price. Each item of cannabis, cannabis concentrate or
cannabis-infused products must be separately identified by quantity and price
on the receipt.
      (15)   Clones or other live plant material shall not be sold in
dispensaries.
      (16)   Dispensaries shall not allow the dispensing of cannabis or
cannabis-infused products in vending machines.
      (17)   Dispensaries shall not produce or manufacture cannabis.
      (18)   A dispensary shall not accept a cannabis product from a
cultivation center, craft grower, infuse, dispensing organization or
transporting organization unless it is prepackaged and labeled in accordance
with state statute and any rules that may be promulgated thereunder.
      (19)   A dispensary shall not obtain cannabis or cannabis-infused
products from any other state other than the State of Illinois.
      (20)   A dispensary shall hot sell medical cannabis or medical cannabis-
infused products to a purchaser unless the dispensary is licensed under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act and the purchaser is
registered under said Act.
   (C)   Restrictions applicable to cannabis consumption lounges/cafés. A
licensed cannabis consumption lounge/café shall comply with all of the
restrictions set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above. A cannabis consumption
lounge/café shall further comply with the following restrictions:
      (1)   A training plan, subject to approval by the village, by which
employees and principals will receive and successfully complete training
regarding the effects of cannabis, use, over consumption, safety standards and
sanitation standards, with such training to be provided by a properly licensed
provider capable of certifying the successful completion of training. The
curriculum must consist of not fewer than two hours of instruction and include,
without limitation, instruction on the following topics:
         (a)   The clinical effects of cannabis on the human body;
         (b)   Methods of identifying intoxicated persons;
         (c)   Relevant provisions of state law and village ordinances
concerning the selling and possession of cannabis;
         (d)   Proper sanitation with respect to the use of cannabis
paraphernalia and the consumption of edibles;
         (e)   Methods of preventing and halting fights and other disturbances
of the peace; and
         (f)   Methods of preventing the entry of underaged persons into the
cannabis consumption lounge/café.
      (2)   A fire safety plan, subject to approval by the village’s Fire
Department, designed to ensure the safety of employees, patrons and the public;
      (3)   Cannabis consumption shall not be visible from any public place or
any area on the premises other than in the cannabis consumption lounge/café;
      (4)   The cannabis consumption lounge/café is to be located in an area of
the premises where employees are not required to enter as a condition of their
employment unless such employee were hired to specifically work in the lounge/
café;
      (5)   The Operations and Maintenance Manual for the ventilation system
must be kept on-site and provided to all managers, building engineer and
building owners. The manual shall include:
         (a)   The approved ventilation system installed shall be properly
maintained and documented as stated in the operations and maintenance manual
following standard practices, and as specified by the manufacturer; and
         (b)   Documentation of the installation and/or maintenance of the
ventilation system shall be preserved for five years after installation or
maintenance.
      (6)   The cannabis consumption lounge/café must be vermin-proof and shall
be constructed and maintained so as to prevent the entrance and harborage of
vermin.
(Ord. 20-003, passed 3-2-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS AND DECENCY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
      
134.   OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
      
135.   OFFENSES CONCERNING WEAPONS
      
136.   OFFENSES CONCERNING INTOXICANTS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
130.001   Disorderly conduct
   
130.002   Assault and battery
   
130.003   Unlawful assemblies
   
130.004   Disturbing assemblies
   
130.005   Intoxication
   
130.006   Masking in public
   
130.007   Vagrancy
§ 130.001 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in disorderly conduct or
any conduct tending toward a breach of the peace. The causing or making of any
unnecessary loud noise and shouting or yelling shall be considered disorderly
conduct.
   (B)   A person also commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or
not conversation thereby ensues;
      (3)   Transmits in any manner to the fire department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is not reasonable ground for believing that
such fire exists;
      (4)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place;
      (5)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed; or
      (6)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 130.002 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   No person shall commit an assault or battery within the limits of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 130.003 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a member of any disorderly
crowd or any crowd gathered together for any unlawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 130.004 DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Schools and assemblies. No person shall willfully interrupt or disturb
any school or other assembly of people met for a lawful purpose.
   (B)   Religious worship. Any person who shall disquiet or disturb any
congregation or assembly met for religious worship by making a noise, or by
rude and indecent behavior or profane discourse within the place of worship, or
so near to the same as to disturb the order and solemnity of the meeting, shall
be fined in accordance with the penalty provided in this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 130.005 INTOXICATION.
   No person shall be drunk or in a state of intoxication in any street, alley
or other public place in the village, or in any private house or place, to the
disturbance of any person.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 130.006 MASKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to appear in public
in any mask, cap, cowl, hood or other thing concealing the identity of the
wearer; provided that, the provisions of this section shall not apply to
persons attending or taking part in carnivals, mask balls, public shows,
entertainments, or celebrations in the village, or under permission of the
proper authorities of the village, nor to any person holding a written permit
issued by the President.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 130.007 VAGRANCY.
   (A)   All persons who are idle and dissolute, or who go about begging; all
persons who use any shell game, sleight-of-hand or juggling trick, or other
unlawful game to cheat, defraud or unlawfully obtain money or other valuable
thing; pilferers; confidence men or women; common drunkards; common
nightwalkers, persons lewd, wanton or lascivious in speech or behavior; common
brawlers; persons who are habitually neglectful to their employment or their
calling and do not lawfully provide for themselves or for the support of their
families; and all persons who are idle or dissolute and who neglect all lawful
business and who habitually misspend their time by frequenting houses of ill
fame or gaming houses; all persons lodging in or found in the nighttime in
sheds, barns or unoccupied buildings or lodging in the open air and not giving
a good account of themselves; all persons who are known to be thieves, burglars
or pickpockets, either by their own confession or otherwise, or having been
convicted of larceny, burglary or other crime against the laws of the state
punishable by imprisonment in the state prison or in a house of correction of
any village, and having no lawful means of support, are habitually found
prowling around any railroad depot, banking institution, broker’s office, place
of public amusement, auction room, store, shop or crowded public way, public
conveyance or at any public gathering or assembly, or lounging about any
courtroom or private dwelling houses, or are found in any house of ill fame or
gambling house, are hereby declared to be vagrants and shall, upon conviction,
be fined in accordance with the penalty provided in this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found sleeping in any depot, store, theater, street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place in the village and who has no established
domicile or residence shall be considered a vagrant.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
Damage to Property Generally
   
131.001   Definitions
   
131.002   Spray can or marker; possession by underaged persons
   
131.003   Defacing of property or public ways
   
131.004   Trespasses; vandalism
   
131.005   Injuring or obstructing signal systems
   
131.006   Defacing, injuring houses of worship and cemeteries
   
131.007   Throwing missiles
   
131.008   Prohibited acts generally
Litter Control
   
131.020   Prohibited activity
   
131.021   Handbill distribution
   
131.022   Removal of litter; notice
   
131.023   Costs of removal; lien
 
   
131.999   Penalty
DAMAGE TO PROPERTY GENERALLY
§ 131.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ETCHING EQUIPMENT and ETCHING MATERIALS. Any tool, device, equipment or
substance that can be used to make permanent marks on metal, glass, plastic,
concrete or stone.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. A person appointed guardian of the person or given custody
of a minor by a circuit court of the state or any other state, but does not
include a person appointed guardian only of the estate of a minor or appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the state’s Juvenile Court Act,
being 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real estate, including improvements thereon and tangible
personalty.
   VANDALISM. The willful or malicious destruction, injury, disfigurement or
defacement of any public or private property including, but not limited to,
public buildings, sewers, water pipes, hydrants or other village property, or
any tree, grass, shrub or walk in any public way or public park. This offense
includes, but is not limited to, cutting, injuring, tearing, breaking, marking,
drawing, painting or defacing in any manner or form, when these actions are
intended to have the effect of causing damage to property.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4-5) (Ord. 93-234, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 131.002 SPRAY CAN OR MARKER; POSSESSION BY UNDERAGED PERSONS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 shall possess within the village any
paint in a spray can or any marker containing a fluid which is not water
soluble and has a point, brush, applicator or other writing surface of three-
eighths of an inch or greater. This prohibition shall not apply to:
      (1)   A child using paint or a marker while under the immediate
supervision of the child’s parent(s) or legal guardian;
      (2)   A student using paint or a marker while under the immediate
supervision of the student’s teacher; or
      (3)   An employee using paint or a marker at the direction and under the
supervision of the employee’s employer.
   (B)   No person shall aid, assist or abet a person under the age of 18 in
obtaining possession of paint in a spray can or any marker containing a fluid
which is not water soluble and has a point, brush, applicator or other writing
surface of three-eighths of an inch or greater. This prohibition shall not
apply to:
      (1)   A parent or legal guardian assisting and supervising his or her own
child or ward in the use of paint or a marker;
      (2)   A teacher assisting and supervising his or her students in the use
of paint or a marker; or
      (3)   An employer assisting and supervising his or her employee in the
use of paint or a marker.
   (C)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ETCHING MATERIALS. Any acid or like substance used to cut, bite,
corrode or engrave on metal, glass, plastic, concrete or stone.
         RETAIL. Sales other than those for the purpose of resale or for use by
manufacturers, contractors, trades, railroads, public service corporations and
institutions, or for the supplying of branch or general establishments from a
central depot or store, and shall not include the sale at retail of secondhand
or used goods, wares or commodities.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a retail business
license to sell paint in spray cans or etching materials to any person or to
sell any marker containing a fluid which is not water soluble and has a point,
brush, applicator or other writing surface of three-eighths of an inch or
greater to any person.
(Ord. 93-234, passed 12-7-1993; Ord. 05-031, passed 9-6-2005) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.003 DEFACEMENT OF PROPERTY OR PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a spray paint
container, liquid paint or any marker containing a fluid which is not water
soluble and has a point, brush, applicator or other writing surface of three-
eighths of an inch or greater, on the property of another in any public
building or upon any public facility. It shall be a defense to an action for
violation of this section that the owner, manager or other person having
control of the property, building or facility consented to the presence of the
paint or marker.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a spray paint
container, liquid paint or any marker containing a fluid which is not water
soluble and has a point, brush, applicator or other writing surface of three-
eighths of an inch or greater, or any etching equipment or any etching
materials, on the public way with intent to use the same to deface any
building, structure or property.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4-1) (Ord. 93-234, passed 12-7-1993) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.004 TRESPASSES; VANDALISM.
   (A)   Trespasses prohibited. No person shall enter into or upon any lot,
block or tract of ground in the village which is under cultivation, or which is
improved with a building used for dwelling, business, commercial or other
allied use, unless such person be an owner, lessee or person entitled so to
enter, or the duly authorized agent thereof, and any person found by the police
in and upon any such premises shall be treated as a trespasser unless he or she
can produce satisfactory evidence of ownership or right to be in and upon any
such premises.
   (B)   Trespasses to property; vandalism.
      (1)   Acts of vandalism resulting in damage to real or personal property
within the village have increased, posing a threat to the value of property and
the welfare of residents.
      (2)   It is in the best interests of the village that such acts be
prosecuted by the village as a local offense, that penalties therefor be
imposed which are related to the nature of the act and the type of offender,
and that parents or legal guardians or minors found guilty of such acts be held
responsible for any monetary penalty or order of restitution or reparation
imposed.
      (3)   The diligent pursuit of such interests will tend to increase
parental supervision of minors and reduce the incidence of juvenile vandalism,
thus advancing the welfare of residents of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4-5) (Ord. 93-234, passed 12-7-1993) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.005 INJURING OR OBSTRUCTING SIGNAL SYSTEMS.
   No person, unless duly authorized, shall open any signal box unless it be to
give an alarm of fire or to communicate with the police on necessary business,
nor break, cut, injure, deface, derange or in any manner meddle or interfere
with any signal box or the firm alarm or police telegraph wires, or with any
municipal electric wires, poles, conduits or apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4-2) (Ord. 93-234, passed 12-7-1993) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.006 DEFACING, INJURING HOUSES OF WORSHIP AND CEMETERIES.
   Any person who willfully defaces, mars, injures, destroys or removes any
vault, tomb, monument, gravestone, memorial of the dead, church or synagogue or
any other structure constituting a place of worship of any religion, sect or
group, or any part of any contents thereof, or any fence, tree, shrub or plant
appurtenant thereto, shall be fined in accordance with the penalty provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4-3) (Ord. 93-234, passed 12-7-1993) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.007 THROWING MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw, propel or deposit any missile, glass,
nails, tacks or other similar articles on any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public place in the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4-4) (Ord. 93-234, passed 12-7-1993) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.008 PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY.
   Within the corporate limits of the village, no person shall:
   (A)   Knowingly or recklessly damage any property of another person without
his or her consent; or
   (B)   Knowingly and without authority enter into or obtain control over any
other person without his or her consent.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4-5) (Ord. 93-234, passed 12-7-1993) Penalty, see §
131.999
LITTER CONTROL
§ 131.020 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Public property. No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon
any street, sidewalk or other public place within the village, except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection or in official
village dumps.
      (2)   Private property. The owner or person in control of any private
property shall at all times maintain the premises free of litter; provided,
however, that, this division (A)(2) shall not prohibit the storage of litter in
authorized private receptacles for collection.
   (B)   Sweeping litter into streets. No person shall sweep into or deposit in
any gutter, street or other public place within the village the accumulation of
litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or
driveway.
   (C)   Spilling loads; mud and dirt from tires. No person shall drive or move
any truck or other vehicle within the village unless such vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being
blown or deposited upon any other public place; nor shall any person drive or
move any vehicle or truck within the village, the wheels or tires of which
carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
   (D)   Vacant lots. No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or
vacant private property within the village whether owned by such person or not.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-1) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.021 HANDBILL DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or non-commercial
handbill in or upon:
      (1)   Any public place within the village, nor shall any person hand out
or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place; provided,
however, that, it shall not be unlawful on any public place within the village
for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver
thereof, any non-commercial handbill to any person willing to accept it;
      (2)   Any vehicle; provided, however, that, it shall not be unlawful in
any public place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the
receiver thereof, a non-commercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is
willing to accept it; and
      (3)   Any private premises which are temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant.
   (B)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or non-
commercial handbill upon any private premises if requested by anyone thereon
not to do so or if there is placed on said premises, in a conspicuous position
near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: “No Trespassing”, “No
Peddlers or Agents”, “No Advertisement” or any similar notice indicating in any
manner that the occupants of said premises do not desire to be molested or have
their right of privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon such
premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-2) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.022 REMOVAL OF LITTER; NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice to remove. The Health Inspector is hereby authorized and
empowered to notify the owner of any open or vacant private property within the
village, or his or her agent to properly dispose of litter located on such
owner’s property which is dangerous to public health, safety or welfare. Such
notice shall be by registered mail, addressed to said owner or his or her agent
at his or her last known address. Service may also be made personally on the
owner or agent.
   (B)   Failure to remove. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner
or agent so notified to properly dispose of litter dangerous to the public
health, safety or welfare within ten days after receipt of written notice
provided in division (A) above, or within ten days after the date of such
notice in the event the same is returned to the Post Office Department because
of its inability to make delivery thereof, the Health Inspector is hereby
authorized and empowered to pay for the disposing of such litter or to order
its disposal by the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-3)
§ 131.023 COSTS OF REMOVAL; LIEN.
   (A)   Costs to owner. When the village has effected the removal of such
dangerous litter or has paid for its removal, the actual cost thereof, plus
accrued interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of the completion of
the work, if not paid by such owner prior thereto, shall be charged to the
owner of such property and said charge shall be due and payable by said owner.
   (B)   Unpaid costs a lien. Where the full amount due the village is not paid
by such owner within 30 days after the disposal of such litter, as provided for
in §
131.022 of this chapter, then, and in that case, the Health Committee
Chairperson shall cause to be recorded in the Recorder’s office a sworn
statement showing the cost and expense incurred for the work, the date the work
was done and the location of the property on which said work was done. The
recordation of such sworn statement shall constitute a lien and privilege on
the property, and shall remain in full force and effect for the amount due in
principal and interest, plus cost of court if any, for collection until final
payment has been made. Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the
provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have
been complied with and that the work has been done properly and satisfactorily,
and shall be full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the
statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated
or described in the statement and that the same is due and collectible as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-4)
§ 131.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
131.002(A) and (B) of this chapter, for which no other penalty is provided,
shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100, for each occurrence.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
131.002(C) of this chapter shall be fined as set forth in § 
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and every day that the violation shall
continue, after notice of the same, shall be held to constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
131.003 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500 for
each such offense.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   General fine. A fine of not less than $25, nor more than
$500, for each such offense shall be imposed concerning §§
131.005 through
131.008 of this chapter.
         (b)   Liability of parent or legal guardian of minor. The parent or
legal guardian of a minor defendant who resides with such parent or legal
guardian shall be liable for any fine or condition of restitution or reparation
imposed by a court upon a minor for violation of any section of §§
131.005 through
131.008 of this chapter; provided that, said minor has not paid said fine or
made restitution or reparation within the time ordered by the court; and,
further provided that, said parent or legal guardian has been served with
summons or notice to appear in the original cause and all proceedings
thereafter as provided by law.
      (2)   (a)   A period of conditional discharge concerning all penalties as
stated in all sections of §§
131.005 through
131.008 of this chapter not to exceed one year shall apply.
            1.   The conditions of a conditional discharge shall include that
the defendant:
               a.   Not violate any criminal statute or quasi-criminal
ordinance of any jurisdiction; and
               b.   Report to and appear in person before such person or agency
as directed by the court.
            2.   The conditions of a conditional discharge may, in addition,
require that the defendant:
               a.   Work or pursue a course of study or vocational training;
               b.   Undergo medical or psychiatric treatment or treatment for
drug addiction or alcoholism;
               c.   Make restitution or reparation in an amount not to exceed
actual loss or damage to property and pecuniary loss; and
               d.   If a minor, to reside with his or her parent or in a foster
home, attend school, attend a non-residential program for youth or contribute
to his or her own support at home or in a foster home.
            3.   When a court orders restitution or reparation as a condition
for a conditional discharge, the court shall determine the amount and
conditions of payment. When the conditions of payment have not been satisfied,
the court, at any time prior to the expiration or termination of the period of
conditional discharge, may impose an additional period of not more than two
years. Only the conditions of payment shall continue to apply during such
additional period. The court shall retain all of the incidents of the original
sentence including the authority to modify or enlarge the original conditions
and to revoke the penalty of conditional discharge if the conditions of
payments are violated during such additional period.
            4.   When a petition is filed charging a violation of a condition
imposed for conditional discharge, the court:
               a.   May order a summons to the offender to appear, or order a
warrant for the offender’s arrest where there is danger of his or her fleeing
the jurisdiction or causing serious harm to others or when the offender fails
to answer a summons. The issuance of such warrant or summons shall stay the
sentence of conditional discharge until the final determination of the charge,
and the term of conditional discharge shall not run so long as the offender has
not answered the summons or warrant;
               b.   Shall conduct a hearing of the alleged violation. The court
may admit the offender to bail pending the hearing;
               c.   Shall receive evidence in open court with the right of
confrontation, cross- examination and representation by counsel. The village
has the burden of going forward with the evidence and proving the violation by
the preponderance of the evidence;
               d.   Shall not revoke a conditional discharge for failure to
comply with conditions of a sentence which imposes financial obligations upon
the offender unless such failure is due to his or her willful refusal to pay;
and
               e.   May modify the conditions of a conditional discharge on
motions of the village or on its own motion or at the request of the offender
after notice to all parties and a hearing.
         (b)   If the court finds that the offender has violated a condition at
any time prior to the expiration or termination of the period, it may continue
the offender on the existing period with or without modifying or enlarging the
conditions or may impose any other penalty that was available at the time of
the initial penalty.
   (E)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
131.020 through
131.023 of this chapter shall be fined $750. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-5)
(Ord. 93-234, passed 12-7-1993; Ord. 05-031, passed 9-6-2005; Ord. 15-037,
passed 9-8-2015)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS AND DECENCY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.001   Obscene, harmful materials
   
132.002   Indecent conduct
   
132.003   Bathing in public
   
132.004   Profanity
   
132.005   Window peeping
   
132.006   Gambling
Prostitution
   
132.020   Definitions
   
132.021   Street solicitation
   
132.022   Solicitation by internet, electronic communication device or print
media
 
   
132.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.001 OBSCENE, HARMFUL MATERIALS.
   (A)   Obscene materials.
      (1)   Definition.
         (a)   A thing is OBSCENE if, considered as a whole, its predominate
appeal is to prurient interest; that is, a shameful or morbid interest in
nudity, sex or excretion, and if it goes substantially beyond customary limits
of candor in description or representation of such matters.
         (b)   A thing is OBSCENE even though the obscenity is latent, as in
the case of undeveloped photographs.
      (2)   Obscene materials prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
knowingly to exhibit, sell, print, offer to sell, give away, circulate,
publish, distribute or attempt to distribute any obscene book, magazine,
pamphlet, paper, writing, card, advertising, circular, print, picture,
photograph, image, instrument, drawing or other article which is obscene.
   (B)   Harmful materials.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
         HARMFUL MATERIAL. Material is harmful if, to the average person
applying contemporary standards, its predominant appeal, taken as a whole, is
to prurient interest, that is a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or
excretion, which goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in
description or representation of such matters, and is material the redeeming
social importance of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
         MATERIAL. Any writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment.
      (2)   Harmful material to minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a
person who, with knowledge that a person is a child, that is a person under 18
years of age, or who fails to exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the true
age of a child, knowingly distributes to or sends or causes to be sent to, or
exhibits to, or offers to distribute or exhibit any harmful material to a
child, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   Falsifying age. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely states
that he or she is not under the age of 18 years, or who presents or offers to
any person any evidence of age or identity which is false or not actually his
or her own for the purpose of ordering, obtaining, viewing or otherwise
procuring, or attempting to procure or view any harmful materials, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in §
132.999 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2-1) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.002 INDECENT CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to publicly expose his or her person or
make any indecent gestures within the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2-2) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.003 BATHING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe at any public place or in any
place open to the public view unless such person is adequately garbed in a
bathing suit.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2-3) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.004 PROFANITY.
   It shall be unlawful to use profanity in any street, alley or other public
place in the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2-4) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.005 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to look, peep or peep
into, or be found loitering around or within view of any window within a
building occupied as the residence of another with the intent of watching or
looking through said window to observe any person undressed or in the act of
dressing or undressing.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2-5) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.006 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Gambling prohibited. It shall be unlawful to gamble or attend a
gambling place to make a bet, lottery or gambling hazard, or to buy or sell any
changes or tickets in any gambling game, arrangement, or device, except for
video gambling terminals when played, used, owned, maintained or transported as
authorized in a licensed establishment which is licensed pursuant to the
state’s Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., as hereinafter supplemented or
amended from time to time, and village ordinances as supplemented or amended
from time to time.
   (B)   Gambling devices. It shall be unlawful to possess or expose for public
use any slot machine, pinball machine or coin-operated device designed for
gambling, or any other gambling device, punchboard or paraphernalia with the
intent to use the same for an unlawful purpose, and any such device or
paraphernalia kept with such intent may be confiscated by any member of the
Police Department, except for devices and equipment licensed by the state and
conducted in accordance with the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
   (C)   Gambling houses, rooms, yards, boats, vessels, other structures or
premises.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or patronize any establishment
maintained for a gambling house or resort anywhere in the village.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to advertise any gambling house or resort in
any street, alley or other public place within the village.
      (3)   Every house, room, yard, boat, vessel or other structure or
premises kept or used for the purpose of permitting persons to gamble for any
valuable thing is hereby declared to be a common nuisance, except for licensed
establishments operated in accordance with the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/
1 et seq. No person shall own, keep, maintain, manage or conduct or shall be
interested in owning, keeping, maintaining, managing or conducting any such
place.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2-6) (Ord. 12-566, passed 9-4-2012) Penalty, see §
132.999
PROSTITUTION
§ 132.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PANDERING. Any person who performs any of the following acts for any money,
property, token, object, article or anything of value:
      (1)   Compels a person to become a prostitute; or
      (2)   Arrange or offers to arrange a situation in which a person may
practice prostitution.
   PIMPING. Any person who receives any money, property, token, object, article
or anything of value from a prostitute, not for lawful consideration, knowing
it was earned in whole or in part from the practice of prostitution.
   PROSTITUTION. Any person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any act
of sexual penetration, as defined in this section, for any money, property,
token, object, article or any thing of value, or any touching or fondling of
the sex organs of one person by another person, for any money, property, token,
object, article or any thing of value, for the purpose of sexual arousal or
gratification.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park,
driveway, parking lot or transportation facility, or the doorways and entrance
ways to any building which fronts on any of the aforesaid places, or a motor
vehicle in or on any such place, or any other public way, within the village.
   SEXUAL PENETRATION. Any contact, however slight, between the sex organ or
anus of one person by an object, the sex organ, mouth or anus of another person
or any intrusion, however slight, of any part of the body of one person or of
any animal or object into the sex organ or anus of another person, including,
but not limited to, the act of cunnilingus, fellatio or anal penetration.
Evidence of emission of semen is not required to prove SEXUAL PENETRATION.
   SOLICITATION OF A PROSTITUTE. Any person who performs any of the following
acts:
      (1)   Solicits another person for the purpose of prostitution;
      (2)   Arranges to meet a prostitute or offers to arrange a meeting with a
prostitute for the purpose of prostitution; or
      (3)   Directs another person to a place knowing such direction is for the
purpose of prostitution.
(Ord. 15-047, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 132.021 STREET SOLICITATION.
   The following acts are hereby prohibited and any person found participating
in such acts shall be in violation of this section and found guilty of
solicitation of a prostitute:
   (A)   Any person who remains or wonders about in a public place and
repeatedly beckons to, repeatedly attempts to engage passers-by in conversation
or repeatedly interferes with the free passage of other persons for the purpose
of soliciting for a prostitute;
   (B)   Any person who remains or wanders about in a public place and
repeatedly beckons to or stops, or repeatedly attempts to stop, or repeatedly
attempts to engage passers-by in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts
to stop motor vehicles, or repeatedly interferes with the free passage of other
persons, for the purpose of pandering;
   (C)   Any person who responds to the beckoning of a prostitute in a public
place by inquiring about, negotiating for, accepting an offer of prostitution
or by allowing another person into his or her motor vehicle for purposes of
inquiring about, negotiating for or accepting an offer of prostitution. The
Chief of Police shall make available to local newspapers, radio and television
stations the names of all persons charged with violating this section; and
   (D)   Any person who engages in pimping, as defined in §
132.020 of this chapter.
(Ord. 15-047, passed 11-2-2015) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.022 SOLICITATION BY INTERNET, ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE OR PRINT
MEDIA.
   Any person who utilizes a computer, phone, any electronic communication
device or print media (including, but not limited to, answering advertisements
and messages on commercial adult-themed websites or answering advertisements in
any form of print media), in the commission of any of the violations set forth
in §
132.021 of this chapter, shall be in violation of this subchapter and found
guilty of solicitation of a prostitute.
(Ord. 15-047, passed 11-2-2015) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person convicted of violating any provision of §
132.001 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500,
for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2-1)
   (C)   (1)   Penalties/administrative adjudication.
         (a)   Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of §§
132.020 through
132.022 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $500, and not more than
$1,000. In addition to payment of the fines imposed under this division (C), a
violator may be required to perform a minimum of 100 hours of community service
in a program under the direction of the Chief of Police.
         (b)   Administrative adjudication. Any violation of any provision of
§§
132.020 through
132.022 of this chapter may be enforced pursuant to §§
10.030 through
10.043 of this code of ordinances, and as amended from time to time, which
provides for the administrative adjudication of certain ordinance violations.
The Village Administrator may also direct the Village Prosecutor or the Village
Attorney to proceed before any court having competent jurisdiction to enforce
§§
132.020 through
132.022 of this chapter.
         (c)   License suspension, revocation. Any village licensee, including,
but not limited to, liquor and business licensees, who is found guilty of
violating any of the provisions of §§
132.020 through
132.022 of this chapter, may be subject to suspension or revocation of such
license.
      (2)   Impoundment of motor vehicle.
         (a)   As provided in §§
70.040 through
70.053 of this code of ordinances, and as amended from time to time, a motor
vehicle that is used in the violation of this section or the state’s Criminal
Code, soliciting for a prostitute, soliciting for a juvenile prostitute or
patronizing a juvenile prostitute, as those terms are defined in the state’s
Criminal Code, shall be subject to seizure and impoundment. The owner of record
of such motor vehicle shall be liable to the village for an administrative
penalty of $1,000, in addition to fees for the towing and storage of the
vehicle.
         (b)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this division (C)(2),
the police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
controlled by the village or its agents. When the motor vehicle is towed, the
police officer shall notify the person who is found to be in control of the
vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the
seizure of the vehicle and the vehicle owner’s right to request a preliminary
hearing as provided pursuant to §§
70.040 through
70.053 of this code of ordinances.
         (c)   The preliminary hearing and the post-tow hearing shall be
conducted as provided in §§
70.040 through
70.053 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 15-047, passed 11-2-2015)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section
   
133.001   Abandoned refrigerators
   
133.002   Obstructing stairways and exits
   
133.003   Objects on windowsills or balconies
   
133.004   Spikes in railings and fences
   
133.005   Throwing objects on athletic fields and public parks
   
133.006   Inciting riots; unlawful trespass to person or property due to
prejudice
   
133.007   Passing police and fire lines
   
133.008   Possessing burglar tools
   
133.009   Loudspeakers
   
133.010   Deceptive advertising
   
133.011   Forging signatures
   
133.012   Fortunetellers; psychics
   
133.013   Whistles
 
   
133.999   Penalty
§ 133.001 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or keep any refrigerator,
icebox, ice chest or deep freeze of a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet
or more in any place accessible to children without first removing the doors of
such refrigerator, icebox, ice chest or deep freeze.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3-1) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.002 OBSTRUCTING STAIRWAYS OR EXITS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, church,
theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or any building used in
part or wholly for any such purpose, or in any building used by two or more
tenants or families in such manner that it interferes with the free use of such
stairway, aisle, corridor or exit.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3-2) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.003 OBJECTS ON WINDOWSILLS OR BALCONIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any windowsill,
railing or balcony, top of porch or any other projection from any house or
other building in the village any movable article or thing unless the same is
securely and firmly fastened or protected so as to render it impossible for any
such movable article or thing to fall into the public way.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3-3) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.004 SPIKES IN RAILINGS AND FENCES.
   No owner, lessee or person in possession of any building in the village
shall erect or maintain, or permit to be erected or maintained, on or about the
stairway in, or the entrance to such building, or on or about its exterior
building line, or upon any portion of the sidewalk adjacent to such building,
any railing, fence, guard or protection of any kind upon which there shall be
affixed or in any manner attached so as to protrude therefrom any spike, nail
or other pointed instrument of any kind or description, unless such protrusion
shall be an integral part of the fencing located entirely on private property;
and unless any such protrusion projecting vertically upward shall be at least
six feet in height above the ground; and unless any such protrusion projecting
vertically downward shall be not more than six inches from the ground.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3-4) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.005 THROWING OBJECTS ON ATHLETIC FIELDS AND PUBLIC PARKS.
   No person shall throw, drop or place upon any baseball park, athletic field
or public park, or other place where games are played, any bottle or other
glass receptacle or any broken bottle or other broken instrument or thing.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3-5) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.006 INCITING RIOTS; UNLAWFUL TRESPASS TO PERSON OR PROPERTY DUE TO
PREJUDICE.
   It is unlawful to create a clear and present danger of a riot or assault,
battery or other unlawful trespass against any person or group of persons
because of his, her or their race, religion, color, national origin or
ancestry, or to create a clear and present danger of arson, vandalism,
defacement or other unlawful trespass against property because of the race,
religion, color, national origin or ancestry of the owner, possessor or
authorized user or users of said property or, in the case of a cemetery, of the
decedent buried therein.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.007 PASSING POLICE AND FIRE LINES.
   No person shall pass police and fire lines for the purpose of gathering and
editing spot news or photographing news events unless such person is a legal
holder of a press card.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-6) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.008 POSSESSING BURGLAR TOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any
nippers of the description known as burglar’s nippers, pick lock, skeleton key,
key to be used with a bit, jimmy or other burglar’s instrument or tool of
whatsoever kind or description, unless it be shown that such possession is
innocent or for a lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-7) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.009 LOUDSPEAKERS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any loudspeaker or
amplifier connected with any radio, phonograph, microphone or other device by
which sounds are magnified and made heard over any public street or public
place.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any agency of a local or state
governmental entity nor to radios in homes or in private pleasure vehicles when
the same are operated in such a manner as not to be audible at a distance of 50
feet from such vehicle nor to noise devices, bands or other musical devices
used in any public parade or procession which is operated under a permit in
accordance with the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit to be emanated or emitted from any
such device any lewd, obscene, profane or indecent language or sounds or any
false representation of any matter, product or project advertised thereby, the
sale of which is prohibited by law, ordinance or statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-8) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.010 DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING.
   No person shall, with intent to sell or in any way dispose of merchandise,
securities, service or any thing offered directly or indirectly to the public
for sale or distribution, or with intent to increase the consumption thereof,
or to induce the public in any manner to enter into any obligation relating
thereto, or to acquire title thereto or any interest therein, make, publish,
disseminate, circulate or place before the public, or cause directly or
indirectly to be made, published, disseminated, circulated or placed before the
public in the village, in any newspaper or other publication sold or offered
for sale upon any public way or other public place, or on any sign upon any
public way or other public place, or in any handbill or advertisement posted
upon any public way or public place, or on any placard, advertisement or
handbill exhibited or carried in any public way or public place, or on any
banner or sign flying across the public way or from any house, an advertisement
of any sort regarding merchandise, securities, service or anything so offered
to the public, which advertisement contains any assertion, representation or
statement which is untrue, deceptive or misleading.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.011 FORGING SIGNATURES.
   Whenever it may be necessary, in order to procure a license, permit, grant
or privilege of any kind, or to obtain a referendum vote on any proposition to
secure signatures to a petition for the same under any law or ordinance
affecting the whole or any part of the village, it shall be unlawful for any
person, individually, or any firm or corporation, by its members, officers or
agents, to forge the signature or procure the forging of the signature to the
same of any person who is by law qualified to sign such petition, or to sign or
procure the signing of a fictitious name to such petition, or to procure the
signature to the same of the person qualified to sign such petition by payment
of money or other valuable thing to the person so signing.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-10) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.012 FORTUNETELLERS; PSYCHICS.
   (A)   Spiritualism and fortunetelling prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall hold or give any public or private meeting,
gathering, circle or seance of any kind in the name of spiritualism, or of any
other religious body, society, cult or denomination, and therein practice, or
permit to be practiced, fraud or deception of any kind.
      (2)   No person shall obtain money or property from another by fraudulent
devices and practices in the name of, or by means of, spirit mediumship,
palmistry, card reading, astrology, seership or like crafty science, or
fortunetelling of any kind.
   (B)   Advertising psychic or magical powers. No person shall advertise by
display, sign, circular, handbill or in any newspaper, periodical, magazine or
other publication, or by any other means, to tell fortunes or reveal the
future; or by means of occult or psychic power, faculties or forces,
clairvoyance, psychology, psychometry, spirits, mediumship, seership, prophecy,
astrology, palmistry, necromancy or like crafty science, cards, talismans,
charms, potions, magnetism, magnetized articles or substances, oriental
mysteries or magic of any kind or nature, to find or restore lost or stolen
property, to locate oil wells, gold, silver, other ore, metal or natural
product, to restore lost love, friendship or affection, to unite or procure
lovers, husbands, wives, lost relatives or friends, or to give advice in
business affairs or advice to any kind or nature to others for or without pay.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-11) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.013 WHISTLES.
   It shall be unlawful to blow or cause to be sounded any steam whistles of
any stationary engine or steam engine in the village, except as a signal for
starting or stopping work or in emergencies to avoid or to prevent injury to
persons or property.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-12) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
133.004 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $50,
for each offense; and each day any person shall fail or neglect to remove from
such railing, fence or other protection, any such spike, nail or other pointed
instrument, after notice in writing from the Commissioner of Building so to do,
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3-4)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
133.006 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500,
or imprisoned for not less than ten days, nor more than six months, or both,
for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
133.008 of this chapter shall be fined a penalty of not less than $100, nor
more than $200, for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-7)
   (E)   Any person violating any provisions of §
133.009 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500,
for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-8)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
Section
General Provisions
   
134.001   Truancy
   
134.002   Curfew
   
134.003   Illinois I-SEARCH Program
Parental Responsibility
   
134.015   Definitions
   
134.016   Parental irresponsibility
   
134.017   Supervision
   
134.018   Court appearance of parents
   
134.019   Severability
 
   
134.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 134.001 TRUANCY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. Any foster parent, or any person appointed guardian, or
otherwise awarded custody of a minor by a court of law in the state, or any
person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court
Act (705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.), but shall not include any person appointed
guardian only to the estate of a minor.
      PARENT. The father or mother of a minor child, whether by birth or
adoption. In the event that the minor’s parents are divorced or separated
within the meaning of the state’s Marriage and Dissolution of Marriage Act (750
ILCS 5/101 et seq.), the parent having lawful physical custody of the minor
shall be deemed to be the PARENT authorized to give consent as required by this
section.
      VALID CAUSE. For absence of attendance at school during enrollment hours,
includes illness, observance of a religious holiday, death in the immediate
family, family emergency and shall include such other situations beyond the
control of the student as determined by the Board of Education in each
district, or such other circumstances which cause reasonable concern to the
parent for the safety or health of the student.
   (B)   Truancy prohibited. It shall be unlawful for minors 18 years of age
and younger enrolled in a public, private or parochial school within the
corporate limits of the village to absent himself or herself from attendance at
school during the hours in which he or she is enrolled without valid cause or
the permission of a parent, legal guardian or the school in which they are
enrolled. Any person who shall so absent himself or herself shall be guilty of
the offense of truancy and shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
134.999 of this chapter.
   (C)   Defenses. In addition to being absent for valid cause, as defined
herein, a minor shall not be considered truant where he or she is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or school official;
      (2)   Engaged in approved school related activities;
      (3)   Engaged in lawful employment; provided that, the School Board of
the public school district in which the child resides has recommended the
employment and has certified the facts concerning such employment;
      (4)   Physically or mentally unable to attend school due to a disability
and such disability has been certified in accordance with § 26-1(2) of the
state’s School Code (105 ILCS 5/26-1(2)); or
      (5)   Subject to any other defense and/or exception set forth in the
state’s School Code (105 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.) for compulsory attendance or
enrollment in school.
   (D)   Authority to stop and detain. Any police officer who witnesses a
person whom the officer reasonably believes to be in violation of this section
may stop and detain the person for the purpose of verifying the person’s
identity, age, school enrollment and authority to be absent from school. The
police officer shall immediately inform the person of the reason for the
detention and that he or she will be released upon verification of
authorization to be absent from school. Other than to transport the student to
school or to his or her parent or legal guardian, the person shall not be
removed from the scene of the investigatory stop unless he or she refuses to
provide the officer with the necessary information. If the officer determines
that the person is in violation of this section, he or she shall, if practical,
transport the offender to school authorities or to the child’s parent or legal
guardian.
   (E)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for any parent, legal
guardian or other person to permit a person in his or her custody or control to
commit the offense of truancy.
   (F)   Contributing to the delinquency. It shall be unlawful for any person
18 years of age or older to perform any act of commission or omission which act
encourages or contributes to the truancy of any person.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-5-2015) Penalty, see §
134.999
§ 134.002 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits a curfew offense when he or she remains in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits a curfew offense when he or she knowingly permits
the minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
during curfew hours.
   (B)   Curfew defenses. It is a defense to prosecution under division (A)
above that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a law
enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being
in the public place.
      (2)   The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this
section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and
that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in division (B)
above is present.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
         (c)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile crash or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      REMAIN. To:
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(a) to (d)) Penalty, see §
134.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose curfew, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
§ 134.003 ILLINOIS I-SEARCH PROGRAM.
   (A)   Village participation in state program. The Mayor and Board of
Trustees of the village endorse the I-SEARCH Unit Program and will take all
necessary steps within their powers to accomplish the goals of said I-SEARCH
Program; and further, the Mayor is hereby authorized to enter into any and all
necessary agreements with the Department and more specifically a program
entitled I-SEARCH.
   (B)   Program goals and benefits. The following is a listing of the goals
and benefits of the I-SEARCH Program which is being sponsored by the Thornton
Township Youth Committee Program in cooperation with the 11 municipalities in
Thornton Township:
      (1)   Specialized training for police officers in the area of recovery of
missing children. This would not require the expenditure of local funds
currently reimbursable at 50% from the state’s Local Government Training Board.
This would be fully paid from grant and local match funds. One possibility
discussed in planning meetings was a three-day workshop seminar lead by a
person from the Michigan State Police Department, which is an expert on police
intervention in cases involving child abduction and molestation;
      (2)   Educational materials on prevention of child abduction for children
and parents would be purchased and distributed and presented by a police
officer or the program coordinator in the community. These materials would
include films, pamphlets and signs to identify “safe place” homes and I-SEARCH
communities;
      (3)   Compiling, maintaining and making data available upon request of
law enforcement agencies and other entities deemed appropriate by the
Department to assist enforcement agencies in recovering missing children;
      (4)   Drafting and implementing plans for the most efficient use of
available resources to publicize and conduct searches for missing children;
      (5)   Establishing and maintaining contracts with other I-SEARCH units,
law enforcement agencies and the Department in order to help increase the
probability of locating and returning missing children, and to otherwise assist
in the recovery and tracking of such children;
      (6)   Organizing more effective investigation of reports of missing
children by law enforcement agencies of participating municipalities and
allocating manpower and time for investigation of reports of missing children
more evenly across participating municipalities;
      (7)   Conducting training programs and distributing materials that
provide guidelines for children when dealing with strangers, casual
acquaintances or non-custodial parents in order to avoid abduction or
kidnapping with equal intensity among participating communities. It is proposed
that one presentation per week is given in the schools when the program is in
full operation;
      (8)   The Program Coordinator will assist in the publication of “hot
sheets” to be distributed among the participating I-SEARCH police departments.
This hot sheet will have up-to-date information on all children reported as
missing from the participating communities;
      (9)   The police departments of participating municipalities have agreed
to organize two emergency response teams of four members each. The team members
will be juvenile officers who volunteer or are appointed from participating
police departments. They would be intensively trained in investigative
techniques for recovery of missing children. The teams would be available
immediately for speedy investigation upon request of the Police Chief of the
community reporting a missing child;
      (10)   For those cases which are not solved within 72 hours and where
abduction or runaway involving foul play is suspected, the Project Coordinator
will be responsible for publishing information in appropriate publications such
as the I-SEARCH Bulletin, People Finders and Child Find;
      (11)   “Safe place” homes would be organized in each community. It is
proposed that a media campaign be initiated with and objective for four homes
per month, for a total of 148 “safe-place” homes in FY 1986; and
      (12)   A child in the community may be saved from abduction or foul play
which would more than offset any quantifiable cost.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2) (Res. 85R-119, passed 6-25-1985)
PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
§ 134.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
court of the state, but does not include a person appointed guardian or given
custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 (705 ILCS 405/1-1 et
seq.). The term LEGAL GUARDIAN does not include guardian ad litem.
   MINOR. Any person who has not yet attained the age of 19 years.
(Ord. 09-471, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 134.016 PARENTAL IRRESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with
such parent or legal guardian shall fail to exercise proper parental
responsibility by allowing or permitting such minor to commit any violation of
a village ordinance or state statute concerning vandalism, battery, curfew,
disorderly conduct, fireworks, obscene conduct, indecent exposure, trespass or
possession of alcoholic liquor, cannabis or a controlled substance, or any
other offense of willful or malicious acts to persons or property.
   (B)   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with
such parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence of
the contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility and
such minor shall be deemed to have committed the following acts with the
knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian, in violation of this
section, upon the occurrence of the following events:
      (1)   An unemancipated minor residing with a parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property
or shall have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property;
      (2)   Such parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned, from the
Department of Police following such adjudication or non-judicial sanction; and
      (3)   If, at any time within one year following receipt of the notice set
forth in division (B)(2) above the minor is either adjudicated to be in
violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described in division (B)(2)
above or shall have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law
or statute as described in division (B)(2) above.
   (C)   If a minor shall pay a fine lawfully imposed on him or her, the
parents or legal guardians of the minor shall be jointly and severally liable
for such fine.
(Ord. 09-471, passed 6-15-2009) Penalty, see §
134.999
§ 134.017 SUPERVISION.
   It is the policy of the village to permit the Village Prosecutor to use the
provisions of the Unified Code of Corrections, as amended, of the state,
pertaining to supervision in order to further the ends of justice, restitution
and the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 09-471, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 134.018 COURT APPEARANCE OF PARENTS.
   (A)   (1)   It is the policy of the village that a parent or legal guardian
of a minor be notified and required to appear in court whenever that minor is
charged with a violation of an ordinance or state statute which requires the
minor’s appearance in court.
      (2)   To this end, it is hereby directed that a notice in substantially
the following form be sent to the parents or legal guardians of the minor:
 
LEGAL NOTICE TO:  (Parents’ names)
FROM: Village of Dolton
 
You are hereby notified that  (minor’s name)  has been charged with an offense
which is a violation of a village ordinance or state statute and which requires
the appearance of said minor in court. You are further notified that one of the
parents of said minor must appear in court before the case will be tried or be
disposed.
 
If you fail to appear, the Village Prosecutor has been directed to have issued a
subpoena to bring you into court. Failure to obey a subpoena can result in
contempt of court, with a fine or imprisonment as the penalty.
 
   (B)   The Village Prosecutor is hereby directed to have subpoenas issued
whenever a parent or legal guardian of a minor does not appear in court.
(Ord. 09-471, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 134.019 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event that any term, provision, section or other portion of this
subchapter shall be held unconstitutional or unenforceable for any reason, such
term, provision, section or other portion shall be deemed severed from the
remainder of this subchapter and those portions unaffected by the holding shall
remain in full force and effect. If either §
134.999(C)(2) or (C)(3) of this chapter are held unenforceable as excessive or
otherwise, the amount then recoverable under the state’s Parental
Responsibility Law, 740 ILCS 115/1 et seq., as amended from time to time, shall
be substituted.
(Ord. 09-471, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 134.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §
134.001 of this chapter are punishable by a fine of $250 for a first offense,
$500 for the second offense and $750 for the third and subsequent offenses.
   (C)   (1)   Any person convicted of any violation of §
134.016 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100, or more than $750,
for each offense.
      (2)   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides
with such parent or legal guardian is liable for actual damages for the willful
or malicious acts of such minor which cause injury to a person or property.
         (a)   Any municipal corporation, county, township, village, school
district or any other political subdivision or department of the state or any
person, partnership or corporation, association or any incorporated or
unincorporated religious, educational or charitable organization is entitled to
enforce the liability imposed by this division (C).
         (b)   Except as provided in division (C)(1) above, no recovery under
this section may exceed $2,500 actual damages for each person, or legal entity
as provided in division (C)(2)(a) above for each occurrence of such willful or
malicious acts by the minor causing injury, in addition to taxable court costs.
In determining the damages to be allowed in an action under §
134.016 of this chapter for personal injury, only medical, dental and hospital
expenses and expenses for treatment by Christian Science practitioners and
nursing care appropriate thereto may be considered.
         (c)   The limitations imposed by division (C)(2)(b) above shall not
apply, and the full amount of actual damages suffered by each person, or legal
entity identified in division (C)(2)(a) above, for each occurrence of willful
or malicious acts by the minor causing injury, shall be recoverable from the
parents or legal guardian of the minor perpetrator, where the minor perpetrator
resides with the parent or legal guardian to be charged, and such parent or
legal guardian knew, or had reason to know, of the dangerous or destructive
propensities of the minor.
(Ord. 09-471, passed 6-15-2009; Ord. 15-001, passed 1-5-2015)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES CONCERNING WEAPONS
Section
Weapons and Firearms
   
135.001   Air rifles
   
135.002   Discharge of firearms
   
135.003   Hunting
   
135.004   Assault weapons and large-capacity magazines
Dangerous Weapons
   
135.015   Prohibitions
   
135.016   License required
   
135.017   License application; investigation; affidavits
   
135.018   License fee
   
135.019   Bond requirement
   
135.020   Daily report required for sales or gifts
   
135.021   Register required
   
135.022   Restrictions on sales or gifts
   
135.023   Sales display restrictions
   
135.024   License revocation
   
135.025   Utility knives; sale, display and use
   
135.026   Concealed weapons
   
135.027   Arrest of violators; confiscation of weapons
 
   
135.999   Penalty
WEAPONS AND FIREARMS
§ 135.001 AIR RIFLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AIR RIFLE. Includes any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol,
B-B gun, pellet gun or any implement that is not a firearm which impels a
pellet constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead or other hard materials with a
force that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
      DEALER. Any person, co-partnership, association or corporation engaged in
the business of selling at retail or renting any of the articles included in
the definition of “air rifle”.
   (B)   Restrictions involving minors.
      (1)   Selling, renting or transferring to children.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any dealer to sell, lend, rent, give or
otherwise transfer an air rifle to any person under the age of 13 years of age
or where such dealer has failed to make reasonable inquiry relative to the age
of such person and such person is under 13 years of age.
         (b)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give, lend or otherwise
transfer any air rifle to any person under 13 years of age, except where the
relationship of parent and child, guardian and ward or adult instructor and
pupil exists between such person and the person under 13 years of age, or where
such person stands in loco parentis to the person under 13 years of age.
      (2)   Carrying in public. It is unlawful for any person under 13 years of
age to carry any air rifle on the public streets, roads, highways or public
lands within the state unless such person under 13 years of age carries such
rifle unloaded.
      (3)   Discharging in public. It is unlawful for any person to discharge
any air rifle from or across any street, sidewalk, road, highway or public land
or any public place, except on a safely constructed target range.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-1) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.002 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Discharges prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other firearm
within the village, except upon premises used by a duly licensed shooting
gallery, gun club or rifle club.
      (2)   No cannon or piece of artillery shall be discharged or fired off in
any public way or other public place within the village, except upon the
express permission of the village’s Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
sheriffs, coroners, constables, members of the police force or other peace
officers engaged in the discharge of their official duties, or to any person
summoned by any such officers to assist in making arrests or preserving the
peace while such person so summoned is engaged in assisting such officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-2) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.003 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in killing or hunting any bird
or animal in the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-4) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.004 ASSAULT WEAPONS AND LARGE-CAPACITY MAGAZINES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSAULT WEAPON.
         (a)   A semi-automatic rifle that has the capacity to accept a large-
capacity magazine detachable or otherwise and one or more of the following:
            1.   Only a pistol grip without a stock attached;
            2.   Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that
can be held by the non-trigger hand;
            3.   A folding, telescoping or thumbhole stock;
            4.   A shroud attached to the barrel, or that partially or
completely encircles the barrel, allowing the bearer to hold the firearm with
the non-trigger hand without being burned, but excluding a slide that encloses
the barrel; or
            5.   A muzzle brake or muzzle compensator.
         (b)   A semi-automatic pistol or any semi-automatic rifle that has a
fixed magazine, that has the capacity to accept more than ten rounds of
ammunition;
         (c)   A semi-automatic pistol that has the capacity to accept a
detachable magazine and has one or more of the following:
            1.   Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that
can be held by the non-trigger band;
            2.   A folding telescoping or thumbhole stock;
            3.   A shroud attached to the barrel, or that partially or
completely encircles the barrel, allowing the bearer to hold the firearm with
the non-trigger hand without being burned, but excluding a slide that encloses
the barrel;
            4.   A muzzle brake or muzzle compensator; or
            5.   The capacity to accept a detachable magazine at some location
outside of the pistol grip.
         (d)   A semi-automatic shotgun that has one or more of the following:
            1.   Only a pistol grip without a stock attached;
            2.   Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that
can be held by the non-trigger hand;
            3.   A folding, telescoping or thumbhole stock;
            4.   A fixed magazine capacity in excess of five rounds; or
            5.   An ability to accept a detachable magazine; any shotgun with a
revolving cylinder;
conversion kit, part or combination of parts, from which an assault weapon can
be assembled if those parts are in the possession or under the control of the
same person.
         (e)   Shall include, but not be limited to, the assault weapons models
identified as follows:
            1.   The following rifles or copies or duplicates thereof:
               a.   AK- AKM, AKS, AK-47, AK-74, ARM, MAK90, Misr. NHM 90, NHM
91, SA 85, SA 93 and VEPR;
               b.   AR-10;
               c.   AR-15, Bushmaster XM15, Armalite M15 or Olympic Arms PCR;
               d.   AR70;
               e.   Calico Liberty;
               f.   Dragunov SVP Sniper Rifle or Dragunov SVU;
               g.   Pabrique National FN/FAL, FN/LAR or FNC;
               h.   Hi-Point Carbine;
               i.   HK-91, HK-93, HK-94 or HK-PSG-1;
               j.   Kel-Tec Sub Rifle;
               k.   Saiga;
               l.   SAR-8, SAR-4800;
               m.   SKS with detachable magazine;
               n.   SLG95;
               o.   SLR 95 or 96;
               p.   StevrAUG;
               q.   Sturm Ruger Mini-14;
               r.   Tavor;
               s.   Thompson 1927, Thompson M1 or Thompson 1927 Commando; or
               t.   Uzi, Galil and Uzi Snorter, Galil Snorter or Galil Sniper
Rifle (Galatz).
            2.   The following pistols or copies or duplicates thereof:
               a.   Calico M-110;
               b.   MAC-10, MAC-11 or MP5A3;
               c.   Olympic Arms OA;
               d.   TEC-9, TEC-DC9, TEC-22 Scorpion or AB-10; or
               e.   Uzi.
            3.   The following shotguns or copies or duplicates thereof:
               a.   Armscor 30 BG;
               b.   SPAS 12 or LAW 12;
               c.   Striker 12; or
               d.   Streetsweeper.
         (b)   ASSAULT WEAPON does not include any firearm that has been made
permanently inoperable, or satisfies the definition of “antique firearm” under
applicable state law, or for Olympic target shooting weapons.
      DETACHABLE MAGAZINE. Any ammunition feeding device, the function of which
is to deliver one or more ammunition cartridges into, the firing chamber, which
cap be removed from the firearm without the use of any tool, including a bullet
or ammunition cartridge.
      LARGE-CAPACITY MAGAZINE. Any ammunition feeding device with the capacity
to accept more than ten rounds, but shall not be construed to include the
following:
         (a)   A feeding device that has been permanently altered so that it
cannot accommodate more than ten rounds;
         (b)   A 22-caliber tube ammunition feeding device; and
         (c)   A tubular magazine that is contained in a lever-action firearm.
      MUZZLE BRAKE. A device attached to the muzzle of a weapon that utilizes
escaping gas to reduce recoil.
      MUZZLE COMPENSATOR. A device attached to the muzzle of a weapon that
utilizes escaping gas to control muzzle movement.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall manufacture, sell, offer or display for sale,
give, lend, transfer ownership of, acquire or possess any assault weapon or
large-capacity magazine. This section shall not apply to:
         (a)   The sale or transfer to, or possession, by any officer, agent or
employee of the village or any other municipality or state or of the United
States, members of the armed forces of the United States or the organized
militia of this or any other state; or peace officers, to the extent that any
such person named in this section is otherwise authorized to acquire or possess
an assault weapon and/or large-capacity magazine and does so while acting
within the scope of his or her duties; or
         (b)   Transportation of assault weapons or large-capacity magazine if
such weapons are broken down and in a non-functioning state and are not
immediately accessible to any person.
      (2)   Any assault weapon or large-capacity magazine possessed, sold or
transferred in violation of this section is hereby declared to be contraband
and shall be seized and destroyed of in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
      (3)   Any person who, prior to the effective date of this section, was
legally in possession of an assault weapon or large-capacity magazine
prohibited by this section shall have 90 days from the effective date of this
section to do any of the following without being subject to prosecution
hereunder:
         (a)   To remove the assault weapon or large-capacity magazine from
within the limits of the village;
         (b)   To modify the assault weapon or large-capacity magazine either
to render it permanently inoperable or to permanently make it a device no
longer defined as an assault weapon or large-capacity magazine; or
         (c)   To surrender the assault weapon or large-capacity magazine to
the Chief of Police or his or her designee for disposal as provided in this
section.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be destroyed each assault weapon
or large-capacity magazine surrendered or confiscated pursuant to this section
and to be kept a record of the date and method of destruction of each firearm
or large-capacity magazine destroyed pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 13-010, passed 7-18-2013) Penalty, see §
135.999
DANGEROUS WEAPONS
§ 135.015 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibitions generally. No person shall carry, possess, sell, loan or
give to any person any blackjack, slingshot, sand-club, sandbag, metal knuckles
or bludgeon, or carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto or other
dangerous or deadly weapon.
   (B)   Concealed weapons. No person shall carry concealed on or about his or
her person a pistol, revolver, derringer or other firearm, or a dagger, dirk,
stiletto, Bowie knife, commando knife, or any other type or kind of knife, any
blade of which is more than two and one-half inches in length, ordinary razor
or other dangerous or deadly weapon. This provision shall not apply, however,
to the following officers while engaged in the discharge of their official
duties: sheriffs, coroners, constables, police officers or other duly-
constituted peace officers and wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons,
penitentiaries, jails and other institutions for the detention of persons
accused or convicted of crime; nor to the following employees or agents while
engaged in the discharge of the duties of their employment; conductors,
baggagemen, messengers, drivers, watchmen, special agents and police officers
employed by railroads or express companies; nor to persons lawfully summoned by
an officer to assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while so engaged
in assisting such officer.
   (C)   Arrest of violators, confiscation of weapons.
      (1)   Any police officers of the village may, within the limits of the
village, without a warrant, arrest any person whom such police officer may find
in the act of carrying or wearing under his or her clothes or concealed about
his or her person, any deadly weapon of the character specified in this
section, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon, and detain him or her in
custody until a summons or warrant can be procured on complaint made (under
oath or affirmation), for the trial of such person and for the seizure and
confiscation of such of the weapons as such person may be found in the act of
carrying or wearing under his or her clothes or concealed about his or her
person.
      (2)   In addition to all other penalties, weapons used in violation of
this section shall be ordered forfeited to and confiscated by the village.
   (D)   Unlawful firearm or laser sight accessory in motor vehicle;
impoundment.
      (1)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
controlled by the village or its agents. Before or at the time the vehicle is
towed, the police officer shall notify any person identifying himself or
herself as the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, of
the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner’s right to request a vehicle
impoundment hearing to be conducted under §§
10.030 through
10.043 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   The provisions of §§
10.030 through
10.043 of this code of ordinances shall apply whenever a motor vehicle is
seized and impounded pursuant to this section.
   (E)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the OWNER OF RECORD of a
vehicle is the record title holder.
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 05-317, passed 11-21-2005) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.016 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of selling, or
to sell or give away, any dagger, sword, stiletto, billy, Bowie knife, machete,
dirk, stun gun or taser, or other dangerous or deadly weapon, which can be
carried or concealed on the person, without securing a weapons dealer license.
The license required by this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
license required by law.
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.017 LICENSE APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION; AFFIDAVITS.
   (A)   The Director of Revenue shall be the custodian of all applications for
licenses which are required to be made to him or her. It shall be grounds for
the revocation of any license issued under the provisions of this subchapter
whenever the license applicant knowingly includes false or incomplete
information in the license application.
   (B)   (1)   The Director of the Department of Revenue shall promulgate
reasonable rules and regulations necessary to carry out the duties,
responsibilities and requirements imposed by this subchapter; including, but
not limited to, developing reasonable procedures consistent with existing
practices of regulating persons engaged in the business of dealing in dangerous
knives.
      (2)   All applications for a weapon’s dealer license under this
subchapter shall be made in writing to the Department of Revenue on a form
provided for that purpose.
      (3)   The application shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual: if a partnership, the persons entitled to share in the profits
thereof; and, if a corporation or an incorporated club, the corporate name,
registered officer and agent and the date of incorporation. A copy of the
articles of incorporation shall also be furnished with the application;
         (b)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and,
if a naturalized citizen, the date and place of his or her naturalization;
         (c)   The character of business of the applicant;
         (d)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of
such character;
         (e)   The location and description of the premises which are to be
operated under such licenses;
         (f)   A statement as to whether applicant has made similar application
for a license required by this subchapter for another location and the
disposition of such application;
         (g)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony;
         (h)   A statement as to whether a previous license issued by any state
or subdivision thereof, or by the Federal Government has been revoked and the
reasons therefor;
         (i)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws
of the state or of the United States or any ordinance of the village in the
conduct of his or her business; and
         (j)   A statement that applicant has been a resident of the village
for a period of not less than six months and is of legal age.
      (4)   Upon receipt of an application for a weapons dealer license, the
Director of Revenue shall transmit to the Chief of Police, who is charged with
the investigation of such application and such information as may be necessary
to grant the license.
      (5)   The Chief of Police shall, upon receipt of such information from
the Director of Revenue, cause an investigation to be made and shall verify the
information on the application, and perform a background check as well as a
fingerprint check to determine whether the applicant has the requisite
character and fitness to obtain a weapons dealer license.
      (6)   No license shall be approved if:
         (a)   A person who is not a resident of the village for a period of at
least six months;
         (b)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
         (c)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any state or
federal law;
         (e)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
         (f)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon an
original application;
         (g)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-
partnership shall be qualified to obtain a license;
         (h)   A corporation, if any officer, director or manager thereof or
any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the
stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder
for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the village;
         (i)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless
it is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the state’s Business
Corporation Act, being 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, to
transact business in the state;
         (j)   A person whose business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
         (k)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease therefor for the full period for which the
license is to be issued; and
         (l)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
      (7)   The Chief of Police shall determine whether the applicant has
complied or has not complied with the relevant requirements for the particular
license and shall notify the Director of Revenue accordingly, along with a
recommendation that the application be approved or denied.
      (8)   After the initial and one follow-up inspection by the Police Chief,
a $50 re-inspection fee shall be assessed against the license applicant for
each subsequent inspection, except where the subsequent inspection was
necessary due to an error made by the village.
      (9)   If the Director of Revenue determines that the applicant has
complied with all of the necessary licensing requirements for the particular
license, and that all laws and provisions of this subchapter regulating the
business for which such license is applied for have been complied with, the
Director of Revenue shall immediately authorize the issue of the license by the
Department of Revenue.
      (10)   If the Director of Revenue disapproves the license application, he
or she shall notify the unsuccessful applicant in writing of the reasons for
the disapproval. The notice shall be sent to the applicant within five business
days after the disapproval, by first class mail addressed to the applicant at
the address shown in the application. The license applicant may within ten days
after receiving notice of the disapproval make a request in writing to the
Director of Revenue for a hearing on the disapproved application. Within 20
business days after a request for a hearing is made, a public hearing shall be
authorized before an independent hearing examiner, who shall report his or her
findings to the Director of Revenue after completion of the hearing. The public
hearing shall be commenced within ten days after it is authorized.
      (11)   The Director of Revenue shall within 15 days after such hearing
that the license application be disapproved, state the reason for such
determination in written finding and shall serve a copy of such finding upon
the license applicant. No license shall be approved and the license application
fee shall be forfeited if the application review process is not completed
within 90 days after the license application is filed, except where the delay
in completing the process has been occasioned by the village. A new application
and filing fee must be submitted to the Department of Revenue after the
expiration of the 90-day period.
   (C)   All applicants may be required to swear to any statement made in
connection with the application for the issuance of any license. When any
applicant for a license is required to make any statement contained in the
application under oath, or when the sureties on the bond to be executed in
connection with the issuance of a license are required to be sworn to any
statement made therein, or when any affidavit is required to be made in
connection with the issuance of a plate or emblem by the Village Clerk, such
affidavit may be made by the applicant before a notary in the office of the
Director of Revenue, and such affidavit shall be drawn by such notary and the
oath administered without cost. The Director of Revenue shall designate a
sufficient number of notaries public in his or her office to draw the
affidavits and administer the oaths as herein provided for, and all expenses in
connection with the commissions and seals for said notaries public shall be
borne by the village.
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 135.018 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for a weapons dealer license shall be $500.
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 135.019 BOND REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   A bond is required for issuance of the weapon dealer’s license, such
bond must be a surety company bond to be approved by the Village Attorney and
must be file with the Village Clerk before the license is issued.
   (B)   Such bond shall be no less than the sum of $1,000.
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 135.020 DAILY REPORT REQUIRED FOR SALES OR GIFTS.
   Every person dealing in the aforementioned deadly weapons shall make out and
deliver to the Superintendent of Police every day before the hour of 12:00
p.m., a legible and correct report of every sale or gift made under authority
of his or her license during the preceding 24 hours, which report shall contain
the date of such sale or gift, the name of the purchaser or donee with his or
her address and age, the number, kind, description and price of such weapon,
the number of the purchaser’s permit and the purpose given by such person for
the purchase of such weapon, which report shall be substantially in the
following form:
 
Number of weapon                                                                                             
Name of purchaser                                                                                             
Address of purchaser                                                               
Age of purchaser                                                                                                
Kind or description of weapon                                                                             
For what purpose purchased                                                                                
Price                                                                                                                 
 
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 135.021 REGISTER REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person dealing in the aforementioned deadly weapons at retail,
within the village, shall keep a register of all such weapons sold, loaned,
rented or given away by him or her.
   (B)   Such register shall contain the date of the sale, loaning, renting or
gift, the number of the permit, the number of the weapon, the name and age of
the person to whom the weapon is sold, loaned, rented or given, the price of
each item and the purpose for which it is purchased or obtained.
   (C)   The said register shall be in the following form. Such register shall
be kept open for the inspection of the police at all reasonable times during
business hours.
 
                  To whom   Age of                            For what
Date of Number of sold,     purchaser Kind and    Quantity of purpose
sale    weapon    loaned,   or person description Weapons     purchased   Price
                  rented or obtaining of weapon               or obtained
                  given     weapon
 
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 135.022 RESTRICTIONS ON SALES OR GIFTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter or give away to any
person within the village any deadly weapon referenced in §
135.016 of this chapter, except to licensed dealers. This section shall not
apply to sales made of such articles which are to be delivered or furnished
outside the village.
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.023 SALES DISPLAY RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit for sale in show cases or
show windows, or on any premises immediately abutting upon any public way in
the village in such a way that the same may be seen from such public way on
counters or in any other public manner, any deadly weapon mentioned in §
135.016 of this chapter or to display any signs, posters, cartoons or display
cards suggesting the sale of any such deadly weapons.
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.024 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   In case the Director of Revenue shall determine that such applicant has
violated any provision of this subchapter, he or she shall revoke the license
to such person for the selling of such weapons, and the money paid for such
license shall be forfeited to the village. No other such license shall be
issued to such licensee for a period of three years thereafter.
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 135.025 UTILITY KNIVES; SALE, DISPLAY AND USE.
   (A)   As used in this section, a UTILITY KNIFE is a knife consisting of a
grip and single-edged sharp blade of the type typically used to cut such
resistant surfaces as rugs, cardboard boxes, linoleum flooring and the like.
   (B)   No person shall display or offer for sale any utility knife, except by
placing the knife either:
      (1)   In an area immediately accessible only to an employee of the
establishment, and beyond the reach of any customer less than seven feet tall;
or
      (2)   In a locked display cabinet, which cabinet can only be opened by an
employee of the establishment.
   (C)   (1)   No person under the age of 18 shall carry a utility knife on his
or her person or in the passenger compartment of a motor vehicle. This
prohibition shall not apply to a minor using a utility knife for a lawful
purpose:
         (a)   In his or her residence, under the immediate supervision of his
or her parent or legal guardian;
         (b)   In a classroom, at the direction and under the immediate
supervision of his or her teacher; or
         (c)   In his or her place of lawful employment, at the direction and
under the immediate supervision of his or her adult employer or an adult
supervisor.
      (2)   For purpose of division (C)(1)(c) above, PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT
includes an employer’s motor vehicle used to transport the employer’s tools and
equipment, as well as a site where the employer is performing any lawful work.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, give, deliver or offer a
utility knife to a person under the age of 18. The prohibition on giving,
offering or delivery of a utility knife shall not apply to:
         (a)   A parent or legal guardian who gives a utility knife to his or
her minor or ward in the family residence for a lawful use, to be performed
within the residence at the direction and under the immediate supervision of
parent or legal guardian;
         (b)   A teacher who gives a utility knife to a minor student; or who
allows or directs a minor student to take possession of a utility knife in a
classroom for a lawful use to be performed in the classroom at the direction
and under the immediate supervision of the teacher; or
         (c)   To an adult employer, who gives a utility knife to a minor
employee, or who allows or directs a minor employee to take possession of a
utility knife, in the place of lawful employment at the direction and under the
immediate supervision of the adult employer or an adult supervisor.
      (2)   For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) above, PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT
includes an employer’s motor vehicle used to transport the employer’s tools and
equipment as well as a site where the employer is performing any lawful work.
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.026 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person shall carry concealed on or about his or her person a pistol,
revolver, derringer or other firearm, or a dagger, dirk, stiletto, Bowie knife,
commando knife or any other type or kind of knife, any blade of which is more
than two and one-half inches in length, ordinary razor or other dangerous or
deadly weapon. This provision shall not apply, however, to the following
officers while engaged in the discharge of their official duties: sheriffs;
coroners; constables; police officers or other duly constituted peace officers;
and wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries, jails and
other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted of crime;
nor to the following employees or agents while engaged in the discharge of the
duties of their employment: conductors; baggagemen; messengers; drivers;
watchmen; special agents; and police officers employed by railroads or express
companies; nor to persons lawfully summoned by an officer to assist in making
arrests or preserving the peace while so engaged in assisting such officer.
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.027 ARREST OF VIOLATORS; CONFISCATION OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Any police officers of the village may, within the limits of the
village, without a warrant, arrest any person whom such police officer may find
in the act of carrying or wearing under his or her clothes or concealed about
his or her person, any deadly weapon of the character specified in this
subchapter or any other dangerous or deadly weapon, and detain him or her in
custody until a summons or warrant can be procured on complaint made (under
oath or affirmation), for the trial of such person and for the seizure and
confiscation of such of the weapons as such person may be found in the act of
carrying or wearing under his or her clothes or concealed about his or her
person.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties, weapons used in violation of this
section shall be ordered forfeited to and confiscated by the village.
(Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 135.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
135.001 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-1)
   (C)   The violation of any provision of §
135.004 of this chapter is a misdemeanor, punishable by not more than six
months imprisonment or a fine of not less than $500, and not more than $1,000,
or both.
   (D)   (1)   The owner of record of any motor vehicle that contains an
unregistered firearm, a firearm that is not broken down in a non-functioning
state or a laser sight accessory shall be liable to the village for an
administrative penalty of $1,000, plus any towing and storage fees applicable
under §§
10.030 through
10.043 of this code of ordinances. Any such vehicle shall be subject to seizure
and impoundment pursuant to §§
135.015 through
135.027 of this chapter.
      (2)   Within ten days after the vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant
to this section, the village shall notify by certified mail, return receipt
requested, the owner of record of the date, time and location of a hearing that
will be conducted pursuant to this division (D) and §§
135.015 through
135.027 of this chapter. The hearing shall be scheduled and held, unless
continued by order of the Hearing Officer, no later than 30 days after the
vehicle was seized. The hearing shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer of the
village. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the hearing. If, after the hearing, the Hearing Officer determines by
a preponderance of evidence that the vehicle contained an unregistered firearm,
a firearm not broken down in a non-functioning state or a laser sight
accessory, and that none of the exceptions described in §
135.015 of this chapter applies, the Hearing Officer shall enter an order
finding the owner of record of the vehicle civilly liable to the village for an
administrative penalty in the amount of $1,000. If the owner of record fails to
appear at the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall enter a default order in favor
of the village requiring the payment to the village of an administrative
penalty in the amount of $1,000. If the Hearing Officer finds that no such
violation occurred, the Hearing Officer shall order the immediate return of the
owner’s vehicle or cash bond.
      (3)   (a)   If an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to this
division (D), such penalty shall constitute a debt due and owing to the
village. If a cash bond has been posted pursuant to this division (D), the bond
shall be applied to the penalty, if a vehicle has been impounded when such a
penalty is imposed the village may seek to obtain a judgment against the
vehicle as provided by law. Except as provided otherwise in this division (D),
a vehicle shall continue to be impounded until:
            1.   The penalty, plus any applicable towing and storage fees, is
paid to the village, in which case possession of the vehicle shall be given to
the person who is legally entitled to possess the vehicle; or
            2.   The vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to satisfy a
judgment or enforce a lien as provided by law.
         (b)   If the administrative penalty and applicable fees are not paid
within 30 days after an administrative penalty is imposed under division (D)(3)
(a) above against an owner of record who defaults by failing to appear at the
hearing, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the
manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles. In all other
cases, if the administrative penalty and applicable fees are not paid within 30
days after the expiration of time at which administrative review of the Hearing
Officer’s determination may be sought or within 30 days after an action seeking
administrative review has been resolved in favor of the village, whichever is
applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in
the manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles.
         (c)   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner,
lienholder or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a
vehicle impounded under this section until the civil penalty and fees
applicable under this section have been paid.
         (d)   However, whenever a person with a lien of record against an
impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession of the
vehicle shall be given to that person if he or she agrees in writing to refund
to the village the amount of the net proceeds of any foreclosure sale, less any
amounts required to pay all lienholders of record, up to $1,000, plus
applicable fees.
      (4)   Any person who violates any provision of §
135.025 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500 and
not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 13-010, passed 7-18-2013; Ord. 04-256, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 05-317,
passed 11-21-2005)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES CONCERNING INTOXICANTS
Section
General Provisions
   
136.001   Cannabis
Drug Paraphernalia
   
136.015   Definitions
   
136.016   Exempt items
   
136.017   Forfeiture and seizure of property
Drug and/or Dope Houses
   
136.030   Definitions
   
136.031   Prohibitions
   
136.032   Notice
   
136.033   Abatement
   
136.034   Legal standards
   
136.035   Legal action
   
136.036   Legal remedies
 
   
136.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 136.001 CANNABIS.
   (A)   CANNABIS includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical syntheses or by a combination of extraction
and chemical syntheses; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, cake or
the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person knowingly to
possess any quantity of any substance containing cannabis; except that, the
effect of this section shall be limited to persons knowingly possessing up to
ten grams of any substance containing cannabis.
   (C)   It shall be a defense to this action if a person found in possession
of cannabis is authorized to possess cannabis pursuant to the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
(Ord. 14-007, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
136.999
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 136.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS. The same as the meaning ascribed to it in § 3 of the Cannabis
Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.), as if that definition were incorporated
in this subchapter.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. The same as the meaning ascribed to it in § 102 of the
state’s Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.), as if that
definition were incorporated in this subchapter.
   DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are marketed for, or possessed with the intent to, use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in
violation of the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.) or the state’s
Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.). It includes, but is not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Kits peculiar to and marketed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (3)   Isomerization devices peculiar to and marketed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant, which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment peculiar to and marketed for private home use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis
or controlled substances;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      (6)   Diluents and adulterants peculiar to and marketed for cutting
cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
      (7)   Objects marketed for or possessed with the intent to use in
ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil into the human body including, where applicable, the following
items:
         (a)   Water pipes;
         (b)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (c)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (d)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (e)   Carburetor pipes;
         (f)   Electric pipes;
         (g)   Air driven pipes;
         (h)   Chillums;
         (i)   Bongs;
         (j)   Ice pipes or chillers; and
         (k)   Cigarette rolling papers.
      (8)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described, by the seller,
is for use in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-419, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 136.016 EXEMPT ITEMS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to
lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for sale;
   (B)   Items marketed for or customarily used in connection with the
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
inhaling of any other lawful substance; or
   (C)   Items listed in §
136.015 of this chapter, which are marketed for decorative purposes, when such
items have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used for
any illicit purpose prohibited by this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-419, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 136.017 FORFEITURE AND SEIZURE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   All drug paraphernalia is subject to forfeiture and seizure.
   (B)   Seizure by a police officer may be made without process:
      (1)   If there is probable cause to believe that the property is directly
dangerous to health or safety and existing circumstances do not allow
reasonable time for the officer to obtain lawful process; or
      (2)   In accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure
of 1963 (725 ILCS 5/100-1 et seq.), as amended.
   (C)   The presence of items which are deemed violative of this subchapter or
are otherwise subject to forfeiture provisions of this subchapter in any
inventory shall not subject the entire inventory to seizure or forfeiture.
   (D)   When property is forfeited under this subchapter, the Superintendent
of Police may retain it for official use, or forward it to the Bureau of
Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, United States Department of Justice, or its
successor agency, for disposition.
(Ord. 07-419, passed 10-15-2007)
DRUG AND/OR DOPE HOUSES
§ 136.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. An action to terminate the ownership interest or equitable
interest of any responsible party or all responsible parties for violation of
this subchapter.
   CHARGED PARTY. Any party charged with operating a dope house against which
an eviction or abatement action is filed.
   COURT. Any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DRUG HOUSES or DOPE HOUSES. Locations or property used for the purchase of
illegal drugs or controlled substances.
   EVICTION. An action taken against any person in possession of the dope house
to remove said person from legal possession and to make said person a
trespasser.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY OR PARTIES. Any person, corporation, partnership, trust or
other entity of whatever nature having a right to manage said real property or
having a legal or equitable interest by ownership, leasehold or lien in any
real property located in the village.
(Ord. 98-372, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 136.031 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, trust
or other entity of whatever nature having a right to manage said real property
or having a legal or equitable interest by ownership, leasehold or lien in any
real property located in the village, herein called the “responsible party or
parties”, to permit the unlawful sale of drugs or narcotics to be made upon
said premises or out of said premises or to be used for the storage of illegal
drugs and narcotics to be sold at some other location.
   (B)   It shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter for the responsible
party or parties to fail to evict or abate persons operating a drug/dope house
from the premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a responsible party or parties to allow real
property under that party’s control or ownership, by law or equity, to operate
as a drug/dope house once the responsible party or parties are placed on notice
that such drug/dope house is operating on or out of said premises or under such
circumstances when the responsible party or parties have actual knowledge or
should know of said fact.
(Ord. 98-372, passed 6-1-1998) Penalty, see §
136.999
§ 136.032 NOTICE.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or designee shall have reason to believe that a
drug house/dope house is operating within the village, he or she shall cause to
be served in person or by certified mail return receipt requested upon the
responsible party or parties an order to abate said drug house/dope house and a
copy of this subchapter.
(Ord. 98-372, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 136.033 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The responsible party or parties shall thereafter within 15 days
take appropriate measures to evict from possession any person or persons
identified by the Chief of Police as operators of said dope house.
      (2)   If the operator of the dope house is also a responsible party, then
any other responsible party or parties shall institute legal proceedings under
this subchapter to take possession and control of said premises for the purpose
of suppression of said dope house.
   (B)   The Chief of Police and the Police Department shall assist any
responsible party in abating a drug house by providing evidence in court to
support the abatement through the appearance of village police officer and the
presentation of evidence which led the Chief of Police to conclude that the
property was being used as a dope house.
(Ord. 98-372, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 136.034 LEGAL STANDARDS.
   Those presumptions applicable to a possession of drugs with an intent to
sell/deliver in a criminal proceeding under state law shall be applicable to
this subchapter, but proof of violation of this subchapter shall be by the
preponderance of the evidence against a person having only a right to possess
said property, but as against any owner or equitable interest holder by clear
and convincing evidence because abatement under those circumstances will
require the sale of said charged party’s interest in said property.
(Ord. 98-372, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 136.035 LEGAL ACTION.
   The courts shall treat complaints filed under this subchapter as emergency
matters because they effect the health and safety of the village and
continuance should only be given for good cause and for no more than five days,
except under exceptional circumstances and not for delay as the court so
determines.
(Ord. 98-372, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 136.036 LEGAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   When a court finds that a possessor has operated a dope house it shall
order the possessors immediate eviction and shall be authorized to direct the
enforcement of said order to the Police Department or Sheriff of the county, in
those cases brought in the name of the village, the writ shall be directed to
the village’s Police Department.
   (B)   When the court finds that a responsible party or parties has operated
a dope house or has failed to evict a possessor operating a dope house, it
shall appoint any responsible party who is not also a charged party as the
trustee in possession of said property to maintain and control said property
until said trustee sells at public auction, in the same manner as provided by
the state’s Foreclosure Act, being 735 ILCS 5/15-1101 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended, the interest of any charged party who has been found guilty
under this subchapter.
   (C)   If all the responsible parties are in violation of this subchapter or
if a non-violating responsible party requests in writing the assistance of the
village in the enforcement, then the village may bring enforcement for
abatement and eviction in its own name against the charged parties (i.e., the
possessor(s) and responsible parties in violation of this subchapter) by its
appointed special village counsel and seek the appointment of a trustee to
operate said property and the sale of the interest of the charged parties who
have violated this subchapter as permitted in division (B) above.
   (D)   Any person or the village authorized to bring an enforcement action
under this subchapter shall be entitled to recover costs, including reasonable
cost in obtaining evidence, attorneys’ fees and eviction costs out of the sale
of any property or property interest pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 98-372, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 136.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of §
136.001 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $500, and not more than
$750, for each offense. Violations of §
136.001 of this chapter shall be processed through the village’s Administrative
Adjudication Court.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who keeps for safe, offers for sale, sells or
delivers for any consideration any item of drug paraphernalia shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $850, or more than $8,500, for each offense.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly possesses drug paraphernalia with the
intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis or
other controlled substances into the human body or in preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance for that use shall be fined a minimum of $150 and a
maximum of $500.
      (3)   Any store, place or premises from which or in which any item of
drug paraphernalia is kept for sale, offered for sale, sold or delivered for
any consideration is declared to be a public nuisance, and the village’s
Prosecuting Attorney is hereby authorized to commence any and all actions he or
she deems necessary to abate the nuisance.
   (D)   (1)   The Court shall enter, in addition to such other relief
authorized, a fine of $100 per day for every day said premises was shown to be
operate as a dope house against any defendant who is shown to have knowledge
that said dope house was operating and failed to begin enforcement under §§
136.030 through
136.036 of this chapter within 15 days of attaining such knowledge.
      (2)   Where the court finds that the violation of §§
136.030 through
136.036 of this chapter was willful and wanton punitive damages shall be
assessed as allowable by law.
      (3)   On any judgment, the prevailing party shall be entitled to
reasonable court costs and attorneys’ fees.
(Ord. 98-372, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 07-419, passed 10-15-2007; Ord. 14-007,
passed 5-5-2014)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   OFFICIAL VILLAGE PLAN
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   FIRE CODE; PREVENTION
      
153.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
154.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
155.   SURFACE DRAINAGE AREAS
      
156.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
157.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
158.   ZONING
      
159.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
160.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 150: OFFICIAL VILLAGE PLAN
Section
   
150.001   Jurisdiction
   
150.002   Contents of the Official Plan
   
150.003   Basis of the Official Plan
§ 150.001 JURISDICTION.
   The Official Plan, or any part thereof, relates to the physical development
of all or any part of the corporate area and contiguous unincorporated
territory within one and one-half miles thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 150.002 CONTENTS OF THE OFFICIAL PLAN.
   The Official Plan may include rules, regulations, requirements and standards
for private and public improvements within said area and territory. The Plan
includes the following described maps, plans, specifications, resolutions and
provisions, each one duly recommended and heretofore or hereby adopted as
provided by law: Ch.
151;
157; and
158; Comprehensive Plan Report for the Village of Dolton, Illinois, prepared by
Everett Kincaid and Associates, Inc., and approved by the Village President and
Board of Trustees on 2-8-1961; except that, any specific recommendation in that
report shall not be considered part of the Official Plan until that
recommendation has been adopted by enactment of an ordinance or by other
appropriate official act of the President and Board of Trustees of the village.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
§ 150.003 BASIS OF THE OFFICIAL PLAN.
   (A)   Long range needs. Some features of the Official Plan are of necessity
based on future public needs which may or are expected to prevail when all or
most of the land within the tributary to the corporate area is subdivided and
developed or is otherwise improved and occupied. Among such features are:
      (1)   The alignment and width of rights-of-way of major and other
streets, storm water drainage channels and other public facilities;
      (2)   Location and size of sites for parks, playgrounds, schools and
other public buildings and grounds; and
      (3)   Elevations of building sites and buildings near storm water
drainage channels and other features of the design of drains, ditches and storm
water and sanitary sewers which will lessen or avoid the hazards from future
flood water levels.
   (B)   Development to meet demands of growth. Certain features of the
Official Plan may be realized by stages, and the need for or extent of a
particular improvement will depend on the demands created by the surrounding
growth and ability to finance its cost. Such improvements include: pavements,
culverts, bridges, storm sewers, storm water channel widenings, opening of
railroad grade crossings, grade separations, sanitary sewerage, water supply
facilities, development of parks and playgrounds, a public library, schools and
other public buildings and grounds and facilities, and development of the
business district plan. When such improvements shall be carried out or
constructed and the extent of their design (whether provided by the subdivider
or developer of land or by the municipality or other public agency) shall be
determined by the authority having jurisdiction. All such improvements shall be
made as provided by statutes and ordinances relating thereto and in accordance
with approved or established standards.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Codes adopted
   
151.002   Moving buildings
   
151.003   Demolitions
   
151.004   Roof tear-offs and water shields
   
151.005   Rental properties; license and tenant registration fees
Building Inspection Department
   
151.015   Department created
   
151.016   Building Commissioner
   
151.017   Building Inspector
   
151.018   Electrical Inspection Division
   
151.019   Electrical Inspector
   
151.020   Plumbing Inspector
   
151.021   Entry powers
   
151.022   Stop work orders
   
151.023   Records kept
   
151.024   Cooperation from other village officials
Building Code
   
151.035   BOCA Basic Building Code
   
151.036   Building permit requirements
   
151.037   Annual inspections
   
151.038   Permit and inspection fees
   
151.039   Additional construction specifications
   
151.040   Security locking systems
   
151.041   Smoke detectors
   
151.042   Wrecking buildings
   
151.043   Outside burglary security window bars
Electrical Code
   
151.055   Short title
   
151.056   Chicago Electrical Code
   
151.057   Electrical permits
   
151.058   Inspections
   
151.059   Fees
   
151.060   Dead or defective wires
   
151.061   Defective work
   
151.062   Electrical contractors to be licensed
   
151.063   Non-liability of village
Plumbing Code
   
151.075   BOCA Basic Plumbing Code
   
151.076   Plumbing permits
   
151.077   Plans and drawings
   
151.078   Inspections
   
151.079   Permit and inspection fees
   
151.080   Supervision of plumbing work
   
151.081   Records kept
   
151.082   Fixtures, accessories and toilet facilities
   
151.083   Construction specifications
   
151.084   Plumbing in moved buildings
   
151.085   Defective work; nuisance plumbing
   
151.086   Licensed plumbers regulated
   
151.087   Non-liability of village
Mechanical Code
   
151.100   BOCA Mechanical Code adopted
   
151.101   Permit and inspection fees
Minimum Housing Standards and Property Maintenance
   
151.115   Legislative intent
   
151.116   Application
   
151.117   License
   
151.118   Enforcement official
   
151.119   Inspections
   
151.120   Appeals
   
151.121   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.122   Sale or lease in absence of inspection
   
151.123   Procurement of warrant
   
151.124   Fees
   
151.125   Rules and regulations
Existing Structures Code
   
151.140   BOCA National Existing Structures Code
Unsafe, Dangerous Buildings
   
151.155   Definition; nuisance declared
   
151.156   Unsafe buildings prohibited
   
151.157   Boarding windows and doors of structures restricted
   
151.158   Abatement of nuisance
   
151.159   Court proceedings
   
151.160   Damaged wooden buildings within fire limits
Private Garages
   
151.175   Definition
   
151.176   Compliance with provisions
   
151.177   Detached garages and accessory buildings
   
151.178   Attached garages and accessory buildings
   
151.179   Drainage of garage floors
Signs and Billboards
   
151.190   Definitions
   
151.191   Permit required; application; issuance
   
151.192   Permit and inspection fees
   
151.193   Exemptions from permit requirements
   
151.194   Location of signs or billboards
   
151.195   Construction requirements
   
151.196   Reconstruction or alteration of billboards
   
151.197   Maintenance required
   
151.198   Signs obstructing or attached to fire escapes
   
151.199   Inspections
Real Estate Transfer Tax
   
151.210   Short title
   
151.211   Definitions
   
151.212   Tax imposed
   
151.213   Nature and extent of tax
   
151.214   Liability of tax
   
151.215   Purchase of stamps
   
151.216   Filing of declaration
   
151.217   Exceptions
   
151.218   Recordation of deed
   
151.219   Duty of trustee
   
151.220   Proceeds to tax
   
151.221   Imposition of lien
   
151.222   Interest and penalties
   
151.223   Civil liability for tax
Real Estate Water Stamp Transfer
   
151.235   Title
   
151.236   Applicable transactions
   
151.237   Tax imposed
   
151.238   Seller liable
   
151.239   Water stamp tax
   
151.240   Transfer declaration
   
151.241   Unauthorized sale of water stamps
   
151.242   Exempt transactions
   
151.243   Canceling stamps
   
151.244   Lien and foreclosure of lien
Defaulted Mortgages and Vacant Property Registration
   
151.255   Purpose and intent
   
151.256   Definitions
   
151.257   Applicability and jurisdiction
   
151.258   Establishment of registry
   
151.259   Inspection and registration of defaulted mortgage
   
151.260   Registration of real property which is not subject to mortgage in
default
   
151.261   Maintenance requirements
   
151.262   Security requirements
   
151.263   Provisions supplemental
   
151.264   Public nuisance
   
151.265   Additional authority
   
151.266   Opposing, obstructing; Enforcement Officer
   
151.267   Immunity of Enforcement Officer
   
151.268   Violation
   
151.269   Amendments
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Declaration of purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform rules and
regulations for the construction and rehab of buildings, single-family and
duplex homes, including Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, Energy Efficiency and
Property Maintenance Codes, using the (ICC) 2012 Edition, within the corporate
limits of the village.
      (2)   This chapter is not intended, nor shall it be construed, to create
a duty on the part of the village or its officials, employees or agents, to
protect the health, safety or economic interests of any person or entity, and
no person or entity shall have the right to rely on this code, or any action
taken or not taken hereunder, as a basis to assert any claim for any loss,
damage or expense against the village, its officials, employees or agents.
   (B)   Adoption of codes by reference.
      (1)   The Mayor and the Board of Trustees of the village hereby
references the following building codes and amendments thereto. These codes
shall be known as the “Village of Dolton Building Codes” and establish rules
and regulations for the construction of buildings and property maintenance
within the corporate limits of the village. Where any provision of these
building code ordinances conflicts with state law, state law will supersede,
unless provided for within this chapter or the provisions of the adopted codes:
         (a)   International Fire Code (ICC) - 2012 Edition;
         (b)   NEC - National Electric Code - 2011 Edition;
         (c)   International Building Code (ICC) - 2012 Edition;
         (d)   International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings
(ICC) - 2012 Edition;
         (e)   International Plumbing Code (ICC) - 2012 Edition;
         (f)   International Mechanical Code (ICC) - 2012 Edition;
         (g)   International Energy Conservation Code - 2012 Edition;
         (h)   International Property Maintenance Code (ICC) - 2012 Edition;
         (i)   International Existing Building Code (ICC) - 2012 Edition; and
         (j)   National Fire Protection Association (NFPA):
            1.   NFPA 13 - Installation of Sprinkler Systems;
            2.   NFPA 72 - National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code - 2013
Edition;
            3.   NFPA 70 - National Electrical Code - 2014 Edition; and
            4.   NFPA 101 - Life Safety Code.
      (2)   The village amendments to these codes are attached to the ordinance
codified herein. A copy of each of the codes with the amendments is on file in
the Village Clerk’s office.
   (C)   Applicability of Building Code. “Name of jurisdiction” shall mean
“Village of Dolton”. The Building Code shall apply in its entirety to all
buildings. In one- and two-family dwellings, the village also requires hard-
wired smoke and carbon monoxide detectors and heat detectors in attached
garages (placed per 2012 Residential Code (ICC)).
   (D)   Legal status. The adoption of this chapter shall not affect any suit
or proceeding now pending in any court, nor shall it affect any legal decision
reached prior to its adoption.
   (E)   Applicable local ordinance and state laws supersede code provisions.
Matters included in the code, but regulated by other applicable local
ordinances or state laws will not be enforced by the Building Department unless
such ordinance or state law requires such enforcement.
   (F)   Building permits. Before beginning any work, except as exempted
elsewhere in this chapter, the owner or his or her authorized agent shall
secure a building permit from the Building Department in accordance with the
applicable Building Code. Upon approval by the Building Department, a permit
card will be issued to the owner. This card shall be posted in a conspicuous
location, visible from the street, for the duration of construction. A building
permit shall be valid for three months. If the project is not completed within
three months, a written request for a one-time extension of the time of
completion shall be submitted to the Building Inspector for approval. If the
project is not completed by the extension date, a new permit must be obtained
for the outstanding work.
   (G)   Amendments to building permits. Any amendment to a building permit
shall be submitted in writing to the Building Department, with appropriate
adjustments to the permit fee. An amendment is required for any changes in
building location, footprint, exiting, exitways, life safety provisions or
significant changes in plumbing, electrical, mechanical and the like. Approval
shall be granted before work is commenced. For other than one- and two-family
dwellings, it shall be the determination of the Planning and Zoning staff
whether the proposed changes merit an amendment to the existing approved permit
or require a new application submission.
   (H)   Work that may be done without a building permit on existing buildings
or structures. Work consistent with § 105.2 (work exempt from permit) of the
International Building Code, or § R105.2 (work exempt from permit) of the
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings.
   (I)   Certificate of occupancy. When a building permit is required on any
building project under this chapter, such building project shall not be used or
occupied, in whole or in part, as provided for in division (F) above, until the
certificate of occupancy/completion shall have been issued by the Building
Department, unless approved in writing. No certificate of occupancy shall be
issued by the Building Department, unless approved in writing. No certificate
of occupancy/completion shall be issued unless there is compliance with this
chapter. A partial/temporary certificate of occupancy/completion, as provided
for in the International Building Code, may be issued for a period not to
exceed 30 days which may be extended at the discretion of the Building
Department. The additional inspections required in order to issue a temporary
certificate of occupancy/completion shall be paid for as established in the
rate and fee schedule adopted by the village.
   (J)   Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals shall be the Mayor and the
Board of Trustees. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Building
Department may appeal such decision to the Board of Appeals. The Building Code
Board of Appeals shall have the power, upon an appeal filed with it by any
person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Inspector dealing with the
Building Code, to vary the application of any provision of the Building Code to
any particular case when, in its opinion, the enforcement of the Building Code
would do manifest injustice and would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of
the Building Code and the public interest. Any appeal to the Board of Appeals
shall be taken within 15 days of the date of the decision, except for decisions
that a violation exists. With regard to decisions by the Building Department
that there has been a violation of the Building Code, the applicant and/or
contractor shall have seven days from the receipt of the notice of violation to
appeal the decision of the Building Department. Any person aggrieved by a
decision of the Board of Appeals may appeal such decision to the Markham Court
House.
   (K)   Appendices. The following appendices are attached to the ordinance
codified herein.
      (1)   Appendix A, Application for Building Permit. Application for a
permit shall be made to the Code Official and shall be accompanied by one
complete set of plans and specifications showing the work to be done.
Additional sets of plans shall be provided for, if required by the Building
Department. All plans shall bear the seal of an architect or engineer licensed
by the state, except for single- or two-family residences or any structure
which does not have as its principal structural members reinforced concrete or
structural steel and is two and one-half stories or less and 4,000 square feet
or less in area and is not a building of assembly, church, hospital or school
use.
      (2)   Appendix B, Schedule for Processing Building Permit Applications.
         (a)   Upon submission of a complete application, the Code Official
shall act to approve or deny a building permit within 30 days; provided,
however, that, non-residential applications encompassing more than two dwelling
units shall be approved or denied within 60 days.
         (b)   An application which is incomplete shall be deemed abandoned if
no further action is taken by the applicant within 180 days after the original
filing. All material furnished will be returned to the applicant upon written
request. If construction is not started within 180 days after the date of
approval of the permit, the job will be considered abandoned and 25% of the
building permit fee will be returned to the applicant upon written request. If
an application is withdrawn after code review is conducted, but prior to permit
issuance, 25% of the code review fee will be returned to the applicant upon
written request.
      (3)   Appendix C, Procedures for Handling Non-Compliance.
         (a)   The owner/owner’s representative shall obtain an appointment for
an inspection 24 hours before any work is covered to determine Building Code
compliance. If the Code Official finds work covered the contractor shall, upon
request, uncover the work for inspection. If an owner/contractor is not
available at a scheduled inspection, the owner may be charged a fee as
established in the current rate and fee schedule as adopted by the Mayor and
the Board of Trustees to cover the Building Department costs and will be
required to reschedule immediately the required inspection.
         (b)   If the Code Official determines that work is proceeding without
the required inspections being requested, the building permit will be suspended
and the Code Official shall remove the permit card from the project and no
further work shall be done under the building permit until the suspension has
been lifted. Reinstatement of the building permit will require the contractor
to pay to the Building Department a sum equal to one-half of the original
permit fee or $60, whichever is greater.
         (c)   The provision of this division (K)(3) shall equally apply to the
owner if the owner is performing the work on the building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 8-2A-1) (Ord. 91-150, passed 5-28-1991; Ord. 15-038, passed 7-
24-2015)
§ 151.002 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Permit required. No person shall move any building on, through or
over any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the village without
having first obtained a permit from the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   Application for permit. Applications shall state thereon the
proposed route and the number of days it is intended that the building shall
occupy any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place.
      (3)   Permit fees. Upon the approval of the intended route, a fee of $10
for each day or fraction thereof that it is intended that the building shall
occupy any such portion of any such public place shall be paid and the permit
issued. An additional payment of $5 for each day or fraction thereof over and
above the time stated on the permit, during which any building shall occupy any
such public place, shall be paid.
      (4)   Bond requirements. Every person applying for a permit under this
section shall submit with his or her application a bond in the sum of $50,000,
conditioned on his or her compliance with all the provisions of this section,
and agreeing to pay and holding the village harmless from any judgment, cost
and expense which may be made against it, and conditioned further that the
building moved to the new site shall be completed in accordance with approved
plans and specifications within a period of six months from the date that the
said building is located at the new site. Failure to comply shall forfeit the
bond.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-1)
   (B)   Procedures for moving buildings.
      (1)   Lights and warning devices.
         (a)   Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a house or structure
which is being moved, warnings to that effect shall be placed by the Department
of Streets and Alleys so as to warn vehicles and persons from entering that
portion of the street which is so blocked.
         (b)   The person moving any building through the streets shall keep
warning signs and lanterns or lights at night on the building so as to guard
against any person or vehicle from colliding with it.
      (2)   Utility wires or cables. Whenever it shall be necessary to
interfere with wires or cables of a public utility in moving a building, the
terms of any special or franchise ordinance governing shall apply and the bond
therein specified shall be given.
      (3)   Fire alarm wires. When any such moving building shall approach any
fire alarm wire or pole which shall be endangered by the removal of such
building, it shall be the duty of the mover to notify the Chief of the Fire
Department at least six hours before reaching such wire or pole so that they
may be removed or cared for by the authorities of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-2)
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.003 DEMOLITIONS.
   (A)   Demolition of open, hazardous residential and commercial buildings.
      (1)   Demolition of hazardous buildings.
         (a)   If a residential or commercial building is three stories or less
in height, and the village’s Chief Building Inspector, upon the advise and
consent of the Housing Department Director and the Fire Chief, determines that
the building is open and vacant and an immediate and continuing hazard to the
community in which the building is located, then the village’s Chief Building
Inspector shall be authorized to post a notice of not less than two feet by two
feet in size on the front of the building. The notice shall be dated as of the
date of the posting and shall state that unless the building is demolished,
repaired or enclosed, and unless any garbage, debris and other hazardous,
noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials are removed so that an immediate
and continuing hazard to the community no longer exists, then the building may
be demolished, repaired or enclosed, or any garbage, debris and other
hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or materials may be removed, by the
village.
         (b)   Not later than 30 days following the posting of the notice, the
village’s Housing Department shall do the following:
            1.   Cause to be sent, by certified mail, return receipt requested,
a notice to all owners of record of the property, the beneficial owners of any
state land trust having title to the property, and all lienholders of record in
the property, stating the intent of the village’s Housing Department to
demolish, repair or enclose the building, or remove any garbage, debris or
other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials if that action
is not taken by the owner or owners or lienholders of record;
            2.   a.   Cause to be published, in a newspaper of general
circulation that serves the village, a notice setting forth:
                  i.   The address of the building or description of the real
estate sufficient for its identification;
                  ii.   A statement that the property is open and vacant and
constitutes an immediate and continuing hazard to the community; and
                  iii.   A statement that the village intends to demolish,
repair or enclose the building, or remove any garbage, debris or other
hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or materials if the owner or owners
or lienholders of record fail to do so.
               b.   This notice shall be published for three consecutive days.
            3.   Cause to be filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds and
registrar of titles, a notice setting forth:
               a.   The address of the building or a description of the real
estate sufficient for its identification; and
               b.   A statement that the village’s Housing Department has
initiated an action under this section to cause the demolition, repair or
enclosure of the building or the removal of garbage, debris or other hazardous,
noxious or unhealthy substances or materials located on the property if the
owner or owners or lienholders of record fail to do so.
         (c)   A person objecting to the proposed actions of the village’s
Housing Department may file his or her objection in an appropriate form in a
court of competent jurisdiction.
         (d)   If the building is not demolished, repaired or enclosed, or the
garbage, debris or other hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or
materials are not removed, within 30 days of mailing the notice described in
division (A)(1)(b)1. above or within 30 days of the last day of publication of
the notice, whichever is later, the village’s Housing Department shall cause to
be sent, by mail, a final determination to the owners of record, the beneficial
owners of any state land trust having title to the property, and all
lienholders of record in the property, which provides notice that the village’s
Housing Department has determined that the necessary demolition, repair,
enclosure or removal action has not been taken and that the building remains
open and vacant and an immediate and continuing hazard to the community in
which the building is located. The final determination shall include a
statement that, unless a hearing is sought under this section before a court of
competent jurisdiction to object to the proposed actions of the village’s
Housing Department and a copy of the complaint served on the Mayor within ten
days of the mailing of the final determination, the village’s Housing
Department intends to exercise its power to demolish, repair or enclose the
buildings, or to remove any garbage, debris or other hazardous, noxious or
unhealthy substances or materials.
         (e)   The village’s Housing Department may proceed to demolish, repair
or enclose a building or remove any garbage, debris or other hazardous, noxious
or unhealthy substances or materials under this division (A) within a 120-day
period following the date of the mailing of the notice described in division
(A)(1) above if the village’s Chief Building Inspector, upon the advise and
consent of the Housing Department Director and the Fire Chief, determines that
the demolition, repair, enclosure or removal of any garbage, debris or other
hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or materials is necessary to remedy
the immediate and continuing hazard. If, however, before the village’s Chief
Building Inspector proceeds with any of the actions authorized by this section,
any person has sought a hearing under this section before a court and has
served a copy of the complaint on the Mayor, then the village shall not proceed
with the demolition, repair, enclosure or removal of garbage, debris or other
substances until the court determines that action is necessary to remedy the
hazard and issues an order authorizing the village to do so.
         (f)   1.   Following the demolition, repair or enclosure of a
building, or removal of garbage, debris or other hazardous, noxious or
unhealthy substances or materials under this division (A), the village may file
a notice of lien against the real estate for the cost of the demolition,
repair, enclosure, or removal within 180 days after the repair, demolition,
enclosure or removal occurred, for the cost and expense incurred, in the
offices of the Recorder of Deeds and Registrar of Titles. The notice of lien
shall consist of a sworn statement setting forth:
               a.   A description of the real estate, such as the address or
other description of the property, sufficient for its identification;
               b.   The expenses incurred by the village in undertaking the
remedial actions authorized by this chapter;
               c.   The date or dates that the expenses were incurred by the
village;
               d.   A statement by the village’s Chief Building Inspector that
the building was open and vacant and constituted an immediate and continuing
hazard to the community;
               e.   A statement by the village’s Chief Building Inspector that
the required sign was posted on the building, that notice was sent by certified
mail to the owners of record and that notice was published in accordance with
this division (A)(1)(f); and
               f.   A statement as to when and where the notice was published.
            2.   The lien authorized by this chapter may thereafter be released
or enforced by the village as provided by state statues.
      (2)   Emergency demolition of hazardous and unsafe buildings.
         (a)   If any building, regardless of whether it is residential,
commercial or industrial, shall be found by the Director of Housing or the Fire
Chief to be in a such a dangerous and unsafe condition to constitute an sever
hazard requiring emergency action, then the Director of Housing or the Fire
Chief shall send written notice to the owner, with proof of delivery, directing
him or her to put such building in a safe condition, to enclose or to demolish
it. Where, upon diligent search, the identify or whereabouts of the owner or
owners of any such building shall not be ascertainable, the notice shall be
mailed to the person or persons in whose name such real estate was last
assessed. If, after 15 days subsequent to the giving of such notice, the owner
fails to put the building in a safe condition, to enclose or to demolish it,
the Housing Director or the Fire Chief may notify the village’s Prosecuting
Attorney and recommend initiation of proceedings in accordance with this
section. Upon receipt of such recommendation, the village’s Prosecuting
Attorney is hereby authorized to apply to the Circuit Court of the county for
an order authorizing the city to demolish, repair or enclose, or requiring the
owner of record to demolish, repair or enclose, the structure. The village’s
Prosecuting Attorney may initiate a court action to obtain the appropriate
order in the Circuit Court of the county to repair, enclose or demolish the
building irrespective of whether a notice as described in this section is sent.
The cost of such demolition, repair or enclosure shall be recoverable from the
owner or owners of such real estate, and shall be a lien thereon as provided by
law.
         (b)   Whenever an emergency exists which requires immediate action to
protect the public health, safety or welfare, the Director of Housing or the
Fire Chief may issue an order, without notice or hearing, directing the owner,
occupant, operator or agent to take appropriate action to correct or abate the
emergency. Nothing in this section prohibits the Director of Housing or the
Fire Chief and/or his or her designee from issuing an emergency demolition
order directing the demolition of a building or structure, or commercial
structure or building that is an imminent threat of danger. The owner,
occupant, operator or agent shall be granted a hearing on the matter upon his
or her request as soon as practicable, but such hearing, in no case, shall stay
the abatement of the emergency.
         (c)   In addition to the actual costs of the abatement, the village
incurs in an action under this section of the village code of ordinances, the
following costs related to the abatement of an emergency under this section
shall be recoverable against the owner(s) of record: mailing costs; fees
related to the recording or releasing of liens; service of process fees; any
attorney fees; and an administrative fee not to exceed $250 reflecting the
resources, including personnel costs, the village expends in abating
emergencies under this section. If payment is not made within 30 days, a lien
shall be recorded with the county’s Recorder of Deeds against the property for
the amount of the costs incurred. The notice of lien shall contain a sworn
statement setting forth:
            1.   A description of the real estate such as the address or other
description of the property sufficient for its identification;
            2.   The expenses incurred by the city in undertaking the remedial
actions authorized under this section;
            3.   The dates the expenses were incurred by the city; and
            4.   A statement by the city official responsible for enforcing the
Building Code that the structure constituted a serious and imminent hazard to
the health and safety of the community.
      (3)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (A), the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         COMMERCIAL BUILDING.
            1.   Includes buildings of three stories or less in height, other
than residential buildings, where the whole building or parts thereof are
designed or used as business units, mercantile units, or assembly units;
provided, however, that, COMMERCIAL BUILDING shall not include any building
used entirely as a church, school, library, museum, armory, courtroom or open
air assembly unit.
            2.   COMMERCIAL BUILDING shall also include any other building
where the whole building or parts thereof are designed or used for commercial
purposes, including, but not limited to, a gas filling station, parking
facility, parking garage or motor vehicle repair shop.
         RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Includes buildings of three stories or less in
height where the whole building or parts thereof are designed or used as
residential units or auxiliary uses to a residential unit, as those terms are
defined herein.
         VACANT. Lacking of habitual presence of human beings who have legal
right to be on the premises or substantially devoid of content. In determining
whether a building or part thereof is VACANT, it is relevant to consider, among
other factors, the percentage of the overall square footage of the building or
floor to the occupied space, the condition and value of any items in the
building and the presence of rental signs on the property.
   (B)   Dangerous garage demolition.
      (1)   (a)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
            GARAGE. Any stand-alone building, structure, premises or enclosure
within the village, designed primarily for the housing, parking or storage of
five or fewer motor vehicles.
            PUBLIC SAFETY. A garage in a condition that presents an actual and
imminent danger to the public.
         (b)   Such condition may result from, but is not limited to,
structural defects, deterioration or rat or other vermin harborage.
         (c)   Whenever, in the judgment of the village’s Chief Building
Inspector, upon the advice and consent of the Housing Department Director and
the Fire Chief, a garage is a public safety threat, the village’s Housing
Department is authorized to order the garage to be demolished in accordance
with the procedures set forth in division (B)(3) below.
         (d)   Before the village’s Housing Department orders the demolition of
a garage that is a public safety threat, the following procedures shall apply.
            1.   The village’s Housing Department shall first seek to obtain an
affidavit from the owner of the garage, authorizing the village to demolish the
garage.
            2.   In the event that the affidavit specified herein cannot be
obtained, the village’s Housing Department shall, if possible, provide notice
to the owner of the garage by certified mail that the garage will be demolished
within three days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, unless the
owner corrects the conditions creating the public safety threat or seeks a
hearing from the village’s Administrative Hearing Officer. In addition to
providing such mailed notice, if mailed notice is possible, the village’s
Housing Department shall cause the posting of a notice on the garage that the
garage will be demolished within three days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays, unless the owner corrects the conditions creating the public
safety threat or seeks a hearing from the village’s Administrative Hearing
Officer. Such posted notice shall be not less than two feet by two feet in
size.
      (2)   In the event that the owner of the garage fails to correct the
conditions creating the public safety threat or fails to seek a hearing within
three days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, or the provision
of notice provided for in division (B)(1)(d)1. above, the village’s Chief
Building Inspector upon the advise and consent of the Housing Department
Director and the Fire Chief, may provide for the immediate demolition of the
garage.
      (3)   A garage owner seeking a hearing must submit to the village’s
Housing Department a timely written request for a hearing to be conducted by
the village’s Administrative Hearing Officer. Such request shall be deemed
effective when received by the village’s Housing Department, upon receipt of a
timely request for a hearing, the village’s Housing Department shall notify the
Administrative Hearing Officer that an action has been instituted with a
request to conduct a hearing. If, after the hearing, the Administrative Hearing
Officer determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the garage does
constitute a public safety threat, the Administrative Hearing Officer shall
enter an order affirming the determination of the village’s Chief Building
Inspector. If, after the hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer determines
by a preponderance of the evidence that the garage does not constitute a public
safety threat, the Administrative Hearing Officer shall enter an order
reversing the determination of the village’s Chief Building Inspector. If the
owner of the garage requests a hearing, but fails to appear at the hearing or
fails to request a hearing in a timely manner, the owner shall be deemed to
have waived his or her right to a hearing and the Administrative Hearing
Officer may enter a default order in favor of the village. In the event that an
Administrative Hearing Officer affirms the determination of the village’s Chief
Building Inspector, the village’s Housing Department or its agents or
contractors may enter or access the property and abate the public safety threat
by demolishing the garage in question.
(Ord. 12-567, passed 9-4-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.004 ROOF TEAR-OFFS AND WATER SHIELDS.
   The village hereby amends its adoption of the 2003 Internal Building Code
(IBCO) for residential buildings and the 2003 International Building Code
(IBCO) for commercial buildings to provide that in areas where the average
daily temperature in January is 25°F (-4°C) or less, or when the IBCO
provisions so specifically require, in lieu of normal underlayment, a self-
adhering polymer modified bitumen sheet must be used, and shall extend from the
eave’s edge to a point at least 24 inches (610 mm) inside the exterior wall
line of the building.
(Ord. 06-343, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 151.005 RENTAL PROPERTIES; LICENSE AND TENANT REGISTRATION FEES.
   (A)   Fees established for rental properties. The following fees are hereby
established as indicated:
 
Rental license fee                                        $100
Rental inspection fee, single-family residential property $100
Rental inspection fee, multi-unit properties              $75 per unit
 
   (B)   Tenant utility bill registration fee. There is hereby established a
non-refundable registration fee of $100, which shall be imposed where the
municipal utility bill is requested to be issued in the name of the tenant of a
rental property.
(Ord. 21-007, passed 10-4-2021)
BUILDING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 151.015 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created the Department of Building Inspection.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 151.016 BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Office created; appointment. There is hereby created the office of the
Building Commissioner of the village who shall be appointed by the President,
by and with the approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be his or her duty to see to the enforcement of all
ordinance provisions relating to buildings, zoning or housing and to provide
carpentry maintenance and repair to the municipal buildings of the village.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation of the Building Commissioner shall be
set annually by the corporate authorities in the annual appropriation
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. passed 4-9-1974; Ord. passed 9-3-1974)
§ 151.017 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment, qualifications, term of office. There shall be appointed
by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees,
a Building Inspector. He or she shall be an officer of the village and shall be
under the jurisdiction of the President and Board of Trustees. His or her
appointment shall be until April 30 of each year.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to inspect all
buildings or structures being erected, repaired or altered as frequently as may
be necessary to ensure compliance with this village code.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation of the Building Inspector shall be set
annually by the corporate authorities in the annual appropriation ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 151.018 ELECTRICAL INSPECTION DIVISION.
   There is hereby established a division within the Building Department which
shall be known as the Electrical Inspection Division, authorized by 65 ILCS 5/
11-37-2 as now or hereafter amended. Such Division shall consist of the
Building Commissioner and the Building Inspector and such other employees as
may be provided from time to time by the corporate authorities.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 151.019 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Office created; appointment; term of office. There is hereby created
the position of Electrical Inspector who shall be appointed by the President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. His or her term shall
expire on April 30 of each year.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Electrical Inspector shall make all inspections necessary to
see to the enforcement of all ordinances relating to electricity and no
electric wiring shall be covered until it has been inspected and approved.
      (2)   The Electrical Inspector shall give a certificate of approval to
the owner or person in charge of premises which he or she has inspected where
he or she finds that the electrical apparatus and wiring therein fully comply
with the ordinances of the village.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation of the Electrical Inspector shall be
set in the annual appropriation ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 151.020 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment; qualifications; term of office. The Plumbing Inspector
shall be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the
Trustees. No person shall be appointed unless he or she is a resident of the
village and a licensed plumber in accordance with the state’s Plumbers’ License
Law, being 225 ILCS 320/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended. His or her
appointment shall expire on April 30 of each year.
   (B)   Duties. The Plumbing Inspector shall have immediate supervision of all
work done by plumbers in connection with the plumbing of buildings or
structures in the village and the connecting of such plumbing and drainage with
the sewer and water supply systems of the village. He or she shall investigate
complaints pertaining to the drainage and plumbing of premises; supervise tests
required on both old and new work; and examine all plans as to drainage and
plumbing prior to the issuance of permits for the work proposed to be done. He
or she shall approve such plans if the proposed work in all respects complies
with the requirements of this code and he or she shall point out the
particulars, if any, in which the proposed plans do not conform to the
requirements of this code. He or she shall keep a record of all inspections
made by him or her and shall render a daily report thereof to the Building
Commissioner.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation of the Plumbing Inspector shall be set
forth in the annual appropriation ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 151.021 ENTRY POWERS.
   The Building Commissioner, the Building Inspector, the Electrical Inspector
and the Plumbing Inspector, in the discharge of their respective duties, shall
have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any reasonable
hour. Refusal of any person to permit entry to any building, structure or
premises by the Building Commissioner, Building Inspector, Electrical Inspector
or Plumbing Inspector or other village officer as by them designated for the
purpose of inspection as herein provided for, shall be deemed a misdemeanor and
such person, upon conviction of violation of this section, shall be fined.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.022 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   The Building Commissioner, the Building inspector, the Electrical Inspector
and the Plumbing Inspector shall have the power to order all work stopped on
construction, or alteration, or repair of building in the village when such
work is being done in violation of any provision of any ordinance relating
thereto, or in violation of Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances. Work shall not
be resumed after the issuance of such an order, except on the written
permission of the Building Commissioner; provided, that if the stop work order
is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop work order within an
hour. Such written stop order may be served by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8)
§ 151.023 RECORDS KEPT.
   The Building Commissioner, Building Inspector, Electrical Inspector and
Plumbing Inspector shall keep careful and comprehensive records of applications
of permits issued, all inspections made, all reports rendered and all rules and
orders issued. The Building Inspection Department shall retain on file all
permits in connection with building work so long as any part of the building or
structure to which they relate may be in existence. All such records shall be
open to public inspection at reasonable hours, but shall not be removed from
the office of the Building Inspection Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9)
§ 151.024 COOPERATION FROM OTHER VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The Building Commissioner, the Building Inspector, the Electrical Inspector
and the Plumbing Inspector may request and shall receive so far as may be
necessary, in the discharge of their duties, the assistance and cooperation of
the Village Engineer in fixing grades, of the Police Department in enforcing
orders, of the Special Prosecuting Attorney in prosecuting violations and of
other village officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10)
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.035 BOCA BASIC BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the village for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of structures, that
certain Basic National Building Code published by the Building Officials
Conference of America, Inc., as provided for in §
151.001 of this chapter, and from and after the date on which this code shall
take effect the provisions of said Building Code shall be controlling in the
construction of all buildings and other structures contained within the
corporate limits of the village to the extent hereinafter provided.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the word “municipality” is used in said Building Code,
it shall be held to mean the “Village of Dolton”.
      (2)   Whenever the words “building official” are used in said Building
Code, they shall be held to mean the “Building Commissioner of the Village”.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1-1) (Ord. passed 5-15-1984)
§ 151.036 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. Before proceeding with the erection, enlargement,
alteration, repair or removal of any building or structure in the village, a
permit for same shall first be obtained by the owner or his or her agent from
the Building Commissioner, and it shall be unlawful to proceed unless such
permit shall first have been obtained from the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Application for permit; issuance.
      (1)   Application for building permits shall be made by the owner or his
or her agent to the Building Commissioner. When such application is made, a
clear and legible copy of the applicable contract pursuant to which the work is
to be performed and plans in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter,
which have been approved by the Building Commissioner and his or her
assistants, shall be filed with the Commissioner.
      (2)   Any contractor that commences alteration, repair, erection,
enlargement or removal of any building or structure within the village without
first having secured all proper permits shall be subject to, in addition to any
other penalties, the payment of twice the amount of such permits that the
contractor failed to secure prior to commencing work.
   (C)   Building plans.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue any building permit
unless the plans submitted clearly show that such building or structure with
all its appurtenances, foundations and attachments can be erected entirely
within the limits of the lot or tract of land upon which it is proposed to
erect such building or structure, and no permit shall authorize the use of any
part of any public highway or other public ground for the construction or
maintenance of such building or structure, except as provided by this
subchapter.
         (b)   In all cases, the approved plan, together with building permits,
must be kept on the job while the work is in progress.
         (c)   All such plans and drawings shall be drawn to a scale of not
less than one-eighth inch to the foot, on paper or cloth, in ink, or by some
process that will not fade or obliterate. All distances and dimensions shall be
accurately figured, and drawings made explicit and complete, showing the lot
lines and the location of the exterior lines of the building in relation
thereto, and the entire ventilating, sewerage and drain pipes and the location
of all plumbing fixtures within such building. Each set of plans presented
shall be approved by the Building Commissioner before a permit is granted. No
permit shall be granted or plans approved unless such plans are made and signed
by such persons as are permitted, under the laws of the state, to make plans
for buildings, as provided in An Act to Provide for the Licensing of Architects
and Regulating the Practice of Architecture as a Profession in the State of
Illinois, approved 6-24-1919, being 225 ILCS 305/1 et seq. as now or hereafter
amended, or in An Act to Provide for the Licensing of Structural Engineer,
approved 6-24-1919, being 225 ILCS 340/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
      (2)   Architect or engineer to certify plans. It shall be unlawful for
any architect or structural engineer or other person, permitted under the laws
of the state to make drawings and plans, to prepare or submit to the Building
Commissioner for his or her approval, any final drawings or plans for any
building or structure which does not comply with the requirements contained in
this code. The Building Commissioner shall require that all drawings and plans
submitted for approval be accompanied by a certificate of such architect or
structural engineer preparing such drawing and plans, and that such drawings
and plans have the architect’s or structural engineer’s licensed seal stamped
on the drawings submitted.
      (3)   Alterations to and deviations from plans. It shall be unlawful to
erase, alter or modify any lines, figures or coloring contained upon such
drawings so stamped by the Building Commissioner or filed with him or her for
reference. If, during the progress of the execution of such work, it is desired
to deviate in any manner affecting the construction or other essentials of the
building from the terms of the application or drawing, notice of such intention
to alter or deviate shall be given to the Building Commissioner, and his or her
written assent shall first be obtained before such alteration or deviation may
be made; but alterations in building which do not involve any change in their
structural parts or of their stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means
of communication or ingress or egress or in lighting or ventilation, and that
are not in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter and the zoning
requirements may be made without the permission of the Building Commissioner.
      (4)   Plan review required. The Building Commissioner or designee shall
review all plans and the fees for such plan review are established as follows:
 
Commercial/business new construction plan fee    $20
Residential new construction plan fee            $15
Remodeling existing commercial/business plan fee $15
Remodeling existing residential plan fee         $10
 
   (D)   Compliance with water and street regulations. Before the Building
Commissioner issues a permit, he or she shall require evidence from the
applicant that payment has been made to the Water Department of the village for
the water to be used or for a water meter for measuring all the water to be
used in the construction of such building. Such applicant shall produce
evidence that he or she has complied with all the requirements of this code
relative to water regulations and shall produce evidence that he or she has
complied with all the requirements of this code as to use of the streets and
alleys of the village by reason of any proposed obstruction or occupation
thereof in and about such building operations.
   (E)   Time limit for construction; extended permits. If, after the permit
required by division (A) above shall have been granted, the operations called
for by the permit shall not be begun within 90 days or are not completed within
one year, then such permit shall be void, and no operations thereunder shall be
begun or completed until an extended permit shall be taken out by the owner or
his or her agent. A fee of 10% of the original cost of permit shall be charged
for such extended permit.
   (F)   Revocation of permits; reissuance. If the work in, upon or about any
building or structure shall be conducted in violation of any of the provisions
of this village code, the Building Commissioner shall revoke the permit of the
building or wrecking operations in connection with which such violation shall
have taken place. It shall be unlawful, after the revocation of such permit, to
proceed with such building or wrecking operations unless such permit shall
first have been reinstated or reissued by the Building Commissioner. Before a
permit so revoked may be lawfully reissued, the entire building and building
site shall first be put into condition corresponding with the requirements of
this village code, and any work or material applied to the same in violation of
this village code shall be first removed from such building, and for such
permit as reissued, the fee required for a new permit shall be paid.
   (G)   Exemptions from permit requirements.
      (1)   A permit will not be required for ordinary repair work incidental
to the upkeep of a building or structure; provided, there is not contemplated
or involved, any change in the classification or any increase in the fire
hazard thereof; nor the removal or installing of any external wall; nor the
removal of any supporting wall, column, post, truss, girder or beam; nor
installing, closing or changing any stair, stair-hall, fire escape, scuttle,
skylight, door, window or other means of communication, ingress, egress,
ventilation or for the admission of sunlight; nor changing the number, location
or connections of the fixtures, traps, vents, waste, soil or drain pipes of the
plumbing system; nor changing the number, location or connections of the
fixtures of the lighting system; nor changing to a different system of lighting
or ventilating; nor recovering of roofs or the renewing of the exterior
woodwork of any frame building, structure or portion thereof.
      (2)   Nothing in this section contained shall be interpreted or construed
to allow any work included in the permit exemptions thereof to be done in any
manner contrary to the requirements of this village code. Violations of this
subchapter in any work not required to be done under a permit shall be subject
to the general penalty provisions of this code the same as if a permit had been
required.
      (3)   Before such repairs shall be made, notification thereof by the
contractor shall be filed with the Building Commissioner if the cost of such
work exceeds $100.
   (H)   Temporary building permits. For the purpose of facilitating the
commencement of lawful building operations, the Building Commissioner may
authorize such operations to commence and proceed for such limited time, not
exceeding 20 days, as the Building Commissioner may deem and fix as sufficient
to allow the owner, his or her architect or agent to complete the filing of
detailed plans and other data required for the issuance of the final permit.
Temporary permits will be revocable at the will of the Building Commissioner.
In case new buildings or structures are to be erected, the work shall not be
carried above the level of the grade line, nor above the level of the first
tier of girders, beams, floor joists or first floor proper. The applicant for a
temporary permit shall furnish the Building Commissioner with sufficient
preliminary plans and data to enable the Building Commissioner to determine
that the work to be commenced and proposed subsequently to be done is of a
lawful nature. The applicant shall pay to the village as a fee for a temporary
permit the sum provided in §
151.038 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.037 ANNUAL INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Annual inspections for certain buildings. The Building Commissioner
and his or her assistants shall make an annual inspection of all theaters and
places of amusement, worship, instruction or entertainment, and also of all
other buildings over two stories in height, except residences. It shall be the
duty of every owner, agent, lessee or occupant of any such building, as is
referred to in this section, to permit the making of such inspection by the
Building Commissioner or by a duly authorized building inspector at any time
upon demand being duly made.
   (B)   Inspection results; remedies. Where the result of such inspection
shall show that such building fails in any respect to comply with the
requirements of this village code, the Building Commissioner shall notify the
owner, agent, lessee or occupant of such building to this effect and shall
specify wherein such building fails to comply with the requirements of this
village code, and it shall thereupon become the joint and several duty of such
owner, agent, lessee or occupant to proceed forthwith to make whatever changes
or alterations may be necessary to make such building comply in all respects
with the requirements of this village code and to complete such changes and
alterations within 30 days after the receipt of such notice.
   (C)   Inspection fee; exemptions. Upon making such annual inspection, it
shall be the duty of the owner to pay to the Village Collector an annual
inspection fee for the same as prescribed in §
151.038 of this chapter; provided, however, that, no charge for such inspection
shall be made against religious, charitable or educational institutions.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
§ 151.038 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   The following permits and inspection fees for the following designated
permits and inspections shall be charged:
Activity Fee
Activity                                   Fee
Cancellations of all scheduled, confirmed
rental, sale inspections, related housing
and permit inspections, including, but not $250
limited to, no call no show, no access or
entrance (including postage fee)
Crime-free lease addendum by the date of   $100
inspection
Increase rental inspection ticket fee when $1,000
found in violation
Less than 1-hour cancellations of
scheduled, confirmed rental, sale          $100
inspections
Mailing certificate of rental processing   $5, plus postage fee
fee
Mandatory landlord training fee            $50
Physical print-outs of inspection reports  $5 a page/$2.50 per additional page
PSN online payments service charges        $3 ($2.65 VOD, including $0.35 PSN
                                           surcharge)
Rental, business and contractor
registration licenses processing fee       $5
(physical printed copies only
Same day inspection fee (for emergencies)  $250
surcharge
 
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. passed 1-11-1983; Ord. 07-410, passed 8-6-2007;
Ord. 23-010, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 151.039 ADDITIONAL CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Multiple-family dwelling units. In addition to the requirements for
apartments as set forth in the Basic Building Code, the following requirements
shall prevail.
      (1)   Face brick is required on all sides of the multiple-family dwelling
units.
      (2)   Concrete flooring shall be provided in all multiple-family dwelling
units.
      (3)   On all solid masonry buildings, all outside walls are to be
insulated with one-inch approved insulation material.
   (B)   Single-family dwelling units. In addition to the requirements for
single-family dwelling units as set forth in the Basic Building Code, the
following shall prevail.
      (1)   The front of each structure shall be of face brick, ornamental
brick or stone, or a combination thereof.
      (2)   The building shall be constructed of a minimum of 50% masonry. No
hollow siding shall be permitted on the balance of the exterior. Only backed
siding shall be allowed.
      (3)   On all solid masonry buildings, all outside walls are to be
insulated with one-inch approved insulation material.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5)
§ 151.040 SECURITY LOCKING SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Definition. A KEY BOX SYSTEM is a rapid-entry key access system
designed to permit emergency personnel access to a building, which is installed
by the owner of the building in a location on the building as directed by this
section and containing the items as directed by this section.
   (B)   Security locking system required. All buildings, regardless of use or
occupancy, except residential buildings having less than five dwelling units,
which contains two or more separate use and occupancy units; and when access to
or within a structure or an area is unduly difficult because of secured
openings and where immediate access is necessary for life saving or
firefighting purposes, shall have installed an approved key box system.
   (C)   Approval of systems. The Chief of the Fire Department shall review and
approve the type of key box system for use within the village, subject to the
approval of the Village President and Board of Trustees; except that, there
shall be no more than two types of key box systems approved.
   (D)   Location of key box. The Chief of the Fire Department shall require a
key box system to be installed in an accessible location as follows: the
approved key box shall be mounted on the exterior of the building not more than
three feet from the front entrance door, at a height of not more than ten feet
above ground level.
   (E)   Contents of key box. Key boxes shall contain:
      (1)   Keys to locked points of ingress, whether on the interior or
exterior of such buildings;
      (2)   Keys to locked mechanical rooms;
      (3)   Keys to locked electrical rooms;
      (4)   Keys to elevator controls; and
      (5)   Keys to other areas as directed by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (F)   Application and effect of provisions.
      (1)   This section shall apply to both new construction and existing
buildings located in the village.
      (2)   Time of application of the requirements established in this section
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Immediately as to all new construction for which a final
certificate of occupancy has not yet been issued as of the effective date
hereof; and
         (b)   One year from the effective date hereof as to all existing
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6) (Ord. passed 1-4-1983)
§ 151.041 SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   Smoke detectors required.
      (1)   Every single-family dwelling unit and existing multiple-family
dwelling unit, as defined by the Basic Building Code published by the Building
Officials Conference of America, Inc., as adopted by §
151.035 of this chapter, shall have installed therein approved smoke detectors.
      (2)   Not less than one smoke detector, of an approved type, as described
in division (C) below, shall be installed on every level of a dwelling unit.
Smoke detectors shall also be located in each hallway, stairway, and within ten
feet of each sleeping area on each level of the dwelling.
   (B)   Installation and number of detectors.
      (1)   The smoke detectors shall be installed on the ceiling and at least
12 inches from any wall, or on a wall located 12 inches from the ceiling, and
within ten feet of all rooms used for sleeping purposes, with not less than one
approved smoke detector per living level containing a habitable room or
unenclosed heating plant.
      (2)   Every owner, manager or agent of any building, as described in
division (A) above, shall install in every dwelling unit not less than one
approved smoke detector on the uppermost ceiling, not less than 12 inches from
any wall, or on a wall located 12 inches from the uppermost ceiling of all
interior stairwells, with not less than one detector per living level
containing a habitable room or unenclosed heating plant.
   (C)   Standards for smoke detectors.
      (1)   All approved smoke detectors required in this section shall be the
ionization or photoelectric type, either battery-powered or hard wire 110 volt
AC and shall comply with all the requirements of the Underwriters Laboratories,
Inc. Standard UL 217 (Standard for Safety-Single and Multiple Station Smoke
Detectors) (1976) 2nd Edition, 10-4-1978, as revised 5-19-1983.
      (2)   Smoke detectors shall be the label of a nationally recognized
standards testing laboratory that indicates that the smoke detectors have been
tested and listed under the requirements of UL 217 (1976) 2nd Edition, 10-4-
1978, as revised 5-19-1983.
   (D)   Testing and maintenance in multiple-unit buildings.
      (1)   In a multiple-unit building, the owner shall be responsible for
testing and maintaining detectors in common stairwells.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the tenant to provide and
maintain functional batteries for each detector test and maintain detectors
within dwelling units and to notify the owner or authorized agent in writing of
any deficiencies.
      (3)   The owner shall be responsible for providing each tenant with
written information regarding detector testing and maintenance.
   (E)   Tampering with detectors. It shall be unlawful for any person to
remove batteries or in any way make inoperable smoke detectors as provided for
in this section; except that, this provision shall not apply to any building
owner or manager or his or her agent in the normal procedure of replacing
batteries.
   (F)   Effect of provisions.
      (1)   Multiple-family dwellings. Smoke detectors required by this section
shall be installed within three months from the effective date hereof in all
multiple dwellings, as defined herein.
      (2)   Single-family dwellings. Smoke detectors required in single-family
dwellings, as defined herein, shall be installed within six months from the
effective date hereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7) (Ord. passed 4-3-1985; Ord. 91-155, passed 5-28-1991)
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.042 WRECKING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful to proceed with the wrecking or
tearing down of any building or other structure without a permit for such
wrecking or tearing down first being obtained by the owner or his or her agent
from the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Application for permit; issuance. Application for such permit shall be
made by such owner or his or her agent to the Building Commissioner who shall
issue such permit upon such application and the payment of the fee provided for
in this subchapter.
   (C)   Bond requirements. Before any permit is issued granting authority to
wreck a building or structure for which such permit is required, the person
engaged in the work of wrecking same shall file with the Building Department a
bond of $20,000 with sureties to be approved by the President and Board of
Trustees to indemnify, keep and save harmless the village against any loss,
cost, damage, expense, judgment or liability of any kind whatsoever which the
village may suffer or which may accrue against, be charged to or be recovered
from the village or any of its officials, from or by reason or on account of
accidents to persons or property during any such wrecking operations. Such bond
in each case shall extend over the period of and cover all such wrecking
operations.
   (D)   Supervision; requirements and restrictions. Upon the issuance of such
permit, such building may be wrecked or torn down; provided that, all the work
done thereunder shall be subject to the supervision of the Building
Commissioner and to such reasonable restrictions as he or she may impose in
regard to elements of safety and health; and, provided further that, the work
shall be kept sprinkled and sufficient scaffolding be provided to ensure safety
to human life.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8)
§ 151.043 OUTSIDE BURGLARY SECURITY WINDOW BARS.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of any building or structure utilized for
business, industrial or commercial purposes, within the village, shall not
permit bars, grills, roller shutters or other similar security devices to be
attached, hung, affixed or otherwise connected to the outside of windows.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all buildings or
structures in which all or any part of the buildings or structures are utilized
for business, industrial or commercial purposes, except those buildings and
structures which are utilized for warehousing purposes.
   (C)   Every owner or occupant of a building or structure in which all or any
part of said building or structure are utilized for business, industrial or
commercial purposes which shall be in violation of these provisions shall have
90 days from the effective date of this section to comply with the provisions
of this section.
(Ord. 97-339, passed 7-21-1997) Penalty, see §
151.999
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 151.055 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the “Electrical Code of the Village of
Dolton”.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 151.056 CHICAGO ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted; interpretation.
      (1)   The Chicago Electrical Code, 1985 edition, is hereby adopted by
reference, pursuant to authority of Illinois Revised Statutes; provided that,
in the event any of the provisions of the Chicago Electrical Code are in
conflict with the state law or with any other ordinance of the village, the
state law and such other village ordinance shall prevail.
      (2)   In addition to the three copies of the Chicago Electrical Code
which have been on file for more than 30 days in the office of the Village
Clerk for use and examination by the public and which are presently on file in
the office of the Clerk, at least one copy of the Chicago Electrical Code shall
be kept on file in the office of the Building Commissioner for public
inspection.
   (B)   Penalties. Whoever violates any of the provisions of the Chicago
Electrical Code edition adopted by this section shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished by a fine in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. passed 5-15-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.057 ELECTRICAL PERMITS.
   No electrical equipment shall be installed or altered except upon a permit
issued by the Electrical Inspection Division. The Electrical Inspection
Division shall issue permits for such installation and alteration of electrical
equipment in all cases where application for such permits shall be made in
accordance with the rules and regulations applicable thereto; provided,
however, that, no permit shall be issued for installation or altering by
contract, electrical equipment, unless the person applying for such permit is
registered in this or another municipality and bonded as an electrical
contractor as required by this village code, and plans and specifications have
been approved by the Electrical Inspection Division.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3)
§ 151.058 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Notice requesting inspection required; failure to request inspection.
Any person installing electric wires or equipment in any building in the
village which is to be hidden from view, shall notify the Building Commissioner
or assistant, in writing, of such intended installation at least 24 hours
before the work is to be covered, and no such work shall be covered until
inspection thereof has been made as herein required. In all cases where such
notice has not been given or such work has been covered without inspection
thereof, as herein provided, the Building Commissioner or assistant is
authorized to take down or remove such portions of the building or structure as
shall be necessary for the inspection of such electric wires or equipment, as
herein required, and the cost of such taking down and replacing the work so
removed by such official shall be borne by the person who has failed to give
notice of the installation thereof, or by the person who has covered the work
after such notice and before inspection thereof as herein provided, as the case
may be.
   (B)   Certificate of inspection. Whenever any electrical equipment has been
installed or altered, no electrical current shall be supplied to or used on
such equipment previous to the inspection of such equipment by the Electrical
Inspection Division and the issuance of a certificate of inspection covering
such installation or alteration; provided that, the Inspection Division may
issue a temporary certificate for the use of electrical current during the
course of construction or alteration of buildings, which temporary certificate
shall expire when the construction or alteration of such building is complete.
   (C)   Entry powers. The Electrical Inspector and his or her assistants shall
have the power to enter buildings or premises at any reasonable hour in the
discharge of their duties, and it shall be competent for them when necessary to
remove any existing obstructions such as laths, plastering or boarding which
may prevent a perfect inspection of the electrical equipment.
   (D)   Interference with Electrical Inspector. It shall be unlawful for any
person to interfere with the Electrical Inspectors in the performance of their
duties.
   (E)   Police to assist Electrical Inspectors. Whenever, in the opinion of
the Electrical Inspector, it shall be necessary to call upon the Police
Department for aid and assistance in carrying out or enforcing any of the
provisions of this subchapter governing the inspection of electrical equipment,
he or she shall have the authority to do so, and it shall be the duty of any
member of the Department of Police, when called upon by the Electrical
Inspector, to act according to the instructions of and to perform such duties
as may be required by the Chief Electrical Inspector in order to enforce or put
into effect the provisions of this subchapter relating to the inspection of
electrical equipment.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.059 FEES.
   (A)   Inspection fees.   
      (1)   The fees for the inspection of wiring of any buildings or of any
electrical apparatus to be paid to the village shall read as follows.
      (2)   The term CIRCUIT, as used herein, shall mean any set of branch
lighting conditions which have been extended from a distribution center, and
which may be utilized for the transmission of electrical energy.
         (a)   Except in single-family dwellings (division (A)(6) below), the
inspection fee of each nominal 15-ampere and 20-ampere, two-wire circuit,
including fixtures, sockets or receptacles, shall be:
 
Circuits      15 Amperes                    20 Amperes
26 - 50       $3 each additional circuit    $3.50 each additional circuit
51 - 75       $2.50 each additional circuit $3.25 each additional circuit
76 - 100      $2.25 each additional circuit $3 each additional circuit
More than 100 $2 each additional circuit    $2.90 each additional circuit
 
         (b)   For the inspection of a 50-ampere fixed lighting circuit, the
inspection fee shall be three times the amount of a 15-ampere circuit.
      (3)   For the inspection of each two-wire branch lighting circuit,
including fixtures, sockets or receptacles, the fee shall be as provided in
division (A)(2) above.
         (a)   For each three-wire circuit of nominal 15-ampere or 20-ampere,
the fee shall be based on double the number of circuits as provided in division
(A)(2) above.
         (b)   For each three-phase four-wire circuit of capacities of nominal
15-ampere and 20- ampere capacities, the fee shall be three times the number of
circuits as provided in division (A)(2) above.
         (c)   For the inspection of additional outlets on existing circuits
and including the fixtures, sockets or receptacles attached to such outlets,
the fee shall be $1 for each outlet.
      (4)   Inspection fees for rewiring or remodeling existing installations
where no new circuits, motors or current-consuming devices are being installed
shall be computed on a time charge basis at the rate of $11 per hour. These
charges shall be as follows:
Load in KW or HP (Change HP to KW)
Load in KW or HP (Change HP to KW)
Minimum fee $11
1 - 10      $11
11 - 25     $27.50
26 - 50     $33
51 - 150    $38.50
151 - 250   $44
251 - 350   $49.50
351 - 500   $55
 
      (5)   For the separate inspection of fixtures and sockets for lamps of 50
watt or less rating and for the inspection of receptacles for current-consuming
devices of one-quarter horsepower or less, inspection fees, where the circuits
were installed and inspection fee paid for by others or to existing circuits in
replacement jobs, shall be:
Fixtures, Sockets and Receptacles
(Lamps of 50 Watts) (Not Including Circuit Wiring)
Inc. Lamps Fee      Inc. Lamps Fee
Fixtures, Sockets and Receptacles
(Lamps of 50 Watts) (Not Including Circuit Wiring)
Inc. Lamps Fee      Inc. Lamps Fee
1 - 15     $1.75    101 to 110 $8
16 - 20    $2       111 to 120 $8.50
21 - 25    $2.80    121 to 130 $9
26 - 30    $3.40    131 to 140 $9.50
31 - 40    $4       141 to 150 $9.75
41 - 50    $4.50    151 to 160 $10.25
51 - 60    $5.25    161 to 170 $10.75
61 - 70    $5.75    171 to 180 $11.25
71 - 80    $6.25    181 to 190 $11.75
81 - 90    $7       191 to 200 $12
91 - 100   $7.50
Above 200 lamps: $0.40 cents for each group of 25 lamps or fraction thereof
 
      (6)   For the inspection of original installations of a single-family
residence, including all circuits, fixtures, receptacles and equipment, the
fees shall be:
Interior Floor Area Used as Living Space
Interior Floor Area Used as Living Space
0 - 499 square feet        $12.50
500 - 799 square feet      $14.50
800 - 1,099 square feet    $17
1,100 - 1,399 square feet  $20
1,400 - 1,699 square feet  $23.20
1,700 - 1,999 square feet  $27
2,000 - 2,399 square feet  $31.50
2,400 square feet and over $36.50
 
      (7)   For the inspection of each electrical motor or current-consuming
device, other than lighting fixtures, the inspection fee shall be as follows:
 
1 motor or current-consuming device               $7.50
Each additional motor or current-consuming device $2.50
Motors of 1/4 horsepower or less on existing circuit to be charged on an
equivalent incandescent-lamp basis
 
      (8)   Inspection fees for cut-over jobs shall be on a time basis of $11
per hour. These time charges shall be approximately as follows:
 
Minimum fee $11
 
      (9)   (a)   Light loads and motor of 1/4 H.P. or less:
1 - 10 KW    $11
11 - 25 KW   $27.50
26 - 50 KW   $33
51 - 100 KW  $38
151 - 250 KW $44
251 - 350 KW $49.50
351 - 500 KW $53
501 and over $58
$5 for each 50 KW or fraction thereof
 
         (b)   Motor or appliances: $0.55 each and $0.30 per horsepower for
total horsepower.
         (c)   Changes: three-phase to three-phase four-wire (no change of
motor or panels); inspection fees shall be on a time basis of $11 per hour.
      (10)   Inspection of temporary installations, underground or overhead
wires and apparatus, and all other inspections not specifically provided for
herein shall be charged for at the rate of $11 per hour.
      (11)   Inspection fees for reinspection of any electrical apparatus
altered, changed or repaired shall be at the rate of $11 per hour.
      (12)   Where extra inspections are made because of inaccurate or
incorrect information, failure to make necessary repairs or faulty
construction, a charge of $11 shall be made for each such inspection.
      (13)   For the inspection of the electrical work in connection with
displays, exhibitions, carnivals and similar temporary installations, the
inspection fees shall be as follows:
 
Connected loads of less than 10 KW     $12
Connected loads of 11 KW to 50 KW      $33.75
Connected loads of 51 KW to 100 KW     $45
Connected loads of 101 KW to 200 KW    $50.50
Connected loads of 201 KW to 300 KW    $56.25
Additional connected loads over 300 KW $6 for each 200 KW or fraction thereof
 
      (14)   For the inspection of electrical interior communication systems
and burglar alarms, the inspection fees shall be as follows:
 
Aural communication systems  $15
Low voltage burglar alarms   $11
Master antenna systems       $15
Visual communication systems $15
 
      (15)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(6) above for single-
family dwellings and as is provided in division (A)(17) below, the inspection
fees for services shall be as follows:
40-ampere (2-wire)               $30
50-ampere (2-wire)               $30
60-ampere (2 or 3-wire)          $30
100-ampere (3 or 4-wire)         $30
101 - 200-ampere (3 or 4-wire)   $40
201 - 300-ampere (3 or 4-wire)   $45
301 - 400-ampere (3 or 4-wire)   $45
401 - 600-ampere (3 or 4-wire)   $45
601 - 800-ampere (3 or 4-wire)   $50
801 - 1,000-ampere (3 or 4-wire) $60
 
         (b)   Fees for services in excess of 1,000 amperes shall be computed
on the basis of the rating of the service disconnects installed, prorated
according to the schedule above, and shall include feeders, risers and all
wiring and equipment up to the branch circuit distribution panels or motor
power panels or control centers.
         (c)   Fees for the inspection of vaults shall be $30 for each vault.
      (16)   Inspection fees for the original installation of commercial street
lighting equipment shall be at the rate of $4 for each lamppost or festoon.
Annual compensation and reinspection fees shall be at the rate of $3 for each
lamppost or festoon.
      (17)   No inspection shall be made for a less amount than $30.
   (B)   Plan examination fees. The fees for examination of plans shall be as
follows:
 
Emergency lighting system   $9
Hospital, complete          $25
Motor control center        $12
Standard fire alarm systems $12
Switchboard                 $12
Theater, complete           $20
All others at $11 per hour, minimum 1 hour
 
   (C)   Illuminated signs and signboards, permit and inspection fees.
      (1)   Permit fees and subsequent annual inspection fees for illuminated
signs projecting over public property shall be the same and shall be computed
at the rate of $0.50 per square foot of area of each face. Area of skeleton
letter signs shall be computed as that area within the perimeter design of
letters. No fee shall be less than $10.
      (2)   Permit fees and subsequent annual inspection fees for illuminated
signs over private property and for illuminated signs flat against a building
and for illumination of painted wall signs or illumination of signboards shall
be computed as follows.
         (a)   Twenty-five nominal 50-watt or 50 volt-ampere lamps or less
shall be $10 to which shall be added 300 for each of the next 25 lamps; 170 for
each of the next 25 lamps; 150 for each of the next 25 lamps; 120 for each of
the next 100 lamps; 110 for each of the next 100 lamps; and 100 for each
additional lamp over 300.
         (b)   Fees, if lamps are of other than 50-watt or 50-volt-ampere
rating, shall be based on the total connected load reduced to 50 volt-ampere
units and the above schedule applied.
         (c)   In addition, where the sign is erected entirely over and above
the roof of the building, except as described in § 86.1-14(e) of the Chicago
Electrical Code, the permit fee and subsequent annual inspection fee for
inspection of the structure shall be $115 for first 500 square feet, and $0.12
each per square foot over 500. Area shall be computed on the actual area of
display surface.
      (3)   If the sign is supported from the ground by an independent
structure other than poles, the top of which structure is more than 24 feet
above the level of the adjoining street level or above the adjoining ground
level if such ground level is above street level, the same permit fees as
provided in division (C)(2) above, including fees for inspection of structure,
shall apply.
      (4)   The fee for permits issued for re-erection or alteration of any
illuminated sign or for illumination on signboards shall be $10.
      (5)   The fees for permits issued for illuminated signs to be erected for
a period not to exceed 30 days shall be one-quarter of the permanent sign fee.
      (6)   No fee shall be less than $10.
      (7)   The fee for cancellation of a permit shall be $10 and shall be
deducted before the remaining amount is refunded.
   (D)   Electrical heat permit fee. The fee for each electrical heat permit
would be $5 per circuit.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) (Ord. passed 5-15-1984)
§ 151.060 DEAD OR DEFECTIVE WIRES.
   (A)   Dead wires. The Building Commissioner shall have the right to cause
all dead wires outside and inside of buildings to be removed at the expense of
the owner of such wires, by giving the owner ten days’ written notice so to do
and, if the owner fails or neglects to remove such wires within ten days after
receipt of such notice, such person shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$5, nor more than $50 for each and every 48 hours such wires are permitted to
remain in place after expiration of the time fixed in such notice for the
removal of same as aforesaid.
   (B)   Defective wires. The Building Commissioner shall have the right to
condemn wires which are defective and dangerous to life or property, and shall
notify the owner of such wires, in writing, to remove or replace the same with
new wires.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.061 DEFECTIVE WORK.
   (A)   In case the Electrical Inspector or his or her assistants find a
defect in any electrical apparatus or equipment subject to inspection in the
village, such Inspector shall report the same in writing to the persons for
whom the test is being made, using blanks furnished by the village for that
purpose and giving a description of the character of the defect. If the defect
is of a dangerous character, necessitating immediate repair, the Electrical
Inspector shall forthwith condemn the apparatus or equipment for further use,
or until the same is removed, repaired or renewed.
   (B)   If the defect is of a character such that the apparatus or equipment
may be safely operated for a period of some days pending repairs, the
Electrical Inspector shall so report and name the number of days during which
the same may be operated.
   (C)   A duplicate of all such reports shall be promptly filed in the office
of the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7)
§ 151.062 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS TO BE LICENSED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of electrical
contractor without being licensed as an electrical contractor.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.063 NON-LIABILITY OF VILLAGE.
   Any official or employee of the village charged with the administration or
enforcement of this code and acting for the village in the discharge of such
duties shall not thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved
of all personal liability, for any and all damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted under the provisions of
this code, and any suit or legal action brought against any official or
employee because of any act performed in the administration or enforcement of
the provisions of this code shall be defended by the Village Attorney until
final termination of the proceedings, and the village shall assume any and all
financial liability thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-9)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 151.075 BOCA BASIC PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted.
      (1)   There is hereby adopted by the village for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the design and installation of plumbing
systems that certain Basic National Plumbing Code published by the Building
Officials Conference of America, Inc., as provided for in §
151.001 of this chapter, and from and after the date on which this code shall
take effect, the provisions of said Plumbing Code shall be controlling in the
design and installation of all plumbing systems contained within the corporate
limits of the village to the extent hereinafter provided.
      (2)   (a)   Whenever the word “Municipality” is used in said Plumbing
Code, it shall be held to mean the “Village of Dolton”.
         (b)   Whenever the words “plumbing official” are used in said Plumbing
Code, they shall be held to mean the “Building Commissioner of the Village”.
   (B)   Amendments to code. The “Fee Schedule” and “Means of Appeal” sections
are hereby entirely deleted from the Basic National Plumbing Code.
   (C)   Application of code provisions. This code is applied to all plumbing,
drain laying and gas fitting done in connection with the construction,
alteration or repairing of any and all buildings, structures or partitions
thereof in the village and same shall be performed by a licensed plumbing
contractor as required by this code.
   (D)   Plumbing systems. There is hereby adopted by the village for the
purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the design and installation
of plumbing systems, the Illinois Plumbing Code as provided for in 77 Ill. Adm.
Code part 890 (1993), and from and after the date on which this code shall take
effect, the provisions of said Plumbing Code shall be controlling in the design
and installation of all plumbing systems contained within the corporate limits
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. passed 5-15-1984; Ord. 94-269, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 151.076 PLUMBING PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required; restrictions. No plumbing equipment including fire
sprinkler system or stand pipe shall be installed or altered, except upon a
permit first issued by the Building Department. The Building Department shall
issue permits for such installation and alteration of equipment in all cases
where application for such permits shall be made in accordance with the rules
and regulations applicable thereto; provided, however, that, no permit shall be
issued for installing or altering by contract such equipment unless the person
applying for such permit is licensed and bonded as a plumbing contractor as
required by this village code and plans and specifications have been approved
by the Building Department.
   (B)   Delay in work; permit revoked. Unreasonable delay in the performance
of any plumbing or draining work shall be deemed a sufficient cause for the
suspension of the license of any such offending plumber. Such plumber shall be
served with a notice granting a period of 48 hours in which to commence or
complete such work. Failure to comply with such notice shall be sufficient
cause for the cancellation of any permit or permits which may have been issued
to said plumber. A new permit may then be issued to any other qualified firm or
person for the work.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2)
§ 151.077 PLANS AND DRAWINGS.
   (A)   The plans and drawings filed with the Building Commissioner shall show
the entire sewerage, drain, soil, waste, vent and supply pipes and the
locations of plumbing fixtures, water meter and such other details as may be
required within the building or structure. In submitting plans for additional
or reconstruction work, the old or original shall be indicated in black or blue
lines and the new, additional or reconstruction work by red lines.
   (B)   All sizes of pipes and traps shall be plainly marked.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3)
§ 151.078 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Certificate of inspection.
      (1)   The Building Department shall inspect all plumbing installed or
altered, and shall require that it conform to the standards and specifications
applicable thereto and adopted as aforesaid, and upon completion of such
installation or alteration in compliance with such standards and
specifications, shall immediately issue a certificate of inspection covering
such installation or alteration.
      (2)   Whenever any plumbing has been installed or altered, none of said
equipment shall be turned on previous to the inspection of such equipment by
the Building Department and the issuance of a certificate of inspection
covering such installation or alteration; provided that, the Building
Department may issue a temporary certificate for the use of such equipment
during the course of construction or alteration of buildings which temporary
certificate shall expire when the construction or alteration of such building
is complete.
   (B)   Entry powers. The Plumbing Inspector and his or her assistants shall
have the power to enter buildings or premises at any reasonable hour in the
discharge of their duties, and it shall be competent for them, when necessary,
to remove any existing obstructions such as laths, plastering, boarding or
partitions which may prevent a perfect inspection of the equipment.
   (C)   Interference with plumbing inspectors. It shall be unlawful for any
person to interfere with the Plumbing Inspectors in the performance of their
duties.
   (D)   Police to assist Plumbing Inspectors. Whenever, in the opinion of the
Plumbing Inspector, it shall be necessary to call upon the Police Department
for aid and assistance in carrying out or enforcing any of the provisions of
this subchapter governing the inspection of plumbing installations, he or she
shall have the authority to do so, and it shall be the duty of any member of
the Department of Police, when called upon by the Plumbing Inspector to act
according to the instructions of and to perform such duties as may be required
by the Building Committee in order to enforce or put into effect the provisions
of this subchapter relating to the inspection of plumbing installations.
   (E)   Reinspections.
      (1)   The Building Department is hereby empowered to reinspect any
plumbing installations and when such installations are found to be unsafe to
life or property, shall notify the person owning, using or operating same to
place the same in a safe and secure condition and in compliance with the
standards and specifications described herein within such time as the Building
Department shall consider just and reasonable.
      (2)   Upon refusal or willful failure to comply with the requirements of
such notifications, in addition to the penalties otherwise provided herein, the
Building Department may order and compel the cutting off and stopping of such
plumbing installations until such plumbing installations have been placed in a
safe and secure condition and in compliance with the standards and
specifications referred to herein.
      (3)   No inspection fee shall be charged for such reinspection, but in
case it becomes necessary to replace such plumbing installations on account of
defects disclosed by such reinspection, a permit therefor shall be obtained and
an inspection fee paid as provided for in §
151.079 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4)
§ 151.079 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   No permit, as required by this code, shall be issued until the fee
prescribed in this subchapter shall have been paid, nor shall an amendment to
any permit be approved until the additional fee, if any, shall have been paid.
Fire sprinkler system or standpipe
   Minimum fee                    $100
   1 - 15,000 sq. ft.             $200
   Over 15,000 sq. ft.            $400
Plumbing fixtures within one building
   First 5 fixtures               $50
   Each additional fixture        $8
   Note: plumbing fixtures shall include air conditioning units, automatic
washers and similar units
Water and sewer, single-family residential
   To be established by contract based on type and use of facilities
      Sewer connection         $75
      Sewer tap fees           $155
      Water main connection    $250
      Water stud installation  $135
   Parkway opening deposit        $150
Water main and sewer connection;     To be established by contract based on
business, industrial or other than   type and use of facilities provided by
single-family residential            separate ordinance
                                     To be established by contract based on
Water main or sewer extension charge type and use of facilities provided by
                                     separate ordinance
Water meters
   5/8 in.                        $150
   3/4 in.                        $175
   1 in.                          $225
   1-1/2 in.                      $325
   2 in.                          $1,250
   3 in.                          $1,485
   4 in.                          $2,420
 
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5) (Ord. passed 5-15-1984; Ord. 07-410, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.080 SUPERVISION OF PLUMBING WORK.
   All work pertaining to the water system on the street side of the stop box
and including such stop box and its connections, also all work pertaining to
the meter and its connections on any premises in the village and all other
plumbing installations and plumbing work in the construction of any building
shall be under the supervision of the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6)
§ 151.081 RECORDS KEPT.
   The Building Department shall keep complete records of all permits issued
and inspections made and other official work performed under the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7)
§ 151.082 FIXTURES, ACCESSORIES AND TOILET FACILITIES.
   (A)   Use and care. All plumbing fixtures, such as water closets, urinals,
sinks, lavatories, bath and the like, shall be used only for the purpose for
which they are intended; and all such fixtures shall be kept in a sanitary and
clean condition. No other paper than what is commonly known as “toilet paper”
shall be placed in any water closet or allowed to enter any soil pipe.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Each dwelling or apartment unit on premises abutting on a sewer or
with a private sewage disposal system shall have at least one water closet, one
handwashing lavatory, one kitchen sink, bathtub and laundry trays for each four
apartments. All other structures for human occupancy or use shall have adequate
sanitary facilities, but in no case less than one water closet and one
handwashing lavatory or other similar fixture for each sex for cleansing
purposes.
      (2)   Each complete bathroom shall be provided with:
         (a)   Grab bar and soap dish at bathtub;
         (b)   Toilet paper holder at water closet;
         (c)   Soap dish at lavatory;
         (d)   Towel bar;
         (e)   Medicine cabinet; and
         (f)   In all cases where shower head is installed, provide a shower
rod or shower door and soap dish.
      (3)   Each half bath shall be provided with divisions (B)(2)(a) through
(B)(2)(f) above.
      (4)   All fixtures shall be securely supported so that no strain is
placed on the connected piping. Unless otherwise recommended by the
manufacturer, bathtub rims at wall shall be supported by metal hangers or end
grain of wood blocks secured to wall construction.
      (5)   Safe pans shall be installed under all tile, terrazzo, concrete or
precast concrete shower floors.
         (a)   Pans shall be of four pound PSF lead or 12 ounces of PSF copper.
         (b)   Surfaces of lead pans exposed to concrete shall be heavily
coated with asphalt compound.
         (c)   Pans laid on wood floors shall be protected against nail popping
by one layer of 30- pound asphalt-saturated felt placed between pans and wood
floors.
         (d)   Sides of pans shall be turned up a minimum of six inches.
Corners shall be formed by folding.
         (e)   Shower drain shall be of the double drainage flange pattern with
weep holes and flashing clamp device for attachment of the safe pan.
         (f)   Shower compartments shall have not less than 1,024 square inches
in floor area and shall not be less than 30 inches in shortest dimension.
         (g)   Shower compartments shall have walls and ceiling constructed of
smooth, non- corrosive and non-absorbent, water-proof materials.
         (h)   Built-in tubs with overhead showers shall have water-proof
joints between the tub and water-proof wall.
      (6)   Drinking fountains:
         (a)   Offices, public buildings, dormitories and other places of
employment provide one drinking fountain per each 75 persons;
         (b)   Theaters and auditoriums provide one drinking fountain for each
100 persons. Over 1,000 persons, add one fixture for each additional 1,000
persons; and
         (c)   Drinking fountain bubblers shall not be installed in conjunction
with, or connected to, a handwashing lavatory.
      (7)   Lavatories or washrooms:
         (a)   Offices, public buildings and other places of employment:
 
No. of Persons No. of Fixtures
1 - 15         1
16 - 35        2
36 - 60        3
61 - 90        4
91 -125        5
1 fixture for each 45 additional persons over 125
 
         (b)   Theaters and auditoriums:
 
No. of Persons No. of Fixtures
1 - 200        1
201 - 400      2
401 - 750      3
1 fixture for each additional 250 persons over 750
 
         (c)   In no case shall there be less than one lavatory for eight
required water closets or urinals and less than one lavatory per toilet room.
Any building category not indicated shall be considered separately by the
Building Department.
      (8)   Slop sinks to be provided as required by the Building Department in
all occupancies.
      (9)   In every building accommodating persons of both sexes, toilet
rooms, when adjoining, shall be separated by a soundproof partition of a
material which cannot be easily cut or defaced. Each toilet room shall be
distinctly marked with respect to the sex which uses it.
      (10)   A room containing a urinal, bath or water closet shall be entirely
separated from any other room or hall by a solid partition extending from floor
to ceiling broken only by the entrance doorway. No window, transom or other
opening shall be made from any such room into an adjoining room, work space or
hallway for the purpose of ventilation.
      (11)   Except in family units, no bathroom or toilet room shall open
directly into a room where food is prepared, stored or served without an
intervening vestibule.
      (12)   Each toilet room shall have at least 12 square feet of floor area
for each water closet and each urinal.
      (13)   Water closet bowls for public use or use of employees shall be of
the elongated type, seats shall be open-front seats constructed of or surfaced
with non-absorbent material.
      (14)   No water closet or urinal shall be located in a room or
compartment which has less than five footcandles of illumination at floor level
and/or which is not vented to the atmosphere by window opening with an openable
glass area of four square feet for one fixture and one additional square foot
for each additional fixture. When impracticable to locate a toilet room on an
outside wall with proper light and ventilation, mechanical ventilation shall be
provided. Mechanical ventilation shall consist of an exhaust fan which shall
operate with a wall switch or shall operate with an automatic timing device and
shall be connected to the outside air by means of a duct. A mechanical system
of ventilation shall provide 12 complete air changes per hour minimum.
      (15)   Restaurants and lunchrooms shall be provided with one water closet
for employees and toilet rooms for each sex. Water closet or urinal
compartments shall never open directly into any bakery- market, restaurant or
into any room where food is being prepared, and shall always be so located as
to be least objectionable as regards to sanitation and privacy.
      (16)   Public garages and automotive gas stations shall provide not less
than one toilet room for each sex.
   (C)   Temporary toilet facilities. Suitable toilet facilities shall be
provided for the use of workers during the construction of any building. These
toilet facilities shall be maintained in a sanitary condition. The closet shall
be properly enclosed to secure privacy and tissue toilet paper must be
provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-8) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.083 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Provide at least two sill faucets on every building at convenient
exterior locations. Where faucets are likely to freeze, they shall be of the
frost-proof type or have an individual stop or waste valve.
   (B)   Each individual plumbing fixture or water-supplied appliance shall
have individual approved shut-off valves which will permit each plumbing
fixture or water-supplied appliance to be shut off without interference with
the water supply to any other plumbing fixture or water-supplied appliance;
except that, single-family dwellings with basements may have approved shut-off
valves which shall control the water supply to riser pipes installed in each
branch supply as near as practicable to its connection with the riser pipe or
branch supply line; however, each water closet shall be provided with a shut-
off valve. Each shut-off valve installed shall be accessible for operation at
all times.
   (C)   Buildings with floor slabs, shall have a yard clean-out accessibly
located within five feet of the building wall or foundation.
   (D)   Lead pipe shall not be used.
   (E)   Soldering bushings shall be of heavy red brass.
   (F)   All drains within all buildings, when underground, shall be of service
weight cast iron soil pipe, to a distance beyond the footings or bearing walls
to undisturbed earth, and in no case less than five feet. The building drain
from a point five feet outside the building footing or bearing wall shall be
extra heavy cast iron, vitrified clay or concrete sewer or reinforced concrete
sewer pipe. Cement mortar joints shall not be used in any piping controlled by
this code. Joints in vitrified clay or concrete sewer pipe shall be hot-poured
or precast joints.
   (G)   Subsoil drains shall be provided around the entire perimeter for all
structures with rooms below grade or with crawl spaces. Crawl spaces shall be
provided with a trapped drain. Subsoil drains shall discharge to the sump or
receiving tank, the contents of which shall be automatically lifted and
discharged into the drainage system. The drains shall be made of open-jointed
or horizontally split or perforated clay tile, not less than four inches in
diameter. Subsoil drains shall be laid in three-quarters inch gravel or crushed
rock with a minimum of four inches of gravel or rock circumferentially around
the tile. In the case where sanitary waste enters the sump or receiving tank,
such subsoil drains are to be properly trapped and before entering the sump or
receiving tank, be protected against back pressure by an automatic back
pressure valve accessibly located, or other methods approved by the Building
Department. Access for the purpose of cleaning and removing obstructions in
subsoil drains shall be provided at the high point of such subsoil drains. When
subsoil drains are placed on the inside of the foundation wall in unstable
soil, they shall be located a minimum of two feet from the footing.
   (H)   (1)   All sewers installed in any building shall be overhead sewers
and shall be located and installed above the grade of the adjoining main sewer;
provided, however, this restriction shall not apply to sewers installed in
buildings (without rooms below ground level or crawl spaces) constructed above
ground level in which all sewers or drains are located above the grade of
adjoining main sewer. All sewer drains or subsoil drainage systems shall
discharge directly to a sump or receiving tank so located to receive the
discharge by gravity. Pumps, ejectors or other mechanical devices shall be
provided to lift and discharge the contents of sumps or receiving tanks into
the building drain. Such pump, ejector or other mechanical equipment shall
operate automatically. A backwater valve shall be provided in the outlet line
of every sump or receiving tank. The waste line from the sump or ejector pump
shall be elevated to a point 18 inches from the ceiling of the room in which it
is installed or at least above the finished street grade before connecting to
the soil or waste stack or building drain. Every sump or receiving tank within
a building, receiving the discharge from sanitary drains, storm water or
combined drains, shall be of an 18-inch minimum diameter by 30-inch minimum
depth cast iron, equally durable metal or reinforced concrete with metal
concrete or equal bottom. Every sump or receiving tank receiving the discharge
from open jointed subsoil drainage systems only shall be 18-inch minimum
diameter by 30-inch minimum depth cast iron, equally durable metal, reinforced
concrete or vitrified clay tile with metal, concrete or equal bottom. Every
sump or receiving tank receiving discharge from sanitary drains, storm water or
combined drains shall have a gas-tight cover as approved by the Building
Department and shall have a vent pipe not less than two inches in diameter
where soil waste is received.
      (2)   Sump pumps shall have minimum one-third H.P. ejectors shall have
minimum one-half H.P., 110/220 volt, 60 cycle, 1,750 R.P.M. motors, totally
enclosed fan-cooled repulsion induction with automatic overload protection and
pump with automatic float control, open trash type bronze impeller, mechanical
seal under lower oilete bearing, life seal under ball bearing.
   (I)   Every restaurant, hotel, butcher shop, public institution and similar
buildings shall be provided with an outside catch basin for all kitchen wastes
and other detrimental wastes as determined by the Building Department. Grease
interceptors for other than residential dwellings are subject to approval of
the Building Department.
   (J)   (1)   A grease catch basin located outside a building shall be of
concrete, precast in blocks or monolithic or of block construction laid up in
portland cement mortar with walls not less than five inches thick. The basin
shall be water-tight.
      (2)   The basin shall be not less than 30 inches in diameter below the
top of the highest inlet pipe. The bottom of the basin shall be 24 inches below
the invert of the pipe and the top of the basin shall be 36 inches above invert
of pipe. The outlet pipe shall be trapped. The basin shall be covered with an
all cast iron cover or one-fourth inch thick cast iron lid in a concrete ring
and with a minimum opening of 16 inches. The inverts of the inlet pipe carrying
grease-bearing wastes shall be not less than six inches above the outlet pipe.
Downspouts shall not connect to the basin. Inside catch basins shall be of cast
iron with an air-tight cover.
   (K)   There shall be no floor drains installed in attached garages or
garages located beneath residential dwellings.
   (L)   (1)   The minimum size of any building drain, horizontal branch or
vertical soil or waste stack serving one or more water closets shall be four
inches.
      (2)   The minimum size of the building drain from a point five feet
outside the building wall shall be size six inches.
   (M)   (1)   No vent terminal from a drainage system shall be directly
beneath any door, any window or any other ventilating opening of the building
or of an adjacent building, nor shall any such vent terminal be within 12 feet
horizontally of such an opening unless it is at least five feet above the top
of such opening.
      (2)   There shall be no chases in walls of less than 12 inch nominal
thickness or within the required area of any pier, and no chase in any wall
shall be deeper than one-third the wall thickness. Chases permitted shall not
be cut, but shall be built in as construction progresses. The backs and sides
of all such chases in exterior walls shall be water-proofed and insulated.
Masonry directly over chases shall be supported on steel or equal lintels. All
chases are subject to the Building Department approval.
   (N)   Each gas appliance connected to a piping system shall have an
accessible manual shut-off valve installed upstream of the union or connector
and within six feet of the appliance it serves.
   (O)   Copper tubing shall be installed without joints in or under concrete
slabs.
   (P)   All solder joints shall be made with lead-free solder.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-9) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.084 PLUMBING IN MOVED BUILDINGS.
   If any building is moved from one location to another, the plumbing thereof
shall be made to conform to all provisions of this subchapter relative to
plumbing in a new building.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-10) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.085 DEFECTIVE WORK; NUISANCE PLUMBING.
   (A)   Defective work.
      (1)   Procedure.
         (a)   In case the Plumbing Inspector or his or her assistants find a
defect in any plumbing installations subject to inspection in the village, such
Inspector shall report the same in writing to the persons for whom the test is
being made, using blanks furnished by the village for that purpose and giving a
description of the character of the defect. If the defect is of a dangerous
character, necessitating immediate repair, the Plumbing Inspector shall
forthwith condemn the apparatus or equipment for further use or until the same
is removed, repaired or renewed. If the defect is of a character such that the
apparatus or equipment may be safely operated for a period of some days pending
repairs, the Plumbing Inspector shall so report, and name the number of days
during which the same may be operated. A duplicate of all such reports shall be
promptly filed in the office of the Building Commissioner.
         (b)   Where a pipe, plumbing fixture or appurtenance of a system of
plumbing is broken, defective or inoperative, its repair or replacement may be
ordered by the Building Commissioner or the Health Inspector. Such repairs
shall be at the expense of the owner of such property or persons in control of
such property.
      (2)   Correction of defects and faults. Any licensed master plumber who
shall neglect, refuse or fail to make good any defect or faults discovered in
his or her work shall not be permitted to do any further or additional work
until the defects or faults have been remedied in a manner satisfactory to the
Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   Nuisance plumbing. Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the
Department of Health or the Building Department or complaint shall be made by
the owner or occupant that the plumbing or drainage in any building has become
a nuisance, or is contrary to the provisions and requirements of this
subchapter, or is of faulty construction and liable to breed disease or
endanger the health of the occupants, then the Building Commissioner shall
examine the plumbing or drainage in any such building.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-11)
§ 151.086 LICENSED PLUMBERS REGULATED.
   (A)   Violations; revocation of state license. It shall be the duty of the
Building Commissioner to prefer charges with the Department of Registration and
Education of the state for the revocation of a certificate of license of any
master plumber or journeyman plumber or a certificate of registration of any
plumber’s apprentice, for any willful violation of this code.
   (B)   Unauthorized use of plumber’s name. No plumber shall allow his or her
name to be used by any other person directly or indirectly for the purpose of
obtaining permits or doing any work under his or her license.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-12) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.087 NON-LIABILITY OF VILLAGE.
   (A)   (1)   In the installation of plumbing and heating equipment ample
provisions shall be made, by providing proper supply tanks, checks, reliefs or
vacuum valves, for the safety of such equipment in the event of the stopping of
the water supply or pressure and to prevent the contamination of the household
water supply or damage to water meters from expansion of the water in any
heating apparatus.
      (2)   The village will not be responsible for any damage that may result
to any plumbing or heating equipment from stopping of the water or pressure on
account of shutting off the water supply to the premises, or the loss of
pressure in the mains through any cause beyond its control, or for the purpose
made necessary in connection with the maintenance and operation of the
waterworks system.
   (B)   When practicable, prior notice shall be provided to affected
consumers.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-13)
MECHANICAL CODE
§ 151.100 BOCA MECHANICAL ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by the village that certain Basic National
Mechanical Code published by the Building Officials Conference of America,
Inc., as provided for in §
151.001 of this chapter, and, from and after the date on which this code shall
take effect, the provisions of said Mechanical Code shall be controlling within
the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1)
§ 151.101 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   No permit, as required by this code, shall be issued until the fee
prescribed in this section shall have been paid, nor shall an amendment to any
permit be approved until the additional fee, if any, shall have been paid.
Commercial and industrial systems
Commercial and industrial systems
                                                      $30 for each compressor or
   Class A, B, C, D, E                             generator unit with power
                                                      supplied by a motor larger
                                                      than 1/4 horsepower.
   The fee for annual inspection for commercial and industrial refrigerating
systems for each compressor or generator unit of the following capacities, shall
be as follows
      5 tons or less                            $5
      Over 5 tons and not over 35 tons          $8
      Over 35 tons and not over 100 tons        $13
      Over 100 tons                             $15
   The permit fee for a single-unit system containing 6 pounds or less of
refrigerant with power supplied by motor not exceeding 1/4 horsepower shall be
$2, and the permit fee for a remote system serving not more than 1 evaporator
containing less than 6 pounds of refrigerant with power supplied by a motor not
exceeding 1/4 horsepower shall be $5.
Heating systems
   Chimney or fireplace                            $10
   Conversion burner or repairs to furnace or boile$10
   Entire new system                               $37.50
   New furnace or boiler only                      $15
Hot water heater, gas                                 $6.50
   Boilers and unfired pressure vessels
      For each low pressure boiler              $10
      For each miniature boiler                 $8
      For each high pressure boiler containing the following square feet of
heating surface
         Not more than 250                   $10
         More than 250 and not more than 1,50$14
         More than 1,500 and not more than 5,$16
         More than 5,000                     $18
      For each unfired pressure vessel designed for the following pounds of
pressure
         15 or less                          $10
         More than 15                        $12
   Annual inspection fees for boilers and unfired pressure vessels shall be paid
to the Village Collector as follows
      For each low pressure boiler              $5
      For each miniature boiler                 $3
      For each high pressure boiler containing the following square feet of
heating surface
         Not more than 250                   $7
         More than 250 and not more than 1,50$8
         More than 1,500 and not more than 5,$90
         More than 5,000                     $10
      For each unfired pressure vessel with the following diameters
         Less than 12 in.                    $16
         12 in. or more and less than 18 in. $8
         18 in. or more and less than 36 in. $10
         36 in. or more                      $12
Mechanical refrigeration
   CLASSIFICATION
Class A system is one containing 1,000 pounds or more of refrigerant.
Class B system is one containing more than 100 pounds, but less than 1,000 pounds
of refrigerant.
Class C system is one containing more than 20 pounds, but not more than 100
pounds of refrigerant.
Class D system is one containing more than 6 pounds, but not more than 20 pounds
of refrigerant.
Class E system is one containing 6 pounds or less of refrigerant.
COMPRESSOR CAPACITY
Compressor capacity shall be based on 5° evaporator temperature and 86° condenser
temperature, and compressor displacements shall conform to the following table
for refrigerants named:
   Ammonia, NH3                                    6,912 cubic inches per
                                                      minute per ton
   Carbon dioxide, CO2                             1,625 cubic inches per
                                                      minute per ton
   Dichlorodifluormethane, CCl2F2                  12,528 cubic inches per
                                                      minute per ton
   Methyl cloride, CH3Cl                           13,824 cubic inches per
                                                      minute per ton
   Sulphur dioxide, SO2                            20,736 cubic inches per
                                                      minute per ton
New residence                                         $40
Residential dwelling and remote system
   Class B, C and D                                $30 for each compressor or
                                                      generator unit
Ventilating systems, mechanical supply or exhaust
   Capacity - 3,000 cubic feet of air per minute   $10.50
   For each additional 1,000 cubic feet per minute $3
   Increase in capacity, each 1,000 cubic feet per $3
minute
   Capacity shall be the sum of supply and exhaust
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6-2) (Ord. passed 5-15-1984)
MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
§ 151.115 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   The President and Board of Trustees for the village have determined
that it is in the public interest to enforce compliance with certain minimum
housing standards and property maintenance.
   (B)   The village desires to ensure that dwelling units located within the
said village are maintained in a safe manner, consistent with standards
generally accepted in the community.
   (C)   The inherent police power of a unit of local government and a “home
rule” community includes the establishment of such housing standards along with
penalties for the violation thereof.
   (D)   It is the intention of the village to continue to require annual
inspections and licenses of multiple-family dwellings and to provide for
periodic inspections of other dwellings upon the transfer of interest,
ownership or occupancy thereof.
   (E)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to protect the health, safety and
welfare of citizens living within the village and to provide minimum standards
for the maintenance of existing residential dwellings in order to prevent
blight and unsafe living conditions.
   (F)   It is further the intention of the village to provide specific
standards for cooking, heating, sanitary equipment, light and ventilation as
well as minimum space standards per occupant to prevent overcrowding of
dwellings.
   (G)   The additional general purpose of this subchapter is to enforce the
stated objectives to maintain standards of living for the occupants of
dwellings and citizens of the said village to ensure the dignity and comfort of
the residents and to preserve the taxable value of land and buildings
throughout the said village.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-1) (Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 151.116 APPLICATION.
   The procedural provisions of this subchapter shall apply upon the transfer
of interest, ownership or occupancy of one-family dwellings and annually for
other dwelling structures to secure and maintain the license required of
multiple unit dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2) (Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 151.117 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall operate a multiple dwelling, rooming
house, motel or hotel unless he or she holds a current unrevoked operating
license issued by the village in his or her name for the specific named
dwelling, rooming house, motel or hotel.
   (B)   Application for license; fee. No operating license shall be issued or
renewed unless the applicant owner or operator has first made application
therefor on an application form provided by the village. The village shall
develop such forms and make them available to the public.
   (C)   Issuance of license. The village is hereby authorized, upon
application therefor, to issue new operating licenses and renewals thereof, in
the names of applicant owners or operators of multiple dwellings, rooming
houses, motels or hotels. No such licenses shall be issued unless the multiple
dwelling, rooming house, motel or hotel, in connection with which the license
is sought is found, after inspection by the Housing Inspector, to meet all
applicable requirements of this code pertaining to health and fire prevention
and applicable rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto, and all laws of
the state regarding hotels, motels and rooming houses.
   (D)   Residency. No operating license shall be issued or renewed for a non-
resident applicant unless such applicant designates in writing to the village
the name of a registered agent in the state for the receipt of service of
notice of violation of the provisions of this subchapter and for service of
process pursuant to this subchapter, and no operating license shall be issued
or renewed for a resident applicant unless such applicant has first designated
a registered agent in the state and county for the receipt of service of
violations of the provisions of this subchapter, when said applicant is absent
from the village for a period of 30 or more days. Such a designation shall be
made in, writing, and shall accompany each application form. The applicant may
designate any person who is a registered agent in the state.
   (E)   Term of use. Every operating license shall be issued for a period of
one year after its date of issuance, unless sooner revoked, and may be renewed
for successive periods not to exceed one year.
   (F)   Conditions of license.
      (1)   Transferability. No license shall be transferable to another person
or to another multiple dwelling or rooming house. Every person holding an
operating license shall give notice in writing to the village within two
working days after having transferred or otherwise disposed of the legal
control of any licensed multiple dwelling or rooming house. Such notice shall
include the name and address of the person or persons succeeding to the
ownership or control of such multiple dwelling or rooming house. This notice
requirement shall be satisfied upon compliance with the provisions of §
151.119 of this chapter.
      (2)   Display of license. Each license shall be displayed on or within
one foot of the mailbox of the multiple dwelling or rooming house.
      (3)   Record of repairs and changes.
         (a)   Every owner or operator of a licensed multiple dwelling, rooming
house, motel or hotel shall keep or cause to be kept an accurate record of all
repairs, alterations and equipment changes related to the provisions of this
subchapter or to any rules and regulations pertaining hereto, and of all
corrections made as a result of inspections by the Housing Inspector. Such
record shall be made available to the Housing Administrator by the owner or
operator when requested.
         (b)   Every owner or operator subject to this section shall be
notified that such record may be used in administrative or judicial proceedings
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
         (c)   The village shall, upon issuance of a license as requested in
this section, advise the licensee of the necessity for such record and the
manner in which such record shall be kept.
   (G)   Inspections; license revocations.
      (1)   Inspections authorized. No operating license shall be issued or
renewed unless the applicant owner or operator agrees in his or her application
to an inspection pursuant to this subchapter, as the Housing Administrator may
require to determine whether the multiple dwelling or rooming house in
connection with which such license is sought is in compliance with the
applicable provisions of this subchapter and with applicable rules and
regulations adopted pursuant hereto.
      (2)   Notice of violation. Whenever, upon inspection of the licensed
multiple dwelling or rooming house, or of the records required to be kept by
division (F)(3) above, the Housing Administrator finds that conditions or
practices exist which are in violation of the provisions of this subchapter or
of any applicable rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto, he or she
shall serve the owner or operator with notice of such violation in the manner
hereinafter provided. Such notice shall state that unless the violations cited
are corrected within a reasonable time period, the operating license may be
suspended.
      (3)   Re-inspection; suspension of license. At the end of the time
allowed for correction of any violation cited, the Housing Inspector or his or
her designee shall re-inspect the multiple dwelling or rooming house, and if he
or she determines that such conditions have not been corrected, he or she may
issue an order suspending the operating license.
      (4)   Appeals; revocation of license.
         (a)   Any person whose license to operate a multiple dwelling or
rooming house has been suspended shall be entitled to a reconsideration of the
order by an administrative hearing with the Building Commissioner.
         (b)   If no request for reconsideration is filed with the Building
Commissioner within ten days following the issuance of the order of suspension,
the license shall be revoked; except that, prior to revocation, any person
whose license has been suspended may request re-inspection upon a showing that
the violation or violations cited in the notice have been corrected.
      (5)   Specific violations resulting in license revocation.
         (a)   If the licensee is convicted by a court of a violation of any
applicable ordinance of the village, in connection with the licensed building,
then the license shall be subject to revocation without further notice.
         (b)   In the event a condition of extreme hazard to health or safety
is found to exist, the Housing Inspector may immediately revoke the license.
         (c)   Each day a building continues to operate after a license has
been revoked shall constitute a separate violation of this subchapter, subject
to fine as provided in this subchapter.
      (6)   Reinstatement of license. If, upon re-inspection, the Housing
Inspector finds that the multiple dwelling or rooming house in connection with
which the notice of violation was issued is now in compliance with this
subchapter and with applicable rules and regulations issued pursuant hereto, he
or she shall reinstate the license.
   (H)   Penalties. Any licensee violating any of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be subject to a fine and such other penalties as provided in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-3) (Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.118 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The enforcement official for this subchapter shall be the Housing
Administrator for the village unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-4) (Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 151.119 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Right of entry. In order to safeguard the safety, health and welfare
of the public, the Housing Inspector is authorized to attempt at any reasonable
time to obtain consent to entry from any owner, occupant or other person in
charge of a dwelling or structure subject to this code. Such owner, occupant or
other person in charge shall be informed that entry by the Housing Inspector is
sought for the purpose of making an inspection and performing duties under this
code. Failure to give consent to entry under this section shall not be
punishable by fine or imprisonment. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this code, when the village conducts inspections of a tenant’s apartment in a
multi-family dwelling or any other dwelling that is not owner occupied, the
village must obtain the consent of such tenant or non- owner occupant to
conduct the inspection. If such tenant refuses consent, the village may attempt
to obtain a warrant pursuant to division (D) below and §
151.123 of this chapter.
   (B)   Inspection upon transfer. No owners agent or person in charge of a
one-family dwelling, or multi-family apartment, shall sell or allow any person
to occupy the same as a tenant or lessee unless the owner, agent or person in
charge of such dwelling or structure has notified the Housing Administrator of
the intent to sell or lease such dwelling or structure. Notice shall be in
writing and must be received by the Housing Administrator no less than eight
working days before the proposed sale or lease.
   (C)   Attempted inspection by Housing Inspector. Upon receiving notice of
intent to sell or lease a dwelling or structure as described in division (B)
above, the Housing Inspector shall attempt to inspect such dwelling or
structure to determine whether the dwelling or structure is in compliance with
all of the provisions of this subchapter that pertain to health and safety. The
Housing Inspector shall attempt to make the inspection in no less than within
five working days after receipt of notice set forth in division (B) above. (The
term five days in this instance shall mean any five days during a week or part
thereof, when normal business activities are carried on by the village.) If the
village fails to complete an inspection within this time frame, the village
shall not delay or prevent a sale or lease of a dwelling or structure and shall
not refuse to issue any necessary water or transfer stamps. Failure to consent
to an inspection under this section shall not constitute an offense against the
village and shall not be punishable by fine or imprisonment, nor shall such
failure to consent prevent the sale or lease of a dwelling or structure. Any
inspection conducted pursuant to this subchapter shall be as limited as
possible to allow the Housing Inspector to inspect the dwelling or structure to
determine whether there are violations of the code that pertain to health and
safety. No later than two days before the Housing Inspector is scheduled to
conduct the inspection, the Housing Inspector shall deliver to the owner and
all occupants of the structure or dwelling written notice that includes the
following:
      (1)   The date and time of the inspection;
      (2)   A statement identifying the areas of exterior or interior of the
structure or dwelling to be inspected and a listing of the items that will be
inspected in each area;
      (3)   A statement that the owner, agent or person in charge has the right
to withhold his or her consent to the inspection and require the village to
attempt to obtain a warrant to conduct the inspection;
      (4)   A statement that, if the owner, agent or person in charge withholds
his or her consent to the search, the village may not prevent the sale or lease
of a dwelling or structure (including by refusing to issue any necessary water
or transfer stamps); and
      (5)   A statement that the inspection shall be as limited as possible to
allow the Housing Inspector to inspect the dwelling or structure to determine
whether there are violations of the code that pertain to health and safety
related to electrical, plumbing, structural integrity, security, heating and
fire safety issues.
   (D)   Inspection by warrant. If the owner, agent, occupant or person in
charge of a dwelling or structure does not consent to the attempted inspection
described in division (C) above, the Housing Administrator shall seek, in the
Circuit Court of the county, a warrant in accordance with the appropriate laws
of the state. The warrant shall be for the purpose of making an inspection to
determine whether the dwelling or structure is in compliance with all of the
provisions of this code that pertain to health and safety. The application for
the warrant must include a statement that the inspection will be as limited as
possible to determine whether there are violations of this code that pertain to
health and safety issues related to electrical, plumbing, structural integrity,
security, heating and fire safety issues. A warrant obtained pursuant to this
section shall be executed and an inspection shall be made no less than three
working days before the date of the proposed sale or lease. The term THREE
DAYS, in this instance, shall mean any three days during a week or part
thereof, when normal business activities are carried on by the village. An
owner, agent, occupant or person in charge of a dwelling or structure who is
presented with a warrant obtained pursuant to this section shall not refuse,
impede, inhibit, interfere with, restrict or obstruct entry and free access to
any part of the dwelling, structure or premises where an inspection authorized
by the warrant is sought to be made.
   (E)   Annual inspections. It shall be the policy of the village to inspect
all rental or leased dwelling units or dwelling structures on an annual basis
in connection with the license requirement of §
151.117 of this chapter. Such inspections shall comply with all provisions of
this section.
   (F)   Qualifications. Individuals conducting inspections pursuant to this
subchapter shall be qualified to make such inspections.
   (G)   Inspection report. The Housing Inspector shall provide an inspection
report to the owner, agent, occupant or other person in charge of a dwelling or
structure upon completion of the inspection that identifies those matters which
must be remedied to comply with the provisions of the code that pertains to
health and safety. Upon any reinspection, the Village Inspector shall be
entitled to comply with the provisions of this subchapter that pertain to
health and safety issues, but the Village Inspector shall be prohibited from
raising any new matters or requiring any further remediation not contained in
his or her original report if the conditions existed as of the time the
original inspection. Reinspections must occur within five working days after
the village is notified that the dwelling or structure is ready for
reinspection.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-5) (Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 151.120 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person to whom any order required by this subchapter is directed
shall comply therewith. Such person shall thereafter, upon petition directed to
the Appeals Board, be afforded a hearing as prescribed in this code. The Board
of Appeals shall consist of the village’s Building Commission. The Building
Commissioner shall act as Chairperson and will vote in the case under appeal
only if there is a tie vote.
   (B)   Depending upon the findings of the Board at such hearing as to whether
the provisions of this code have been complied with, the Board shall continue
such order or modify or revoke it.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-6) (Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 151.121 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Requirement.
      (1)   If an inspection has been made pursuant to this subchapter, no
owner, agent or person in charge of a one-family dwelling or multi-family
apartment house shall sell, convey, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of
ownership, by any form of deed, document of conveyance or assignment, either of
title or of the beneficial interest in a trust of any kind, or otherwise, or by
succession in interest through inter vivos conveyance or through bequest or
inheritance, or otherwise, the property unless a water stamp has been issued
and/or allow any person to occupy the same as the owner or as a tenant or
lessee unless the Housing Administrator has issued a certificate of occupancy
for such dwelling or structure. A water stamp and/or certificate of occupancy
shall be issued only if:
         (a)   The Housing Inspector has determined that the dwelling or
structure is in compliance with all the provisions of this code that pertain to
health and safety; and
         (b)   The owner has filed with the Department of Housing, a “roofing
certification” from a roofing contractor licensed and bonded with the state
which certification provides substantially as follows:
            1.   The inspection of the roof reveals that the roof and roof
covering is in satisfactory condition with no evidence of leaks; roof is water-
tight, not worn out and has an estimated physical life of three years; and
            2.   However, no roofing certification shall be required if the
owner, agent or person in charge submits to the Department of Housing proof
that the roof has been replaced or repaired within 12 months from the date of
the proposed sale or lease.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A)(1) above, an owner,
agent or person in charge of a one-family dwelling or multi-family apartment
house shall be allowed to sell, convey, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose
of ownership, by any form of deed, document of conveyance or assignment, either
of title or of the beneficial interest in a trust of any kind, or otherwise, or
by succession in interest through inter vivos conveyance or through bequest or
inheritance, or otherwise, the property.
         (a)   If the owner, agent or person in charge of the dwelling or
structure has deposited in escrow the following sums of money to secure that
the dwelling or structure will be brought into compliance with all of the
requirements of this code that pertain to health and safety:
 
Investor or lender fee $1,000
Owner occupied fee     $500
 
         (b)   The owner, agent, buyer, conveyee, transferee, assignee or
successor in title, ownership or interest, however accomplished, lessee or
person in charge of the dwelling or structure has entered into an agreement
with the village whereby the buyer, conveyee, transferee, assignee or successor
in title, ownership or interest, or the lessee agrees to bring the dwelling or
structure into compliance with the provisions of this code that pertain to
health and safety within the time period determined by the Housing
Administrator and the village agrees to immediately issue a water stamp and to
issue a certificate of occupancy upon completion of the repairs and remedial
work necessary to bring the dwelling or structure into compliance with the
provisions of this code that pertain to health and safety. No certificate of
occupancy shall issue until the dwelling or structure has been determined to be
in compliance with all of the provisions of this code that pertain to health
and safety.
      (3)   The village shall not refuse to issue a water stamp and/or a
certificate of occupancy on any ground other than the building or dwelling is
not in compliance with the provisions of the code that pertain to health and
safety. By way of example, the village shall not refuse to issue a water stamp
and/or a certificate of occupancy on any grounds related to the village’s
opinion regarding cosmetic concerns. As part of the inspection process, the
village shall not require owners, agents, buyers, lessees or persons in charge
of the dwelling or structure to make any cosmetic changes (e.g., painting
walls, replacing carpet) that are unrelated to legitimate health and safety
concerns. The village shall not administratively suspend the provisions of this
subchapter that permit sales or leases of dwellings or structures pursuant to
division (A)(2) above.
      (4)   Failure of the owner or buyer, conveyee, transferee, assignee or
successor in title, ownership or interest, however accomplished, or lessee to
fulfill the terms of the agreement in division (A)(2) above or to bring the
dwelling or structure into compliance with all of the provisions of this code
identified in the inspection report that pertain to health and safety within
the time period designated in the agreement shall constitute a violation of
this subchapter, such violation continuing until the dwelling or structure is
in compliance with the provisions of this code.
         (a)   If reasonable proof is not received by or shown to the Housing
Administrator or another authorized representative of the municipality
designated by the governing body of the municipality within the period of time
established by the Housing Administrator as the period of time for said repairs
to be completed, the municipality may elect to suspend water services to the
premises pending proof of completion of repairs. The village may, at its sole
option and discretion, provide for temporary water services to the premises as
deemed necessary and appropriate for repairs to be made and completed to the
dwelling or structure.
         (b)   With respect to a repair escrow, if reasonable proof that the
repairs have been completed is not received by or shown to the Housing
Administrator or another authorized representative of the municipality
designated by the governing body of the municipality, within the escrow time
period established by the Housing Administrator as the time period for said
repairs to be completed, the municipality, at its sole and exclusive option,
shall declare the escrowed funds on deposit forfeited, and/or shall issue a
citation violation of this subchapter and/or the escrow repair affidavit or
agreement, and/or shall use the escrow funds to securer or repair the structure
or dwelling in question, so that the structure and property are in compliance
with the municipal local code requirements and applicable ordinances of the
municipality.
         (c)   If, after the lapse of the established time period for repair,
the village secures or repairs the damaged or destroyed structure, the village
shall reimburse itself from the retained repair escrow funds. No more than 15%
of the escrowed funds used by the municipality under this division (A)(4) may
be attributed to the municipality’s administrative expenses, which must be
directly related to the village’s efforts to coordinate, oversee or otherwise
accomplish the repairs that must be made pursuant to the agreement entered into
pursuant to division (A)(2) above. Any unused portion of the retained proceeds
shall be returned to the buyer/owner or lessee.
         (d)   There shall be no liability on the part of, and a cause of
action shall not arise against, the municipality or an agent or employee of the
municipality in the course of enforcing or complying or attempting to comply
with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Issuance of certificate shall not be construed a warranty. In issuing
a certificate of occupancy, the village does not intend to, nor does it
warrant, ensure or guarantee to the holder thereof, to his or her assignee or
other interested party that there are no violations of this village code or
laws of the state or the United States of America.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-7) (Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006; Ord. 14-001, passed 2-3-
2014)
§ 151.122 SALE OR LEASE IN ABSENCE OF INSPECTION.
   If an inspection is not made pursuant to the requirements of this
subchapter, nothing herein shall prohibit the sale or lease of a one-family or
multi-family apartment house unless an owner, agent, or person in charge of
such dwelling or structure is interfering with or impeding an inspection
authorized by a warrant obtained pursuant to §§
151.119(D) or
151.123 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-8) (Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 151.123 PROCUREMENT OF WARRANT.
   (A)   A search warrant in connection with this subchapter shall be sought in
the Circuit Court of the county. The Court may consider any of the following
factors along with such other matters as it deems pertinent in its decision as
to whether a warrant shall issue:
      (1)   Eyewitness account of violation;
      (2)   Citizen complaints;
      (3)   Tenant complaints;
      (4)   Plain view violations;
      (5)   Violations apparent from village records;
      (6)   Property deterioration;
      (7)   Age of property;
      (8)   Nature of alleged violation;
      (9)   Similar properties in the area;
      (10)   Documented violations on similar properties in the area;
      (11)   Passage of time since last inspection; and
      (12)   Previous violations on the property.
   (B)   The application for the warrant shall specify the bases on which the
warrant is being sought and shall contain a statement that the inspection will
be as limited as possible to determine whether there are violations of this
code that pertain to health and safety issues related to electrical, plumbing,
structural integrity, security, heating and fire safety issues.
   (C)   The warrant shall provide that any inspection made pursuant to the
warrant shall be as limited in scope as possible to allow the Inspector to
determine whether the structure or dwelling is in compliance with the
provisions of the code that pertain to health and safety related to electrical,
plumbing, structural integrity, heating and fire safety issues.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-9) (Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 151.124 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for a point-of-sale inspection shall be $200 per dwelling.
   (B)   The fee for the annual inspection of a multi-family apartment house
shall be $35 per unit not to exceed $200 for any single apartment house. An
additional inspection fee of $25 per unit will be required for certification to
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (C)   The fee shall be double for any one-family dwelling or multi-family
apartment if actions are taken that do not conform with §
151.119(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   No fee shall be charged for any necessary re-inspection of any
building or dwelling unless the owner, agent, non-owner occupant or person in
charge of the building or dwelling has failed to appear for two previously
scheduled inspections.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-10) (Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006; Ord. 07-392, passed 4-16-
2007; Ord. 07-410, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.125 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Housing Administrator of the village shall be empowered to
promulgate reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with the terms and
provisions of this subchapter in order to enforce the provisions contained
herein.
   (B)   Such rules shall be in writing and copies of this subchapter, such
rules and forms of applications and inspection reports shall be filed and
available for inspection at the office of the Village Clerk and the Housing
Department of the village for a nominal charge.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-11) (Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006)
EXISTING STRUCTURES CODE
§ 151.140 BOCA NATIONAL EXISTING STRUCTURES CODE.
   The BOCA National Existing Structures Code of 1987 is hereby adopted,
subject to the modifications and revisions specified herein, and made a part
hereof, as if the same were fully set out in this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-1) (Ord. 88-137, passed 7-26-1988)
UNSAFE, DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 151.155 DEFINITION; NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   The term UNSAFE BUILDINGS, as used in this subchapter, is hereby
defined to mean and include:
      (1)   Any uncompleted building or structure;
      (2)   Any abandoned building or structure;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
neighboring structures;
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (5)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction or any other cause, is liable to cause injury or
damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure;
and
      (6)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available
to and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure.
   (B)   Any such building in the village is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-1)
§ 151.156 UNSAFE BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village; and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any unsafe building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied while
it is or remains in an unsafe condition.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.157 BOARDING WINDOWS AND DOORS OF STRUCTURES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of any structure within the village shall be
responsible for keeping all windows and doors of such structures, whether
occupied or not, enclosed by material ordinarily and customarily used either by
builders or contractors or manufactured for such purposes and as provided by
this subchapter, and shall not permit enclosure of windows and/or doors by
boarding, closing up or other means; except that, one-half wire mesh screening
may be installed over windows and glass portions of doors of such vacant
structures.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all buildings which are
now or hereafter become vacant with the exception of buildings damaged by fire,
tornado or other such catastrophe. In the event of such damage, the owner or
occupant shall be permitted to board the windows and doors of such buildings
for a period of time not to exceed 60 days, and shall, prior to the expiration
of such time, make the required repairs and installation in accordance with
this code. The President and Board of Trustees may authorize an extension of
periods when presented with good and sufficient reason to do so by the owner or
occupant of such structure.
   (C)   No owner or occupant of a structure damaged by fire, tornado or other
similar catastrophe shall board the windows and/or doors of such structure
without first obtaining from the village a permit to do so and paying the
applicable permit fee to the village, which fee shall be $40. In an emergency
situation where such boarding is required immediately to prevent additional
damage from the elements, the owner or applicant shall apply for such permit on
the first business following such emergency.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-3) (Ord. 07-393, passed 4-16-2007) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.158 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Abatement or removal by village.
      (1)   When any building in the village shall, by reason of fire or other
casualty, or by reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or
any other cause, become a hazard or menace so as to endanger persons or
property, the President and Board of Trustees may declare the same to be a
danger or menace and abate the same.
      (2)   Where such building has become extra dangerous so that the hazard
therefrom to life or property is imminent and the necessity for immediate
action arises, the Village President, the Building Commissioner, the Chief of
the Fire Department or the Chief of Police may order the removal of a part or
all of such building without previous notice to the owner; but notice to the
owner shall be given as soon as possible.
   (B)   Investigation; action by Village Board. Where such extra danger may be
guarded against by protective measures without destroying or removing such
building or part thereof, the President shall cause an investigation to be made
through the proper department of the village to determine the extent and
character of the condition and the steps necessary to correct the same. When
such investigation shall have been completed and submitted to the President and
Board of Trustees, they may, by resolution, determine in what manner such
hazard or menace shall be removed or abated.
   (C)   Notice to abate; hearing and appeals. Notice, by personal service or
by registered or certified mail, shall be given the owner and a hearing granted
him or her at the next regular meeting of the Board, if he or she requests it
prior to or at such meeting, whereupon the President and Board of Trustees
shall adopt such resolution as, in their discretion, they may deem proper or
necessary to remove such hazard or menace, and may require the owner within
such reasonable time as may be specified in the resolution to abate such
condition. The owner shall have ten days within which to appeal to the
Department of Public Safety of the state.
   (D)   Authority of village officials. The provisions of this section shall
not be taken as limiting the duties, powers and authority of any officer or
department of the village respecting other ordinances providing for remedying
defects in buildings.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-4)
§ 151.159 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Notice to abate. Whenever the President and Board of Trustees be of
the opinion that any building or structure in the village is an unsafe
building, the corporate authorities shall thereupon cause written notice to be
served upon the owner thereof by registered mail or by personal service. Such
notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in an unsafe
condition and that such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by
repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the condition
must be remedied at once. Such notice may be in the following terms:
 
To  (owner-occupant of premises)  of the premises known and described as                                                                           .
 
You are hereby notified that (describe building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building by the corporate authorities.
 
The causes for this decision are (herein insert the facts as to the condition)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
 
You must remedy this condition and make the building safe or demolish the building immediately, or the village will proceed to do so.
 
   (B)   Abatement by village. If the person receiving the notice has not
complied therewith within 15 days after receiving said written notice, the
corporate authorities may apply to the Circuit Court of the county for the
order authorizing the demolition of or repair of any dangerous or unsafe
building or uncompleted or abandoned building.
   (C)   Lien for abatement costs; notice and foreclosure.
      (1)   The cost and expenses of such demolition or repair shall be
recoverable from the owner of such real estate and shall constitute a lien on
said real estate superior to all existing liens or encumbrances, except taxes;
provided that, notice of such lien is filed with the Recorder of Deeds or
Registrar of Titles of the county within 60 days after the date such cost and
expenses are incurred.
      (2)   The notice to be filed with the Recorder of Deeds or Registrar of
Titles of the county shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
         (a)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification;
         (b)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred
or payable for the service; and
         (c)   The date or dates when the cost and expense was incurred by the
village.
      (3)   The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in case of
mortgages or mechanics’ lien. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced
within three years after the date of filing notice of lien.
   (D)   Injunction requiring compliance; notice.
      (1)   Whenever the Building Commissioner determines, after due
investigation, that any building or structure within the corporate limits of
the village fails to conform to the minimum standards of health and safety as
set forth in the applicable ordinances of the village, and the owner or owners
of such building or structure fails, after due notice, to cause such property
to conform, the corporate authorities shall make application to the Circuit
Court of the county for an injunction requiring compliance with such ordinance,
or for such other order as the Court may deem necessary or appropriate to
secure such compliance.
      (2)   Before making application to the Circuit Court of the county,
written notice shall be served by registered or certified mail or personal
delivery to the owner or owners of such property, and upon the occupant
thereof, setting forth the way or ways that the building or structure fails to
conform to the ordinances of the village. This must be given within 15 days
prior to said application.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-5)
§ 151.160 DAMAGED WOODEN BUILDINGS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Removal or repair required.
      (1)   Any frame building or structure within the fire limits of the
village which has or may be damaged by fire, decay or other causes to the
extent of 50% of its value, shall be torn down and removed, or rebuilt with
non-flammable walls.
      (2)   If such building or structure is a non-conforming use, it shall be
torn down and removed and not rebuilt.
   (B)   Notice of damaged condition; action by village officials.
      (1)   Upon written notice by the Building Commissioner to the effect that
such building has been so damaged, filed with the Clerk, the said Clerk shall
notify the Village Board of the receipt of such notice. The Village Board shall
then appoint three persons to determine whether or not such building or
structure has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its value.
      (2)   A copy of the notice to the appointment of this board of three
persons to determine the damage shall be served upon the owner of the premises
by personal service or by registered mail at his or her last known address.
Such notice shall be in substantially the following form:
 
To                                                                                   
 
 
You are hereby notified that                                                            has determined that the building owned by you at
                                                                                                   , located within the fire limits of the village has been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to
the extent of 50% of its value and that a board of three persons has been appointed to verify this finding, which board will hold its first meeting in room                  in the village on the
                day of                              at the hour of                o’clock, at which time it will determine whether or not this finding is correct.
 
If this finding is verified by the board, you must tear down and remove the said building or rebuild it with non-flammable walls if not a non-conforming use. (Note: if non-conforming use, state
that it cannot be rebuilt.)
 
 
   (C)   Owner to remedy defective condition. If the board of three members
determines that the building in question has been damaged to the extent of 50%
of its value, it shall be the duty of the owner to tear down and remove the
said building within 20 days after the finding of such board, or to remodel it
to comply with the requirements for new buildings in the fire limits; and it
shall be unlawful to occupy or permit the occupancy of such building after such
finding until it is so remodeled.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-6)
PRIVATE GARAGES
§ 151.175 DEFINITION.
   When used in this subchapter, the word GARAGE means a building or premises
or portion thereof used for housing or care of self-propelled vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-1)
§ 151.176 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   Every garage shall comply with the special provisions of this subchapter
and, in addition thereto, with all other provisions of the Basic Building Code
applicable to garages.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-2)
§ 151.177 DETACHED GARAGES AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   A detached garage or accessory building may not be located nearer
to any interior lot line than that permitted for the main building when any
part is on line with the main building if extended. However, when a detached
garage or accessory building is located in the rear yard, it may then be
located within three feet of the interior lot line, but not nearer than five
feet to any alley abutting the rear or side of the lot.
      (2)   Where a detached garage has a driveway entrance from the front of
the lot only, the garage may be located within three feet of an alley; provided
that, this restriction shall not apply to a utility easement along the rear of
the lot.
      (3)   In no event, however, shall any garage or accessory building or any
eave or roof or other projection of such a building project into such easement
area.
      (4)   No detached garage or accessory building shall be located on a
corner lot beyond the main building as extended or the main building on the
adjacent lot to the rear. All detached garages or accessory buildings shall not
be located nearer than ten feet from the rear of the main residential
structure. Closer to or along side of residence classifies the proposed
structure as an attached building regardless of whether or not a physical
attachment is contemplated. A detached garage or accessory building classed as
attached to a main building shall be subject to and must conform to all
regulations of the Zoning Code applicable to the main building.
   (B)   Size.
      (1)   Neither the width nor length of any detached private garage or
accessory building shall exceed 30 feet, nor shall total floor area exceed 720
square feet.
      (2)   Vehicle door opening for a detached private garage shall not exceed
ten feet in height.
      (3)   The total height of a detached private garage shall not exceed 16
feet to the peak of the roof measured from the driveway apron, nor shall the
height of any other accessory building exceed 12 feet to the peak of the roof
measured from the ground level, nor shall any such detached garage or accessory
building occupy more than 30% of the required rear yard.
   (C)   Number on each lot. Only one such detached private garage or accessory
building shall be permitted on one zoning lot.
   (D)   Construction; when allowed. A detached garage or accessory building
shall not be erected prior to the construction of the main building to which it
is accessory.
   (E)   Construction specifications.
      (1)   Foundations and frame.
         (a)   Piers or posts not permitted in lieu of foundations.
         (b)   Full floating slabs, but only if placed on level, undisturbed
soil after all sod has been removed. This type of foundation consists of a
minimum four-inch slab thickened to 20 inches, six-inch maximum above grade, 14
inches minimum below grade for a width of ten inches and beveled upwards at a
45-degree angle to meet the bottom of the four-inch slab around entire
perimeter including the door opening. Aprons are to be separated from the slab
by three-eighths inch minimum expansion joint. A minimum of four inches of
crushed stone, sand or gravel well tamped is to be placed under the four-inch
slab; however, no fill is permitted under the thickened beam. Pitch floor to
drain so that no water will stand in pools. No construction on slab for three
days, May 1 through September 30; five days, October 1 through April 30.
      (2)   Masonry foundations.
         (a)   Trench footing and foundation permitted if earth will stand
without crumbling. Such footing must provide at least eight-inch thickness or
at least ten-inch thickness for brick veneer of uncontaminated concrete
extending 36 inches below finished grade and four inches above around entire
perimeter including the door opening.
         (b)   Trench shall be “belled out” to provide at least 16 inches of
footing width at bottom.
         (c)   Floor to be four inches minimum concrete placed on four-inch bed
of thoroughly tamped gravel, sand or crushed rock. Pitch floor to drain so that
no water will stand in pools.
         (d)   Earth under fill to be leveled, free from sod, grass, wood
debris and the like and thoroughly tamped.
         (e)   No construction on slab for three days, May 1 through September
30; five days, October 1 through April 30.
      (3)   Quality of concrete.
         (a)   Commercial ready mix to have minimum portland cement content of
five bags per cubic yard.
         (b)   Water shall not be added at the job.
         (c)   Mixing period shall not exceed beyond one and one-half hours per
batch.
         (d)   Exposed concrete to be per the village’s Building Code.
      (4)   Masonry construction. To conform to Code requirements for
residential building.
      (5)   Frame construction.
         (a)   Sills: single two-inch by four-inch full length.
         (b)   Anchors: one-half-inch by eight-inch machine bolts with washers,
placed 12 inches from each corner, and at intermediate intervals of not more
than eight feet; there must be washers under all nuts and nuts must be
tightened down.
         (c)   Wall studs: two inches by four inches, not more than 24 inches
on centers, four-inch dimension perpendicular to wall.
         (d)   Top plate: double two-inch by four-inch full length.
         (e)   Rafters: two inches by six inches not more than 24 inches O.C.
         (f)   Ridge: two-inch by eight-inch full length; hips: two inches by
eight inches.
         (g)   Sheathing: one-inch nominal eight-inch wide board sheeting one-
half-inch CS45 fir plywood or one-half-inch gypsum sheathing moisture resistant
securely nailed to framing.
         (h)   Ties: all gable roofs must have two-inch by six-inch or two-inch
by four-inch minimum collar beams; four feet on centers. All buildings must
have three two-inch by six-inch ties, maximum six feet O.C. the full width and
one foot two inches by six inches the full length.
         (i)   Roofing: not less than 235 pound thick butt shingles Class C for
less than three in 12 pitch provided hot pour tar and gravel.
         (j)   Siding: one-inch nominal bevel or drop siding, securely nailed
to each stud with two 8d nails per bearing. Nails to be aluminum, copper, zinc
or zinc coated. If garage is of double wall construction, one-half or five-
eighths siding may be used.
         (k)   Jambs and headers: double at all openings, except where windows
fit between studs on 24-inch centers. Headers to be on edge and supported with
two-inch by four-inch studs for openings four feet or larger, sizes to conform
to:
 
Less than 4 ft.   opening 2 - 2 in. x 4 in.
4 ft. - 8 ft.     opening 2 - 2 in. x 6 in.
8 ft. - 12 ft.    opening 2 - 2 in. x 8 in.
12 ft. and larger opening 2 - 2 in. x 12 in.
 
         (l)   Doors: service door shall be not less than one and three-
eighths-inch by six-inch panel or solid or exterior grade hollow core plywood.
If auto door is one piece pull out type, it must be made up of one-inch nominal
lumber on a two-inch nominal frame or better, the hardware shall be adequate
and adjusted to support and operate the door.
         (m)   Bracing: building shall be braced at all corners with one-inch
by four-inch or better notched into the top plates and bottom sills, placed
diagonally and notched into two or more studs and nailed for each bearing,
except where wood or plywood sheathing is used.
         (n)   Eaves: on pitched roofs, six-inch eaves or gutters; on flat
roofs, one-inch eaves on four sides or gutters.
         (o)   Corner post: two two-inch by four-inch minimum.
         (p)   Sheathing paper required on single wall construction.
         (q)   Provide one square foot relief opening per car.
         (r)   Electrical per the village code.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-3) (Ord. passed 10-14-1980)
§ 151.178 ATTACHED GARAGES AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Garages located beneath a one- or two-story family dwelling or
attached to it shall have the walls, floors and ceiling of the vehicle room
constructed in such a manner as to yield a one-hour fire rating.
   (B)   Do not provide scuttles to attic.
   (C)   Heating plants shall not be installed in attached garages.
   (D)   All openings between vehicle room and other parts of the building
shall be provided with doors and frames carrying one hour fire rating (or a one
and three-fourths inch solid core door may be permitted).
   (E)   A metal covering of 22 gauge or heavier shall be applied to wood
passage doors between garage and house where garage is located beneath
habitable quarters.
   (F)   All attached garages must have the floor six inches lower than the
dwelling floor and provide adequate drainage; floor drains connected to sewer
system not allowed.
   (G)   Footings and foundations shall be formed; trench footing and
foundations not allowed.
   (H)   Construction shall conform to the Building, Mechanical, Electrical and
Plumbing Codes applicable to the main building.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-4) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.179 DRAINAGE OF GARAGE FLOORS.
   There shall be a sloping of the garage floor, creating a differential of
three to four inches between the front and rear parts of the floor and designed
so as to drain toward the street, if entry to the garage is from a street, and
designed so as to drain toward the alley, if entry to the garage is from an
alley.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-5) Penalty, see §
151.999
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
§ 151.190 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BILLBOARDS or SIGN BOARDS. All outdoor structures used for the public
display of advertising material; except that, such terms shall not include
signs erected or maintained on roofs, or signs attached to or painted upon the
walls of buildings.
      SIGN. Includes all advertising structures having a face similar to a
billboard or signboard, but which are erected and maintained on the roofs or
attached to the walls of buildings.
   (B)   The terms “billboard”, “signboard” or “sign”, as used herein, shall
not be held to include any board, sign or surface used to display official
notices issued by any court or public office, or to include any board or sign
having an area of less than 25 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-1)
§ 151.191 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   No billboard, signboard or sign shall be erected or maintained within
the village unless a permit shall first have been secured from the President
and Board of Trustees, to whom application for such permit shall be made; and
such application shall be accompanied by plans and specifications of the
proposed billboard, signboard or signs, and the location of the same.
   (B)   If the plans and specifications shall be in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, the President and Board of Trustees may
thereupon approve the same and issue a permit for the erection of such
billboard, signboard or sign upon the payment by the applicant of a fee as
hereinafter provided and in addition thereto a license fee as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.192 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Permit fee. The fee for permits for the erection of billboards,
signboards or signs shall be $150 for each square foot thereof, including all
sides, and the same shall be paid to the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Annual inspection fee. An annual fee shall be paid to the Village
Clerk by every person who shall own, be in possession of or control any
billboard, signboard or sign for inspection of the same, which fee shall be $1
per square foot of sign space.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-3) (Ord. 91-169, passed 11-26-1991)
§ 151.193 EXEMPTIONS FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No permit shall be required for any billboard or signboard not exceeding 25
square feet in area when attached to the front, sides or rear walls of any
building, so that the flat surface of the same is against the building, or when
erected on the ground if not erected nearer than ten feet to any building,
structure or other signboard, which is used to advertise the sale or lease of
the property upon which they shall be erected and may be built of wood or other
combustible material; except that, they shall be safely and securely anchored
or fastened.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-4)
§ 151.194 LOCATION OF SIGNS OR BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Erection beyond lot line. No billboard or signboard shall be erected
nearer to the front than the established building line.
   (B)   Erection in certain areas prohibited.
      (1)   No billboard, signboard or sign shall be permitted in any
residential district as defined in the zoning regulations of this code.
      (2)   No billboard or signboard shall be permitted within 300 feet of the
right-of-way line of any state, county or arterial highway, if the face thereof
is visible therefrom.
      (3)   No billboard or signboard shall be permitted within 300 feet of any
property in a residential district.
      (4)   All existing billboards and signboards presently located in
prohibited areas shall be removed by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-5) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.195 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   No signboard or billboard shall exceed 15 feet in height from the
lower part of the billboard or signboard structure, and shall have an open
space of three feet between the lower part of such billboard or signboard
structure and the ground.
      (2)   The face of every billboard or signboard shall be constructed of
galvanized iron, or other equally incombustible material, but the supporting
structure and framework thereof may be of wood. All such billboards or
signboards shall be anchored securely or fastened so as to be safe and
substantial.
      (3)   No billboard, signboard or sign shall be larger than 825 square
feet in gross area.
   (B)   Wind pressure. All billboards, signboards and signs shall be made,
constructed, erected and maintained of sufficient strength to withstand a wind
pressure of 25 pounds per square foot of surface.
   (C)   Certain signs to be non-combustible. No sign having a surface area of
more than 25 square feet shall be attached to the face or side of any building
unless the face of such sign is wholly constructed of metal or other non-
combustible material.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-6) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.196 RECONSTRUCTION OR ALTERATION OF BILLBOARDS.
   No billboard or signboard having a surface area of more than 25 square feet
shall be reconstructed or materially altered without a permit from the Building
Commissioner; provided, however, that, this provision shall not apply to the
changing of any advertising matter.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-7) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.197 MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   Any person who shall maintain billboards, signboards or signs shall keep the
same in good repair and sanitary condition and shall not allow wastepaper or
refuse from such billboards, signboards or signs to accumulate in or about the
premises on which the same are erected or maintained.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-8)
§ 151.198 SIGNS OBSTRUCTING OR ATTACHED TO FIRE ESCAPES.
   Signs shall not obstruct or be attached to any part of a fire escape.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-9) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.199 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Plans and specifications. The Building Commissioner shall inspect all
plans and specifications of any billboard, signboard or sign and to approve the
same if the method of construction and provisions made for fastening, securing,
anchoring and maintaining such billboard, signboard or sign are such as will
serve to protect the public and to render such billboard, signboard or sign
safe and substantial.
   (B)   Annual inspections; dangerous conditions removed. The Building
Commissioner shall cause annual inspections to be made of such structures. In
the event such structure shall become dangerous or unsafe, he or she shall
undertake to have the same remedied in accordance with other applicable
provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-10)
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
§ 151.210 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Village of Dolton
Real Estate Transfer Tax Act”.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 151.211 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BENEFICIAL INTEREST. Any interest, regardless of how small or minimal such
interest may be, in a land trust, held by a trustee for the beneficiaries of
such land trust.
   PERSON. Any natural, individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint stock company, joint venture, public or private corporation or a
receiver, executor, trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by
order of any court.
   RECORDATION. The recording of deeds with the office of Recorder of Deeds or
the registration of deeds with the Registrar of Titles of the county.
   VALUE. The amount of the full actual consideration for any transfer covered
hereunder, including the amount of any lien or liens assumed by the grantee or
purchaser.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 151.212 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   A tax imposed on the privilege of transferring title to real property
located within the corporate limits of the Village of Dolton as evidenced by
the recordation of a deed by any person at the rate of $5 per $1,000 of
property value or fraction thereof.
   (B)   A tax imposed on the privilege of transferring the beneficial interest
in real estate located within the corporate limits of the village at the rate
of $5 per $1,000 of property value or fraction thereof.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 151.213 NATURE AND EXTENT OF TAX.
   The tax herein imposed shall be in addition to all other occupation or
privilege taxes imposed by the village or any municipal corporation or
political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 151.214 LIABILITY OF TAX.
   The ultimate incidence and liability for payment of the tax imposed by this
subchapter shall be borne by the grantor of any deed subject to this subchapter
or by the grantor, assignor or transferor of any instrument conveying the
beneficial interest in real estate within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 151.215 PURCHASE OF STAMPS.
   (A)   The tax levied by this subchapter shall be paid by the purchase of tax
stamps from the Village Clerk or a designated agent.
   (B)   The payment of such tax shall be noted by the adhesive stamp or stamps
affixed to the face of the deed or instrument transferring the beneficial
interest.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 151.216 FILING OF DECLARATION.
   At such time as the tax levied by this subchapter is paid, there shall be
filed with the Village Clerk, a fully executed and completed copy of the real
estate transfer declaration required by § 3 of the Real Estate Transfer Tax Act
of the state, or a declaration of the full consideration paid for the transfer
of beneficial interest which declaration shall be on a form provided by the
Village Clerk.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 151.217 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall not apply to the following
transactions:
      (1)   Transactions involving property acquired by or from any
governmental body or by any corporation, society, association, foundation or
institution organized and operated exclusively for charitable, religious or
educational purposes;
      (2)   Transactions which secure debt or other obligations;
      (3)   Transactions in which deeds, without additional consideration,
confirm, correct, modify or supplement deed previously recorded;
      (4)   Transactions in which the actual consideration is less than $100;
      (5)   Transactions in which the deeds are tax deeds;
      (6)   Transactions which are releases of property which is security for a
debt or other obligations;
      (7)   Transactions of partitions;
      (8)   Transactions made pursuant to mergers, consolidations or transfers
or sales of substantially all of the assets of a corporation pursuant to plans
or reorganization;
      (9)   Transactions between subsidiary corporations and their parents for
no consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of the subsidiary
corporation’s stock;
      (10)   Transactions wherein there is an actual exchange of real property;
except that, the money difference or money’s worth paid from one to the other
shall not be exempt from the tax; and
      (11)   Transactions representing transfers subject to the imposition of a
documentary stamp imposed by the government of the United States.
   (B)   Every deed or other instrument which is tax exempt pursuant to this
section shall be presented to the Village Clerk so as to be appropriately
marked by said Village Clerk as an exempt deed or instrument eligible for
recordation without the payment of tax. At such time as a deed or instrument is
presented to Village Clerk, a certificate setting for the facts which justify
exemption shall be presented.
   (C)   The tax herein levied and imposed shall be collected by the Village
Clerk through the sale of real estate transfer tax stamps, which shall be
caused to be prepared by said Clerk in such quantities as said Clerk may, from
time to time, prescribe. Such stamps shall be substantially in the following
design:
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
VILLAGE OF DOLTON $0000.00
   (D)   Such stamps shall be available for sale at, and during the regular
business hours of the village offices and the offices of such agent as the
village may designate. For the purposes of reviewing a request for the stamps,
the village such process a request within 48 hours of working time. Upon
payment of the tax herein levied and imposed, the stamps so purchased shall be
affixed to the deed or other instrument of conveyance. Any person so using or
affixing a stamp shall cancel it and so deface it as to render it unfit for
reuse by marking it with his or her initials and the day, month and year when
the affixing occurs. Such markings shall be made by writing or stamping in
indelible ink or by perforating with a machine or punch; however, the stamp
shall not be so defaced as to prevent ready determination of its genesis.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993; Ord. 93-231, passed 11-16-1993)
§ 151.218 RECORDATION OF DEED.
   No deed conveying real property within the corporate limits of the village
shall be entitled to recordation by the Recorder of Deeds or the Registrar of
Titles of the county, unless such deed shall bear either a village real estate
transfer tax stamp or an exemption mark from the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993; Ord. 93-231, passed 11-16-1993)
§ 151.219 DUTY OF TRUSTEE.
   No trustee of real estate shall accept an assignment of beneficial interest
in real estate located in the village unless such instrument shall bear either
a village real estate transfer tax stamp or an exemption mark from the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 151.220 PROCEEDS OF TAX.
   All proceeds resulting from the collection of the tax imposed by this
subchapter including interest and penalties shall be paid to the treasury of
the village and shall be credited to and deposited in the General Corporate
Fund of the village.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 151.221 IMPOSITION OF LIEN.
   In the event a deed is filed for recordation or there is an assignment of
beneficial interest conveying real estate within the corporate limits of the
village without the village’s real estate transfer tax stamp as required by
this subchapter, a lien is declared against said real estate conveyed in the
amount of the tax. The fact that the deed assignment does not contain a village
real estate transfer tax stamp shall constitutive notice of the lien. The lien
may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in cases of mortgages or
mechanic’s liens. Suit to foreclose this lien must be commenced within three
years after the date of recordation of the deed or acceptance of the assignment
of beneficial interest by the trustee. Nothing herein shall be construed as
preventing the village from bringing civil action to collect the tax imposed in
this subchapter from any person who has the ultimate liability for payment of
the same, including interest and penalties as herein below provided.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 151.222 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   In the event of failure by a person to pay to the Village Clerk the
tax required hereunder, when the same shall become due, interest shall
accumulate and be due upon said tax at the rate of 1% per month commencing as
of the first day following the date that the deed was recorded or registered or
when the assignment of beneficial interest was accepted by the trustee.
   (B)   In addition, a penalty of 10% of the tax and interest due shall be
assessed and collected against any person who shall fail to pay the tax imposed
by this subchapter.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 151.223 CIVIL LIABILITY FOR TAX.
   (A)   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any taxes herein provided, or
any purchaser or grantee or assignee shall accept a conveyance where the tax
has not been paid, said person, purchaser, grantee or assignee shall be liable
to the village for such tax together with interest and penalties.
   (B)   The village may bring an action to enforce payment of said tax
including interest and penalty in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-1993)
REAL ESTATE WATER STAMP TRANSFER
§ 151.235 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Village of Dolton Real
Estate Water Stamp Transfer Act”.
(Ord. 91-149, passed 4-30-1991)
§ 151.236 APPLICABLE TRANSACTIONS.
   Transactions involving the transfer of title to real property located in the
village as evidenced by the filing or recordation of a deed in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds of the county or in the office of the Registrar of Titles
of the county made after 7-1-1991 shall be subject to the provisions of this
subchapter unless specifically exempted as described below.
(Ord. 91-149, passed 4-30-1991)
§ 151.237 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There shall be a water stamp tax imposed upon all such transactions at
the rate of $50 per transaction.
   (B)   The certification of the transfer stamp(s) shall be valid for only 30
days from the date of issuance.
   (C)   The date of issuance shall be indicated upon the face of each such
transfer stamp imposed.
(Ord. 91-149, passed 4-30-1991; Ord. 07-410, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 151.238 SELLER LIABLE.
   The ultimate incidence of liability for payment of the water stamp tax in
compliance with requirements of this subchapter shall be borne by the grantor
or seller in such transaction.
(Ord. 91-149, passed 4-30-1991)
§ 151.239 WATER STAMP TAX.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be paid to the Village
Collector and shall be evidenced by the issuance of water tax stamps from the
office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services.
   (B)   The payment of such tax shall be denoted by an adhesive stamp or
stamps issued by the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services,
in a form prescribed by the village and such stamp(s) shall be affixed to the
face of the deed or instrument of conveyance.
(Ord. 91-149, passed 4-30-1991; Ord. 03-216, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 151.240 TRANSFER DECLARATION.
   Prior to the water stamp tax being paid, there shall also be presented to
the office of Comptroller and Revenue Administrative Services, a declaration to
be signed by the seller or agent and the purchaser. The declaration shall
contain such information as prescribed by the office of Comptroller and Revenue
Administrative Services and shall include a legal description of the property.
(Ord. 91-149, passed 4-30-1991; Ord. 03-216, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 151.241 UNAUTHORIZED SALE OF WATER STAMPS.
   No person, company, association or corporation shall sell or offer for sale
or otherwise exchange any stamp issued pursuant to this subchapter unless
expressly authorized by the village.
(Ord. 91-149, passed 4-30-1991) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.242 EXEMPT TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   The water stamp tax imposed by this subchapter shall not apply to the
following transactions; provided, said transaction in each case is accompanied
by a certificate setting forth the facts or such other certificate a record as
the designated official may require:
      (1)   Transactions involving property acquired by or from any
governmental body or by any corporation, society, association, foundation or
institution organized and operated exclusively for charitable, religious or
educational purposes;
      (2)   Transactions in which the deeds secure debt or other obligations;
      (3)   Transactions in which the deeds, without additional consideration,
confirm, correct, modify or supplement deeds previously recorded;
      (4)   Transaction in which the actual consideration is less than $500;
      (5)   Transactions in which the deeds are tax deeds;
      (6)   Transactions in which the deeds are releases of property which is
security for a debt or other obligation;
      (7)   Transactions in which the deeds are pursuant to a court decree;
      (8)   Transactions made pursuant to mergers, consolidations or transfers
or sales of substantially all of the assets of a corporation pursuant to plans
of reorganization;
      (9)   Transactions between subsidiary corporations and their parents for
no consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of the subsidiary
corporation’s stock;
      (10)   Transactions wherein there is an actual exchange of real property;
except that, the money difference or money’s worth paid from one or the other
shall not be exempt from the tax;
      (11)   Transactions representing transfers subject to the imposition of a
documentary stamp tax imposed by the government of the United States; and
      (12)   A transfer by lease.
   (B)   The taxes imposed by this subchapter shall not be imposed on or
transferred by an executor or administrator to a legatee, heir or distributee
where the transfer is being made pursuant to will or by intestacy. The tax
provided by this subchapter shall further be exempt where the transaction is
affected by operation of law or upon delivery or transfer in the following
instances:
      (1)   From a descendent to his or her executor or administrator;
      (2)   From a minor to his or her guardian or from a guardian to his or
her ward upon attaining majority;
      (3)   From an incompetent to his or her conservator, or similar legal
representative, or from a conservator or similar legal representative to former
incompetent upon removal of disability;
      (4)   From a bank, trust company, financial institution, insurance
company, or other similar entity, or nominee, custodian or trustee therefor, to
a public officer or commission, or person designated by such officer or
commission or by a court, in the taking over of its assets, in whole or in
part, under state or federal law regulating or supervising such institutions,
nor upon redelivery or retransfer by any such transferee or successor there to;
      (5)   From a bankrupt or person in receivership due to insolvency to
trustee in bankruptcy or receiver, from such receiver to such trustee or from
such trustee to such receiver, nor upon redelivery or retransfer by any such
transferee or successor thereto;
      (6)   From a transferee, under divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5) above, to
his or her successor acting in the same capacity, or from one such successor to
another;
      (7)   From a foreign country or national thereof to the United States any
agency thereof, or to the government of any foreign country directly pursuant
to the authority vested in the President of the United States by § 5(b) of the
Trading with the Enemy Act (40 Stat. 415), as amended by the First War Powers
Act (55 Stat. 839); fine of $1,000 in this section from any person who has the
ultimate liability for payment of the same, including interest and penalties as
herein below provided.
   (C)   All transactions exempt from the provision of §
151.237 of this chapter shall nonetheless require compliance with the
provisions of §
151.240 of this chapter.
(Ord. 91-149, passed 4-30-1991)
§ 151.243 CANCELING STAMPS.
   (A)   Upon payment of the tax herein levied and imposed, the water stamps so
purchased shall be affixed to the deed or other instrument of conveyance.
   (B)   Any person so using and affixing a water stamp or stamps shall cancel
it and so deface it as to render it unfit for reuse by marking it with his or
her initials and the day, month and year when the affixing occurs.
   (C)   Such markings shall be made by writing or stamping in indelible ink or
by pejorating with a machine or punch.
   (D)   However, the water stamp(s) shall not be so defaced as to prevent
ready determination of its denomination and genesis.
(Ord. 91-149, passed 4-30-1991)
§ 151.244 LIEN AND FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   In the event a deed is filed for recordation or there is an assignment of
beneficial interest conveying real estate within the corporate limits of the
village without the water stamps provided by this section, a lien is declared
against said real estate conveyed in the amount of $1,000. The fact that the
deed or assignment does not contain a village stamp shall constitute
constructive notice of the lien. The lien may be enforced by proceedings to
foreclose, as in cases of mortgages of mechanics liens. Suit to foreclose this
lien must be commenced within three years after the date of recording the deed.
Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the village from bringing a
civil action to collect the tax imposed and/or fine of $1,000 in this section
from any person who has the ultimate liability for payment of the same,
including interest and penalties as herein below provided.
(Ord. 91-149, passed 4-30-1991)
DEFAULTED MORTGAGES AND VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
§ 151.255 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of the Board of Trustees to establish a process
to address the deterioration, crime and decline in value of village
neighborhoods caused by property with defaulted mortgages located within the
village, and to identify, regulate, limit and reduce the number of these
properties located within the village. It has been determined that owner-
occupied structures are generally better maintained when compared to vacant
structures, even with a diligent off-site property owner. Vacant structures or
structures owned by individuals who are economically strained and unable to
meet their mortgage obligations are often not properly or diligently
maintained, which contribute to blight, declined property values and have a
negative impact on social perception of the residential areas where they are
located. It is the Board of Trustees’ further intent to establish a
registration program as a mechanism to help protect neighborhoods from becoming
blighted through the lack of adequate maintenance of properties that are in
default or defaulted, and to provide a mechanism to avert foreclosure actions
through timely intervention, education or counseling of property owners.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.256 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DEFAULT. The mortgagor has not complied with the terms of the mortgage on
the property, or the promissory note, or other evidence of the debt, referred
to in the mortgage, as evidenced by the initiation of a foreclosure action.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any law enforcement officer, Building Official, Zoning
Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer, Fire Inspector, Building Inspector or
other person authorized by the village to enforce the applicable code(s).
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to: overgrown and/
or dead vegetation; past due Utility notices and/or disconnected utilities;
accumulation of trash junk or debris; abandoned vehicles, auto parts and/or
materials; the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent with
habitation or occupancy; the presence of an unsanitary, stagnant swimming pool;
the accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail; statements by
neighbors, passers-by, delivery agents or government agents; and/or the
presence of boards over doors, windows or other openings in violation of
applicable code.
   FORECLOSURE or FORECLOSURE ACTION. The legal process by which a mortgagee,
or other lien holder, terminates or attempts to terminate a property owner’s
equitable right of redemption to obtain legal and equitable title to the real
property pledged as security for a debt or the real property subject to the
lien. The legal process is not concluded until the property obtained by the
mortgagee, lien holder or his or her or their designee, by certificate of
title, or any other means, is sold to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an
arm’s length transaction to satisfy the debt or lien.
   MORTGAGEE. The creditor, including, but not limited to: trustees; mortgage
servicing companies; lenders in a mortgage agreement; any agent, servant or
employee of the creditor; any successor in interest; or any assignee of the
creditor’s rights, interests or obligations under the mortgage agreement; or
any other person or entity with the legal right to foreclose on the real
property, excluding governmental entities.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Every person, entity or mortgagee, who alone or severally with
others:
         (a)   Has legal or equitable title to any dwelling, dwelling unit,
mobile dwelling unit, building, structure, parcel of land, vacant or otherwise,
including, but not limited to, a mobile home park;
         (b)   Has legal care, charge or control of any dwelling, dwelling
unit, mobile dwelling unit, building, structure or parcel of land, vacant or
otherwise, including a mobile home park, in any capacity, including, but not
limited to, agent, executor, executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee
or guardian of the estate of the holder of legal title;
         (c)   Is a mortgagee in possession of any such property, or is a
mortgagee with actual control of access to the property by any means including,
but not limited to, changing locks or putting on a lock box; or
         (d)   Is an agent, trustee or other person appointed by the courts and
vested with possession or control of any such property.
      (2)   The property manager shall not be considered the OWNER.
   PROPERTY MANAGER. Any party designated by the owner as responsible for
inspecting, maintaining and securing the property as required in this
subchapter.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any improved residential or commercial land, buildings,
leasehold improvements and anything affixed to the land, or portion thereof
identified by a property parcel identification number, located in the village
limits. Developed lots are considered improved land.
   REGISTERABLE PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any real property located in the village, whether vacant or
occupied, that is encumbered by a mortgage in default, is subject to an ongoing
foreclosure action by the mortgagee or trustee, has been the subject of a
foreclosure action by a mortgagee or trustee and a judgment has been entered,
or has been the subject of a foreclosure sale where the title was transferred
to the beneficiary of a mortgage involved in the foreclosure and any properties
transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale. The designation of a
“default/foreclosure” property as REGISTERABLE shall remain in place until such
time as the property is sold to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an arm’s
length transaction or the foreclosure action has been dismissed and any default
on the mortgage has been cured; or
      (2)   Any property that is vacant for more than 30 days or any
cancellation of utility or service, whichever occurs first.
   REGISTRY. A web-based electronic database of searchable real property
records, used by the village to allow mortgagees/owners the opportunity to
register defaulted/vacant properties and pay applicable fees as required in
this subchapter.
   SEMI-ANNUAL REGISTRATION. Six months from the date of the first action that
requires registration, as determined by the village, or its designee, and every
subsequent six months. The date of the initial registration may be different
than the date of the first action that required registration.
   UTILITIES AND SERVICES. Any utility and/or service that is essential for a
building to be habitable and/or perform a service necessary to comply with all
village codes. This includes, but is not limited to, electrical, gas, water,
sewer, lawn maintenance, pool maintenance and snow removal.
   VACANT. Any parcel of land in the village that contains any building or
structure that is not lawfully occupied.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.257 APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter applies to defaulted and/or vacant property within the
village.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.258 ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of §
151.269 of this chapter, the village, or its designee, shall establish a
registry cataloging each regisetrable property within the village, containing
the information required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.259 INSPECTION AND REGISTRATION OF DEFAULTED MORTGAGE.
   (A)   Any mortgagee who holds a mortgage on real property located within the
village shall perform an inspection of the property upon it being in default or
defaulted by the mortgagor or prior to the issuance of a notice of default.
   (B)   Property inspected pursuant to division (A) above, that remains in
default or defaulted, shall be inspected every 30 days by the mortgagee or
mortgagee’s designee. If an inspection shows a change in the property’s
occupancy status the mortgagee shall, within ten days of that inspection,
update the occupancy status of the property registration.
   (C)   Within ten days of the date any mortgagee declares its mortgage to be
in default or defaulted, the mortgagee shall register the real property with
the village foreclosure registry and, at the time of registration, indicate
whether the property is vacant and, if so, shall designate in writing a
property manager to inspect, maintain and secure the real property subject to
the mortgage in default or defaulted. A separate registration is required for
each defaulted property.
   (D)   Initial registration pursuant to this section shall contain at a
minimum the name of the mortgagee, the mailing address of the mortgagee, e-mail
address, telephone number and name of the property manager and said person’s
address, e-mail address and telephone number.
   (E)   (1)   At the time of initial registration, each registrant shall pay a
non-refundable semi-annual registration fee of $300 for each defaulted
property. Subsequent semi-annual registrations of defaulted properties and fees
in the amount of $300 are due within ten days of the expiration of the previous
registration.
      (2)   Said fees shall be used to offset the costs of:
         (a)   Registration and registration enforcement;
         (b)   Code enforcement and mitigation related to defaulted properties;
         (c)   Post-closing counseling and foreclosure intervention limited to
owner-occupied persons in default, which may not include cash and mortgage
modification assistance; and
         (d)   For any related purposes as may be adopted in the policy set
forth in this subchapter.
      (3)   Said fees shall be deposited to a special account in the village’s
Department dedicated to the cost of implementation and enforcement of this
subchapter, and fulfilling the purpose and intent of this subchapter. None of
the funds provided for in this section shall be utilized for the legal defense
of foreclosure actions.
   (F)   If the defaulted mortgage and/or servicing on a property is sold or
transferred, the new mortgagee is subject to all the terms of this subchapter.
Within ten days of the transfer, the new mortgagee shall register the defaulted
property or update the existing registration. Any and all previous unpaid fees,
fines and penalties, including but not limited to unregistered periods during
the foreclosure process shall be the responsibility of the mortgagee at the
time initial registration and/or semi-annual registrations were required and
are subject to enforcement per this subchapter. If the mortgage on a
registerable property is sold or transferred, the new mortgagee is subject to
all the terms of this subchapter, and within ten days of the transfer or sale
shall update the existing registration. The previous mortgagee will not be
released from the responsibility of paying all previous unpaid fees, fines and
penalties accrued during that mortgagee’s involvement with the defaulted
property. The provisions of this section are cumulative with and in addition to
other available remedies. Moreover, the village is authorized and empowered to
collect on the previous mortgagee’s non-payment of previous fees, fines and
penalties in any lawful manner.
   (G)   If the mortgagee sells or transfers the defaulted property in a non-
arm’s length transaction to a related entity or person, the transferee is
subject to all the terms of this subchapter, and within ten days of the
transfer, shall register the defaulted property or update the existing
registration. Any and all previous unpaid fees, fines and penalties, regardless
of who the mortgagee was at the time registration was required, including, but
not limited to, unregistered periods during the foreclosure process, are the
responsibility of the new owner of the foreclosed property and are due and
payable with the updated registration. The previous mortgagee will not be
released from the responsibility of paying all previous unpaid fees, fines and
penalties accrued during that mortgagee’s involvement with the defaulted
property. The provisions of this section are cumulative with and in addition to
other available remedies. Moreover, the village is authorized and empowered to
collect on the previous mortgagee’s non-payment of previous fees, fines and
penalties in any lawful manner.
   (H)   If the defaulted property is not registered, or either the
registration fee, the semi-annual registration fee or any renewal is not paid
within 30 days of when the registration or semi-annual registration is required
pursuant to this section, a late fee shall be equivalent to 10% of the semi-
annual registration fee shall be charged for every 30-day period, or portion
thereof, the property is not registered and shall be due and payable with the
registration. This section shall apply to the initial registration, renewals
and registrations required by subsequent owners of the defaulted mortgage and/
or defaulted property. Registrations delinquent greater than 30 days are also
subject to additional fines as described herein.
   (I)   This section shall also apply to properties that have been the subject
of a foreclosure sale where title is transferred to the mortgagee as well as
any properties transferred to the mortgagee under a deed in lieu of foreclosure
or by any other legal means.
   (J)   Properties subject to this section shall remain subject to the semi-
annual registration requirement, and the inspection, security and maintenance
standards of this section as long as the mortgage is under foreclosure or in
default or defaulted. Until the mortgage or lien on the property in question is
satisfied, or legally discharged, the desire to no longer pursue foreclosure,
the filing of a dismissal of lis pendens and/or summary of final judgment and/
or certificate of title, voluntary or otherwise, does not exempt any mortgagee
holding the defaulted mortgage, from all the requirements of this subchapter as
long as the borrower is in default.
   (K)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
register or to modify the registration to reflect a change of circumstances as
required by this subchapter is a violation of this subchapter and shall be
subject to enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to the
village.
   (L)   If any property is in violation of this subchapter, the village may
take the necessary action to ensure compliance with and place a lien on the
property for the cost of the outstanding obligation and any additional cost
incurred to the property into compliance.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.260 REGISTRATION OF REAL PROPERTY WHICH IS NOT SUBJECT TO MORTGAGE IN
DEFAULT.
   (A)   Any owner of vacant property located within the village shall within
30 days after the property becomes vacant, or within ten days after assuming
ownership of the property, whichever is later, register the real property with
the village registry.
   (B)   Initial registration pursuant to this section shall contain at a
minimum the name of the owner, the mailing address of the owner, e-mail address
and telephone number of the owner and, if applicable, the name and telephone
number of the property manager and said person’s address, e-mail address and
telephone number.
   (C)   (1)   At the time of initial registration, each registrant shall pay a
non-refundable semi-annual registration fee of $300 for each vacant property.
Subsequent semi-annual registrations of defaulted properties and fees in the
amount of $300 are due within ten days of the expiration of the previous
registration.
      (2)   Said fees shall be used to offset the costs of:
         (a)   Registration and registration enforcement;
         (b)   Code enforcement and mitigation related to vacant properties;
and
         (c)   For any related purposes as may be adopted in the policy set
forth in this subchapter.
      (3)   Said fees shall be deposited to a special account in the village’s
department dedicated to the cost of implementation and enforcement of this
subchapter, and fulfilling the purpose and intent of this subchapter.
   (D)   If the property is sold or transferred, the new owner is subject to
all the terms of this subchapter. Within ten days of the transfer, the new
owner shall register the vacant property or update the existing registration.
Any and all previous unpaid fees, fines and penalties, including, but not
limited to, unregistered periods during the time period the property was vacant
shall be the responsibility of the owner at the time initial registration and/
or semi-annual registrations were required and are subject to enforcement per
this subchapter. The previous owner will not be released from the
responsibility of paying all previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties accrued
during that owner’s involvement with the vacant property. The provisions of
this section are cumulative with and in addition to other available remedies.
Moreover, the village is authorized and empowered to collect on the previous
owner’s nonpayment of previous fees, fines and penalties in any lawful manner.
   (E)   If the vacant property is not registered, or either the registration
fee or the semi-annual registration fee is not paid within 30 days of when the
registration or semi-annual registration is required pursuant to this section,
a late fee shall be equivalent to 10% of the semi-annual registration fee shall
be charged for every 30-day period, or portion thereof, the property is not
registered and shall be due and payable with the registration. This section
shall apply to the initial registration and registrations required by
subsequent owners of the vacant property. Registrations delinquent greater than
30 days are also subject to additional fines, as described herein.
   (F)   Properties subject to this section shall remain subject to the semi-
annual registration requirement, and the inspection, security and maintenance
standards of this section as long as the property is vacant.
   (G)   Failure of the owner to properly register or to modify the
registration to reflect a change of circumstances as required by this
subchapter is a violation of this subchapter and shall be subject to
enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to the village.
   (H)   If any property is in violation of this subchapter, the village may
take the necessary action to ensure compliance with and place a lien on the
property for the cost of the outstanding obligation and any additional cost
incurred to the property into compliance.
   (I)   Properties registered as a result of the defaulted mortgage property
section are not required to be registered again pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.261 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this subchapter shall be kept flee of weeds,
overgrown brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, any
accumulation of newspaper circulars, flyers, notices, except those required by
federal, state or local law, discarded personal items including, but not
limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material
or any other items that give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
   (B)   The property shall be maintained flee of graffiti or similar markings
by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches the color
of the exterior structure.
   (C)   Front, side, and rear yards, including landscaping, shall be
maintained in accordance with the applicable code(s) at the time registration
is required.
   (D)   Yard maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, grass, ground
covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark or
artificial turf/sod. Acceptable maintenance of yards and/or landscape shall not
include weeds, gravel, broken concrete, asphalt or similar material.
   (E)   Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, watering,
irrigation, cutting and mowing of required ground cover or landscape and
removal of all trimmings.
   (F)   Pools and spas shall be maintained so the water remains free and clear
of pollutants and debris and shall comply with the regulations set forth in the
applicable code(s).
   (G)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or owner to properly maintain the
property may result in a violation of the applicable code(s) and issuance of a
citation or notice of violation in accordance with the applicable code of the
village. Pursuant to a finding and determination by the village’s Sheriff,
Magistrate or a court of competent jurisdiction, the village may take the
necessary action to ensure compliance with this section.
   (H)   In addition to the above, the property is required to be maintained in
accordance with the applicable code(s) of the village.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.262 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to these sections shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   (B)   A SECURE MANNER shall include, but not be limited to, the closure and
locking of windows, doors, gates and other openings of such size that may allow
a child to access the interior of the property or structure. Broken windows,
doors, gates and other openings of such size that may allow a child to access
the interior of the property or structure must be repaired. Broken windows
shall be secured by re-glazing of the window.
   (C)   If a property is registerable, and the property has become vacant or
blighted, a property manager shall be designated by the mortgagee or owner to
perform the work necessary to bring the property into compliance with the
applicable code(s), and the property manager must perform regular inspections
to verify compliance with the requirements of this subchapter, and any other
applicable laws.
   (D)   In addition to the above, the property is required to be secured in
accordance with the applicable code(s) of the village.
   (E)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
inspect and secure a property subject to this subchapter, is a violation and
shall be subject to enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to
the village. The village may take the necessary action to ensure compliance
with this section, and recover costs and expenses in support thereof.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.263 PROVISIONS SUPPLEMENTAL.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prohibit the village from
enforcing its codes by any other means, including, but not limited to,
injunction, abatement or as otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.264 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All registerable property is at risk of being a public nuisance and if
vacant or blighted can constitute a public nuisance, the abatement of which
pursuant to the police power is hereby declared to be necessary for the health,
welfare and safety of the residents of the village.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.265 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   If the enforcement officer has reason to believe that a property
subject to the provisions of this subchapter is posing a serious threat to the
public health, safety and welfare, the Code Enforcement Officer may temporarily
secure the property at the expense of the mortgagee or owner, and may bring the
violations before the Code Enforcement Board of Trustees or special magistrate
as soon as possible to address the conditions of the property. Nothing herein
shall limit the village from abating any nuisance or unsafe condition by any
other legal means available to it.
   (B)   The Sheriff, Code Enforcement Board of Trustees or special magistrate
shall have the authority to require the mortgagee or owner affected by this
section, to implement additional maintenance and/or security measures
including, but not limited to, securing any and all doors, windows or other
openings, employment of an on-site security guard or other measures as may be
reasonably required to help prevent further decline of the property.
   (C)   If there is a finding that the condition of the property is posing a
serious threat to public health, safety, and welfare, then the Sheriff, Code
Enforcement Board of Trustees or special magistrate may direct the village to
abate the violations and charge the mortgagee or owner with cost of the
abatement.
   (D)   If the mortgagee or owner does not reimburse the village for the cost
of temporarily securing the property, or of any abatement directed by the
Sheriff, Code Enforcement Officer, Code Enforcement Board of Trustees or
special magistrate, within 30 days of the village sending the mortgagee or
owner the invoice, then the village may lien the property with such cost, along
with an administrative fee as determined in the village’s fee ordinance to
recover the administrative personnel services. In addition to filing a lien,
the village may pursue financial penalties against the mortgagee or owner.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.266 OPPOSING, OBSTRUCTING; ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Whoever opposes obstructs or resists any enforcement officer or any person
authorized by the enforcement office in the discharge of duties as provided in
this subchapter shall be punishable as provided in the applicable code(s) or a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.267 IMMUNITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Any enforcement officer or any person authorized by the village to enforce
the sections here within shall be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal,
for reasonable, good faith entry upon real property while in the discharge of
duties imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.268 VIOLATION.
   Unless otherwise provided for in this subchapter, a violation of this
subchapter is declared unlawful.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.269 AMENDMENTS.
   Registration and penalty fees outlined in this subchapter may be modified by
administrative order, passed and adopted by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Section
151.001 of this chapter shall be enforced by the Building Department. In
addition to any other remedies available to the village, any person who
violates §
151.001 of this chapter:
      (1)   Shall be guilty of a misdemeanor if a natural person or guilty of a
felony if any other person;
      (2)   Shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $750, or a $50
penalty for each day that such violation is found to continue after the date on
which the violator receives written notice from the municipality that he or she
is in violation, whichever is earlier;
      (3)   All stop work orders shall pay a doubled permit fee; and
      (4)   No action may be brought under this division (B) unless the alleged
offender has been served with written notice which clearly sets forth the
nature of the violation with reference to specific provisions of the Building
Code. (A posted stop work order constitutes such notice.)
   (C)   Any owner who fails to take the action demanded in the notice, per §
151.003(A) of this chapter shall also be fined not less than $200 per day, and
not more than $1,000 per day, for each day from the sixteenth day after the
notice has been given until the building has been demolished, repaired or
enclosed. If court action is initiated by the village’s Prosecuting Attorney,
without notice as described in §
151.003(A) of this chapter, the fine shall be imposed beginning on the day the
summons is served on the owner.
   (D)   Refusal of any person to permit entry to any building, structure or
premises by the Building Commissioner, Building Inspector, Electrical Inspector
or Plumbing Inspector or other village officer, as by them designated for the
purpose of inspection as herein provided for, shall be deemed a misdemeanor and
such person, upon conviction of violation of §
151.021 of this chapter, shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
   (E)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of the Building Code adopted by
§
151.035 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine
in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Each day any violation of any provision of
said Building Code adopted by §
151.035 of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1-2)
   (F)   Any person in violation of the provisions of §
151.036(B)(2) of this chapter shall be personally subject to a fine of not less
than $500 for each ordinance violation, plus court costs and reasonable
attorney fees. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2-2)
   (G)   Willful failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or occupant to comply
with the requirements of §
151.043 of this chapter, after the final determination therein provided, shall
be deemed to be a misdemeanor and punishable as such as provided for in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (H)   Any persons owning, controlling or using any electrical apparatus or
equipment, subject to inspection under the provisions of §§
151.055 through
151.063 of this chapter, for a longer period, pending repairs, than specified
in the Electrical Inspector’s report, or who shall use or attempt to use such
apparatus or equipment after the same has been condemned by the Electrical
Inspector or his or her assistant for further use, and before the same has been
removed, fully repaired or renewed and an order for a certificate of inspection
obtained thereon in the manner herein prescribed, or who shall refuse the
Building Commissioner or assistant admittance to the premises where such
apparatus or equipment is located for the purpose of making such inspection or
test, or shall needlessly hinder such inspection or test, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined in
accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-10)
   (I)   (1)   Any person owning, controlling or using any plumbing equipment,
subject to inspection under the provisions of §§
151.075 through
151.087 of this chapter, for a longer period, pending repairs, than specified
in the Plumbing Inspector’s report, or who shall use or attempt to use such
apparatus or equipment after the same has been condemned by the Plumbing
Inspector or his or her assistant for further use, and before the same has been
removed, fully repaired or renewed and an order for a certificate of inspection
obtained thereon in the manner above prescribed herein, or who shall refuse the
Building Commissioner or assistant admittance to the premises where such
apparatus or equipment is located for the purpose of making such inspection or
test, or shall needlessly hinder such inspection or test, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined in
accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of §§
151.075 through
151.087 of this chapter shall, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
be fined in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-14)
   (J)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of the Plumbing Code adopted by
§
151.075 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine
in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1)
   (K)   (1)   Any person owning, controlling or using any heating, ventilating
or air conditioning equipment, subject to inspection under the provisions of §§
151.100 and
151.101 of this chapter, for a longer period, pending repairs, than specified
in the Building Inspector’s report, or who shall use or attempt to use such
apparatus or equipment after the same has been condemned by the Building
Inspector his or her assistant, for further use and before the same has been
removed, fully repaired or renewed and an order for a certificate of inspection
obtained therefor, in the manner prescribed herein, or who shall refuse the
Building Commissioner or assistant admittance to the premises where such
apparatus or equipment is located for the purpose of making such inspection or
test, or shall needlessly hinder such inspection or test, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined in
accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of §§
151.100 and
151.101 of this chapter shall, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
be fined in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-3)
   (L)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation, who shall violate any provision
of §§
151.115 through
151.124 of this chapter or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements
thereof, shall be guilty of an offense against the village, punishable by a
fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500, and such other penalties as may
be provided. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-12)
      (2)   The fine for violations of §
151.121 of this chapter shall be $500 per day for each day the violations
remain uncorrected.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-7)
   (M)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
151.155 through
151.160 of this chapter, or permitting any unsafe building or any building or
structure to remain in an unsafe condition, or to remain in the fire limits
after it has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its value, shall be fined in
accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-7)
      (2)   Any person in violation of any provision of §
151.157 of this chapter shall be personally subject to a fine of not less than
$500, but not to exceed $1,000, for each ordinance violation, plus court costs
and reasonable attorney fees. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-3)
      (3)   Willful failure, neglect or refusal of the owner to comply with the
requirements of the resolution provided for in §
151.158 of this chapter, after the final determination therein provided, shall
be deemed to be a misdemeanor and punishable as such as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-4)
   (N)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided, any person found guilty of violating
any of the provisions of §§
151.190 through
151.199 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500. Each
day any violation of any provision of §§
151.190 through
151.199 of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-11)
      (2)   Any person violating §
151.198 of this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-9)
   (O)   In addition to the other provisions of §§
151.210 through
151.223 of this chapter, any person found guilty in a court of competent
jurisdiction of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to
comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any provision of §§
151.210 through
151.223 of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine
of not less than $500, nor more than $1,000, for each offense.
   (P)   Any person, partnership, association or corporation found guilty of
violating or failing to comply with the provisions of §§
151.235 through
151.244 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in the amount of not less
than $500, and no more than $1,000, in addition to all such penalties for
payment of the actual tax as may be due the village.
   (Q)   Any person who violates any provision of §
151.257 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $200 and not more than
$1,000 for each offense. Every day that a violation continues shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 5-15-1984; Ord. 91-149, passed 4-30-1991; Ord. 93-217, passed 8-3-
1993; Ord. 97-339, passed 7-21-1997; Ord. 06-334, passed 2-6-2006; Ord. 07-393,
passed 4-16-2007; Ord. 07-394, passed 4-16-2007; Ord. 09-485, passed 11-2-2009;
Ord. 12-567, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 15-038, passed 7-24-2015)
CHAPTER 152: FIRE CODE; PREVENTION
Section
Fire Prevention Code
   
152.001   Codes and standards adopted; interpretation
   
152.002   Smoke and heat venting devices
   
152.003   Inspections
   
152.004   Fire inspections
   
152.005   Building standards
   
152.006   Tenant space standards
Flammable Liquids
   
152.020   Storage, handling, manufacture, transportation, sale or use
   
152.021   Appliances using flammable liquids
   
152.022   Storage tanks
   
152.023   Regulations for businesses with flammable liquids on the premises
 
   
152.999   Penalty
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 152.001 CODES AND STANDARDS ADOPTED; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The following codes and standards are hereby adopted by reference, and
said codes and standards shall be and are the Fire Prevention Code and
standards of the village:
      (1)   IBC International Building Code - 2012 Edition;
      (2)   IFC International Fire Code - 2012 Edition;
      (3)   IFGC International Fuel Gas Code - latest edition;
      (4)   IEC International Code Council Electrical Code - latest edition;
and
      (5)   NFPA National Fire Protection Association Life Safety Code 101 -
latest edition:
         (a)   NFPA 13 Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems;
         (b)   NFPA 72 National Fire Alarm Code;
         (c)   NFPA 70 National Electrical Code;
         (d)   Applicability of the state-adopted Life Safety Code; and
         (e)   IMC International Mechanical Code - 2012 Edition.
   (B)   If a more recent edition of one of the codes set forth above have been
adopted by another village department, including, but not limited to, building,
plumbing, electrical codes, or if a more stringent code has been adopted, the
more recent or more stringent code shall be followed.
(Ord. 15-048, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 152.002 SMOKE AND HEAT VENTING DEVICES.
   In addition to the provisions of §
152.001 of this chapter, the Fire Chief and the Building Commissioner, acting
jointly, shall have the authority to require such smoke and heat venting
devices, or other fire safety features, which may be necessary and are
consistent with nationally-recognized good practices.
(Ord. 15-048, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 152.003 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. Fire safety inspections will be conducted at business and
commercial properties. The purpose and goal of this fire inspection program is
to encourage a community safe from fire. During these inspections, items such
as construction, occupancy, built-in and portable fire protection equipment,
and other fire safety related issues shall be reviewed.
   (B)   School inspections. All public and private schools in the village
shall be subject to inspection. These school inspections shall be conducted in
the presence of school personnel in order to ensure the fire safety of all
school-aged children. The school inspections shall satisfy the requirements of
the state’s Regional Office of Education (ROE), which requires that all schools
complete a housekeeping inspection during the school year in cooperation with
the local Fire Department.
   (C)   Authority; entry powers. The Building Commissioner, the Fire Chief and
their duly authorized representatives are hereby authorized to make inspections
of all buildings, structures and premises located within the village to
determine their compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. Such
inspections shall be made between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on any
days, except Sunday and legal holidays, subject to the following condition.
      (1)   Such inspection may take place only if a complaint respecting said
premises has been received by the Fire Chief or the Building Commissioner and
such complaint, in the opinion of the Fire Chief or Building Commissioner
provides reasonable grounds for belief that a violation exists, or such
inspection is undertaken as part of a regular inspection program whereby
certain areas of the village are being inspected in their entirety by the
direction of the Fire Chief or the Village President.
      (2)   Such inspections shall be made by the Building Commissioner, the
Fire Chief or their duly authorized representative upon direction of either
said officers.
      (3)   Any person making such inspection shall furnish to the owner or
occupant of the structure sought to be inspected, sufficient identification and
information to enable the owner or occupant to determine that he or she is a
representative of the village, and to determine the purpose of said inspection.
      (4)   The Building Inspector, the Fire Chief or any duly authorized
representative, upon the direction of either of said officers, may apply to any
court having competent jurisdiction, for a search warrant or other legal
process for the purpose of securing entry to any premises if the owner refuses
to grant entry.
   (D)   Regular inspections of fire hazards; removal ordered.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to inspect or cause to be
inspected by officers and members of the Fire Department, as often as may be
necessary, but not less than twice a year in outlying districts and four times
a year in the closely built portions of the village, all buildings, premises
and pubic thoroughfares and private dwellings on complaints, for the purpose of
ascertaining, and causing to be corrected, any conditions liable to cause fire
or any violation of the provisions or intent of any provision of the village
code affecting the fire hazard.
      (2)   Whenever any inspector shall find in any building or upon any
premises of other place, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous
accumulations of rubbish or unnecessary accumulations of wastepaper, boxes,
shavings or any highly flammable materials, and which are so situated as to
endanger property; or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs,
passageways, doors or windows that would interfere with the operations of the
Fire Department or egress of occupants in case of fire, the inspector shall
order the owner or occupant to remove the same. The owner or occupant of the
premises or building(s) shall comply with such order subject to appeal within
24 hours to the Fire Chief, as provided in division (E) below.
         (a)   Any owner or occupant who fails to comply with such order within
the time fixed by the Building Commissioner or the Fire Chief, after service of
the order, shall be liable to a penalty as set from time to time by the
President and Board of Trustees.
         (b)   The service of any such order may be made upon the occupant of
the premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering a copy of the same to
such occupant personally or by delivering the same to and leaving it with any
person in charge of the premises, or in case no such person is found, by
affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of
the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order upon the
owner of the premises, such order may be served either by delivering to and
leaving with the person, a copy of the order or, if such owner is absent from
the jurisdiction of the inspector making the order, by mailing such copy to the
owner’s last known post office address.
   (E)   Inspections resulting from complaints; procedures. The Fire Chief, or
his or her duly authorized representatives, upon the complaint of any person or
whenever it is deemed necessary, shall inspect all buildings and premises
within their jurisdiction. Whenever it is found that any building or other
structure which, for want of repairs, lack of or insufficient fire escapes,
automatic or other fire alarm apparatus or fire extinguishing equipment, or by
reason of age or dilapidated condition, or from any other cause, is especially
susceptible to fire, and which is so situated as to endanger other property or
the occupants thereof, the Fire Chief or his or her duly authorized
representatives shall order such dangerous conditions or materials to be
removed or remedied and the owner or occupant shall comply with such order
within the time set forth in the order. If such order is made by an authorized
representative, the owner or occupant may, within 24 hours, appeal to the Fire
Chief, who shall consider the matter and if, in his or her opinion, the matter
is of sufficient importance, shall notify the President and Board of Trustee
who shall take such action as is appropriate.
(Ord. 15-048, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 152.004 FIRE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and jurisdiction. The express purpose of this section is to
protect and safeguard the safety and welfare of the citizens of the village by
rendering qualified and periodic inspections of commercial and industrial
buildings and structures within the village to discover and correct conditions
which, by reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any
other cause, become especially susceptible to fire or more likely to cause
injury or damage by collapse or otherwise. To ensure the adequacy and periodic
provision of such inspectional services, and to maintain an accurate record of
all inspected premises, a schedule of inspectional fees is established to
offset inspectional expenses. All commercial and industrial buildings and
structures in the village shall be in full compliance with the provisions of
this section, along with all other applicable provisions of this code and the
regulations of the village.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust
or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in a
commercial or industrial establishment to maintain and manage its operation.
      TENANT. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
trust or other legal entity renting or otherwise occupying or using a
commercial or industrial building or structure, or any part thereof, other than
as an owner.
   (C)   Inspectional fees.
      (1)   Commercial, business and industrial properties.
         (a)   Initial inspection fee: $100;
         (b)   Fifteen to 30 calendar day follow-up inspection fee: $0; and
         (c)   All other follow-up inspection fees due to infractions are $100
per inspection until occupancy is approved by the Fire Chief or his or her duly
authorized representative.
      (2)   Unpaid fees. Inspectional fees shall be paid by the tenant of any
property required to be inspected under this subchapter. It shall be the
owner’s responsibility to notify the Village Clerk’s office of the name of each
such tenant. In case of vacant space in any such property, the owner shall be
responsible for the inspectional fee. The owner shall also be responsible for
said inspectional fee if the tenant fails to pay said fee. In that case, the
owner will be notified by the village of non-payment by the tenant and the
owner shall then immediately become responsible for payment of the inspectional
fee. Non-payment may result in a lien against the property.
   (D)   Records.
      (1)   The village’s Building Department shall cause a file to be
maintained and kept current on each commercial, business and industrial
building or structure.
      (2)   A copy of all inspections made by the village shall be placed
therein together with other pertinent data relating to each. Copies of all
inspections shall also be maintained by the Fire Department.
(Ord. 15-048, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 152.005 BUILDING STANDARDS.
   All houses, buildings and structures shall comply with the following
standards.
   (A)   Base building.
      (1)   Sprinkler control.
         (a)   Accessible. Immediate access to Fire Department connections
shall be maintained at all times and without obstruction by fences, bushes,
trees, walls or any other object for a minimum of three feet.
(IFC 912.3)
         (b)   Signs. A metal sign with raised letters at least one inch (25mm)
in size shall be mounted on all Fire Department connections serving automatic
sprinklers, standpipes or fire pump connections. Such signs shall read:
“AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS” or “STANDPIPES” or “TEST CONNECTIONS” or a combination
thereof as applicable.
(IFC 912.4)
      (2)   Fire Department connection.
         (a)   Accessible. Immediate access to Fire Department connections
shall be maintained at all times and without obstruction by fences, bushes,
trees, walls or any other object for a minimum of three feet.
(IFC 912.3)
         (b)   Caps and plugs. The Fire Code Official is authorized to require
locking caps on Fire Department connections for water-based fire protection
systems where the responding Fire Department appropriate key wrenches for
removal.
(IFC 912.3.1)
         (c)   Inspection, testing and maintenance. All Fire Department
connections shall be periodically inspected, tested and maintained in
accordance with NFPA 25.
(IFC 912.6)
      (3)   Electrical service.
         (a)   Support on building. Electrical equipment shall be secured to
the surface on which it is mounted.
(IEC 110-13)
         (b)   Clearance. Clearance of all service drops shall have vertical
clearance of not less than eight feet from roof surface, ten feet from
electrical service entrance to the building, 15 feet over residential driveways
and those commercial area not subject to truck traffic and 18 feet over public
streets, alleys, roads and parking areas subject to truck traffic.
(IEC 230-24)
      (4)   Gas meters; protection. Above ground gas meters, regulators and
piping subject to damage shall be protected by a barrier complying with IFC 312
or otherwise protected in an approved manner.
(IFC 603.9)
      (5)   Exit discharge; obstruction. A means of egress shall be free from
obstructions that would prevent its use, including the accumulation of ice and
snow.
(IFC 1027.3)
      (6)   Stairway and fire escapes.
         (a)   Obstruction. A means of egress shall be free from obstruction
that would prevent its use, including the accumulation of ice and snow.
(IFC 1027.3)
         (b)   Storage. Required exit accesses, exits or exit discharges shall
be continuously maintained free from obstructions or impediments to full
instant use in case of fire or other emergency. Security devices affecting the
means of egress shall be subject to approval of the Fire Code Official.
(IFC 1027.2)
         (c)   General maintenance. The means of egress for buildings or
portions thereof shall be maintained in accordance with this section.
(IFC 1027.1)
         (d)   Address displayed: duty of owners. Prior to the issuance of an
occupancy permit for any new buildings, additions, alterations or any changes
for which an occupancy permit is required, other than for accessory buildings,
it shall be the owner’s duty to have placed the address of the building in a
location easily observed, clear of obstruction and readable from the roadway,
alley or similar access. House or building numbers shall contrast with the
background, shall be constructed of durable materials, be permanently installed
and be readily visible. Script or written numbers are not permitted. On corner
lots where the building faces the intersecting street, additional numbers shall
also be placed on the side of the building’s street address.
      (7)   Electrical equipment.
         (a)   Shut-offs. A service disconnecting means shall be provided in an
accessible location.
(IEC 230-70)
         (b)   Access to shut-off. Shut-off valves shall be located in places
so as to provide access for operation and shall be installed so as to be
protected from damage.
(IFGC 409.1.3)
   (B)   Inside base building.
      (1)   Entrance/exit.
         (a)   Number. It shall be unlawful to alter a building or structure in
a manner that will reduce the number of exits or the capacity of the means of
egress to less than required by this code.
(IFC 1001.2)
         (b)   Obstruction. A means of egress shall be free from obstructions
that would prevent its use, including the accumulation of ice and snow.
(IFC 1027.3)
         (c)   Reliability. Required exit accesses, exit or exit discharges
shall be continuously maintained free from obstructions or impediments to full
instant use in case of fire or other emergency. Security devices affecting the
means of egress shall be subject to approval of the Fire Code Official.
(IFC 1027.2)
      (2)   Common stairways.
         (a)   Enclosures. Interior exit stairways and interior exit ramps
shall be enclosed with fire barriers. Exit enclosures shall have a fire
resistance rating of not less than two hours where connecting four floors or
more and not less than one hour rating where connecting less than four floors.
(IFC 1019.1)
         (b)   Stairway width. The width of stairways shall be determined as
specified in IFC 1005.1, but such width shall not be less than 44 inches
(1118mm). See IFC 1007.3 for accessible means of egress stairways.
(IFC 1009.1)
         (c)   Stairway doors swing. Interior stairway means of egress doors
shall be operable from both sides without the use of a key or special knowledge
or effort.
(IFC 1008.1.8.7)
         (d)   Maintenance. The means of egress for buildings or portions
thereof shall be maintained in accordance with IFC 1027.1.
(IFC 1027.1)
         (e)   Hardware. Where panic hardware is installed, it shall comply
with the following:
            1.   The actuating portion of the release device shall extend at
least one-half of the door leaf width; and
            2.   A maximum unlatching force of 15 pounds.
(IFC 1008.1.9)
      (3)   Common storage.
         (a)   Condition/housekeeping. Storage of combustible materials in
buildings shall be orderly. Storage shall be separated from heaters or heating
devices by distance or shielding so that ignition cannot occur.
(IFC 315.2)
         (b)   Storage ceiling height. Storage shall not be within two feet or
more below the ceiling in a non-sprinkled area of a building or a minimum of 18
inches below sprinkler head deflectors in sprinklered areas of the building.
(IFC 315.2.1)
   (C)   HVAC equipment base building.
      (1)   Access. The installation shall be readily accessible for the
cleaning of hot surfaces; removing burners; replacing motors, controls, air
filters, chimney connectors, draft regulators and other working parts; and for
adjusting, cleaning and lubricating parts.
(IFC 603.1.5; IFGC 306.1)
      (2)   Proper installation. Heating appliances shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, the International Building
Code, the International Mechanical Code, the International Fuel Gas Code and
the ICC Electrical Code.
(IFC 603.5.2)
      (3)   Combustion air. Unvented fuel-fired heating equipment shall not be
located in or obtain combustion air from any of the following rooms or spaces:
sleeping rooms; bathrooms; toilet rooms; or storage closets.
(IFC 603.4.1)
      (4)   Fuel shut-offs. Shut-off valves shall be of an approved type. Shut-
off valves shall be constructed of material compatible with the gas piping.
Shut-off valves installed in a portion of a piping system operating above 0.5
psig shall comply with ASME B 16.33. Shut-off valves installed in a portion of
a piping system operating at 0.5 psig or less shall comply with ANSI Z 21/15 or
ASME B 16.33.
(IFC 409.1.1)
      (5)   Boiler certificate. Upon completion of assembly and installation of
boilers and pressure vessels, acceptance test shall be conducted in accordance
with the requirements of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. Where field
assembly of pressure vessels or boilers is required, a copy of the completed U-
1 Manufacturer’s Data report required by the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel
Code shall be submitted to the Fire Code Official.
(IMC 1011.1)
      (6)   Clear of combustibles. Open flames such as from candles, lanterns,
kerosene heaters and gas-fired heaters shall not be located on or near
decorative materials or similar combustible materials.
(IFC 308.3.3)
      (7)   Condition of units. The provisions of subchapter shall apply to the
installation, operation and maintenance of fuel-fired appliances and heating
systems, emergency and standby power systems, electrical systems and equipment
and mechanical refrigeration systems.
(IFC 601.1)
   (D)   Common electrical base building.
      (1)   Common panel.
         (a)   Access. A clearance of not less than 30 inches shall be provided
between all electrical service equipment and storage.
(IEC 110-9; IFC 605.3)
         (b)   Property marked. Each disconnecting means shall be legibly
marked.
(IEC 110-22)
      (2)   Circuits.
         (a)   Proper size. Equipment intended to break current at fault levels
shall have a rating sufficient for the system voltage.
(IEC 110-9)
         (b)   Identified. Each service, feeder or branch circuit should be
identified at the point where it originates and shall be legibly marked to
indicate its purpose.
(IEC 110-22)
         (c)   Unused openings. Unused openings in boxes and circuit bodies and
fittings shall be closed. Unused openings in cabinets or cutout boxes shall
also be closed.
(IEC 373-4)
      (3)   Outlets.
         (a)   Proper locations/proper number. Identified electrical hazards
shall be abated. Identified hazardous electrical conditions in permanent wiring
shall be brought to the attention of the Fire Code official responsible for
enforcement of the National Electrical Code.
(IFC 605.1)
         (b)   Covers. Each electrical outlet box shall have a cover, faceplate
or fixture canopy. Open junction boxes and open wiring splices shall be
prohibited. Appropriate covers shall be provided for all switches and
electrical boxes.
(IEC 370-15)
      (4)   Egress/emergency lighting; operational/adequate. The power supply
for means of egress illumination shall normally be provided by the premises’
electrical supply. In the event of a power system failure, illumination shall
be automatically provided form an emergency system for occupancies where two or
more means of egress are required.
(IFC 1026.5)
      (5)   Exit signs.
         (a)   Where required. Exits and exit access doors shall be marked by
an approved exit sign readily visible from any direction of egress travel.
Access to the exits shall be marked by readily visible exit signs in cases
where the exit or path of egress travel is not immediately visible to the
occupants. Exit sign placement shall be such that no point in an exit access
corridor is more than 100 feet (30,480 mm) or the listed distance for the sign,
whichever is less, from the nearest visible exit sign.
(IFC 1011.1)
         (b)   Illumination. Exit signs shall be internally or externally
illuminated.
(IFC 1011.2)
      (6)   Key lock box maintenance (Knox box).
         (a)   Required. Where access to or within a structure or an area is
restricted because of secured openings or where immediate access for life-
saving or firefighting purposes, the Fire Code Official shall be authorized to
require a key box to be installed in an approved location. The key box shall be
of an approved type and shall contain keys to gain necessary access as required
by the Fire Code official.
(IFC 506.1)
         (b)   Maintenance. The operator of the building shall immediately
notify the Fire Code official and provide the new key when a lock is changed or
rekeyed. The key to such lock shall be secured in the key box.
(IFC 506.2)
(Ord. 15-048, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 152.006 TENANT SPACE STANDARDS.
   All tenant spaces shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   General information.
      (1)   Entrance/exit interior.
         (a)   Number. All rooms and spaces within each story shall be provided
and have access to the minimum number of approved independent exits required by
IFC Table 10181 based on the occupant load, except as modified in IFC 1014.1 or
1018.2.
(IFC 1018.1)
         (b)   Obstructed. A means of egress shall be free from obstructions
that would prevent its use, including the accumulation of ice and snow.
(IFC 1027.3)
         (c)   Reliability. Required exit accesses, exit or exit discharges
shall be continuously maintained free from obstructions or impediments to the
full instant use in case of fire or other emergency. Security devices affecting
means of egress shall be subject to approval of the Fire Code Official.
(IFC 1027.2)
         (d)   Door swing. All means of egress doors shall be of a side-hinged
swing type.
(IFC 1008.1.2)
         (e)   Hardware. Doors, handles, pulls, latches, locks and other
operating devices on doors required to be accessible by Ch. 11 of the
International Building Code, shall not require grasping, tight pinching or
twisting of the wrist to operate.
(IFC 1008.1.8.1)
         (f)   Address/suite number. It is the duty of owners, prior to the
issuance of an occupancy permit for any new buildings, additions, alterations
or any changes for which an occupancy permit is required, other than for
accessory buildings, to place, in a location easily observed, clear of
obstruction and readable from the roadway, alley or similar access, the house
or building number. House or building numbers shall contrast with the
background, shall be constructed of durable materials, be permanently installed
and be readily visible. Script or written numbers are not permitted. On corner
lots, where the building faces the intersecting street, additional numbers
shall also be placed on the side of the building’s street address.
      (2)   Stairways.
         (a)   Enclosure. Interior exit stairways and interior exit ramps shall
be enclosed with fire barriers. Exit enclosures shall have a fire resistance
rating of not less than two hours where connecting four floors or more and not
less than one hour rating where connecting less than four floors.
(IFC 1019.1)
         (b)   Capacity. Where exits serve more than one floor, only the
occupant load of each floor considered individually shall be used in computing
the required capacity of the exits at that floor, provided that exit capacity
shall not decrease in the direction of egress travel.
(IBC 706.1)
         (c)   Door swing. Interior stairway means of egress doors shall be
operable from both sides without the use of a key or special knowledge or
effort.
(IFC 1008.1.8.7)
         (d)   Obstruction/condition. A means of egress shall be free from
obstructions that would prevent its use, including the accumulation of ice and
snow.
(IFC 1027.3)
         (e)   Hardware. Where panic hardware is installed, it shall comply
with the following:
            1.   The actuating portion of the release device shall extend at
least one-half of the door leaf width; and
            2.   A maximum unlatching force of 15 pounds.
(IFC 1008.1.9)
      (3)   Corridors/aisles.
         (a)   Width. The minimum corridor width shall be as determined in IFC
1005.1, but not less than 44 inches.
(IFC 1016.2)
         (b)   Continuity. Fire resistance rated corridors shall be continuous
from the point of entry to an exit, and shall not be interrupted by intervening
rooms.
(IFC 1016.5)
      (4)   Firewalls.
         (a)   Separation. Fire barriers used for separation of shafts, exits,
exit passageways, horizontal exits or incidental use areas, to separate
different occupancies to separate a single occupancy into different fire areas,
or to separate other areas where a fire barrier is required elsewhere in this
code or the International Fire Code, shall comply with IBC 707.
(IBC 706.1.)
         (b)   Fire doors and frames. Means of egress doors shall meet the
requirements of IFC 1008.1. Doors serving a means of egress shall meet the
requirements of IFC 1008.1 and 1017.2. Doors provided for egress purposes in
numbers greater than required by this code, shall meet the requirements of IFC
1008.1.
(IFC 1008.1)
         (c)   Door hardware. Where panic hardware is installed, it shall
comply with the following:
            1.   The actuating portion of the release device shall extend at
least one-half of the door leaf width; and
            2.   A maximum unlatching force of 15 pounds.
(IFC 1008.1.9)
      (5)   Storage.
         (a)   Height. Storage in buildings and structures shall be maintained
two feet or more below the ceiling in non-sprinklered areas of buildings or a
minimum of 18 inches below sprinkler head deflectors in sprinklered areas of
the building.
(IFC 315.2.1)
         (b)   Housekeeping. Storage of combustible materials in buildings and
structures shall be orderly. Storage shall be separated from heaters and
heating devices by distance or shielding so that ignition cannot occur.
(IFC 315.2)
         (c)   “No Smoking” signs. The Fire Code Official is authorized to
order the posting of “No Smoking” signs in conspicuous locations in each
structure or locations in which smoking is prohibited. The content, lettering,
size, color and location of required “No Smoking” signs shall be approved by
the Fire Code Official.
(IFC 310.3)
   (B)   Restaurants; hoods and ducts. Commercial kitchen exhaust systems shall
comply with the International Mechanical Code.
(IFC 60.)
   (C)   Compressed gas.
      (1)   Properly secured. All compressed gas containers, cylinders and
tanks shall be secured to prevent falling caused by contract, vibration or
seismic activity.
(IFC 3003.3.3)
      (2)   Marking. Stationary and portable compressed gas containers,
cylinder tanks and systems shall be marked in accordance with IFC 3003.2.1,
3003.2.2 and 3003.2.3.
(IFC 3003.2)
      (3)   “No Smoking” signs. The Fire Code Official is authorized to order
the posting of “No Smoking” signs in conspicuous locations in each structure or
locations in which smoking is prohibited. The content, lettering, size, color
and location of required “No Smoking” signs shall be approved by the Fire Code
official.
(IFC 310.3)
   (D)   HVAC equipment.
      (1)   Units.
         (a)   Access. The installation shall be readily accessible for the
cleaning of hot surfaces; removing burners; replacing motors, controls, air
filters, chimney connectors, draft regulators and other working parts; and for
adjusting, cleaning and lubricating parts.
(IFC 603.1.5)
         (b)   Heating appliance installation. Heating appliances shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, the International
Building Code, the International Mechanical Code, the International Fuel Gas
Code and the ICC Electrical Code.
(IFC 603.5.2)
         (c)   Combustion air. Unvented fuel fired heating equipment shall not
be located in or obtain combustion air from any of the following rooms or
spaces: sleeping rooms; bathrooms; toilet rooms; or storage closets.
(IFC 603.4.1)
         (d)   Fuel shut-offs. Shut-off valves shall be of an approved type.
Shut-off valves shall be constructed of material compatible with the gas
piping. Shut-off valves installed in a portion of a piping system operating
above 0.5 psig shall comply with ASME B 16.33. Shut-off valves installed in a
portion of a piping system operating at 0.5 psig or less shall comply with ANSI
Z 21/15 or ASME B 16.33.
(IFGC 409.1.1)
         (e)   Boiler certificate. Upon completion of assembly and installation
of boilers and pressure vessels, acceptance test shall be conducted in
accordance with the requirements of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.
Where field assembly of pressure vessels or boilers is required, a copy of the
completed U-1 Manufacturer’s Data report required by the ASME Boiler and
Pressure Vessel Code shall be submitted to the Fire Code official.
(IMC 1011.1).
         (f)   Clear of combustibles. Open flames such as from candles,
lanterns, kerosene heaters and gas fired heaters shall not be located on or
near decorative materials or similar combustible materials.
(IFC 308.3.3)
         (g)   Condition of units. The provisions of subchapter shall apply to
the installation, operation and maintenance of fuel-fired appliances and
heating systems, emergency and standby power systems, electrical systems and
equipment and mechanical refrigeration systems.
(IFC 601.1)
      (2)   Ducts; damper access. Fire and smoke dampers shall be provided with
an approved means of access, large enough to permit inspection and maintenance
of the damper and its operating parts. The access shall not affect the
integrity of the fire resistance rated assemblies. The access shall not reduce
the fire resistance rating assembly. Access points shall be permanently
identified on the exterior by a label having letters not less than one-half
inches (12.7 mm) in height reading: “SMOKE DAMPER” or “FIRE DAMPER”. Access
doors in ducts shall be tight-fitting and suitable for required duct
construction.
(IMC 607.4)
   (E)   Electrical.
      (1)   Control panel.
         (a)   Properly marked. Each disconnecting means required by this code
for motors and appliances, and each service, feeder or branch circuit at the
point where it originates, shall be legibly marked to indicate its purpose,
unless located and arranged so the purpose is evident. The marking shall be of
sufficient durability to withstand the environment involved. Where circuit
breakers or fuses are applied in compliance with the series combination ratings
marked on the equipment by the manufacturer, the equipment enclosure(s) shall
be legibly marked in the field to indicate the equipment has been applied with
a series combination rating. The marking shall be readily visible and state the
following:
 
CAUTION - SERIES COMBINATION SYSTEM
RATED                      AMPERES. IDENTIFIED REPLACEMENT
COMPONENTS REQUIRED. (IEC 110-22).
 
         (b)   Access. A clearance of not less than 30 inches shall be provided
between all electrical service equipment and storage.
(IEC 110-9)
      (2)   Circuits.
         (a)   Proper sizes. Equipment intended to interrupt current at fault
levels shall have an interrupting rating sufficient for the nominal circuit
voltage and the current that is available at the line terminals of the
equipment. Equipment intended to interrupt at other than fault levels shall
have an interrupting rating at nominal circuit voltage sufficient for the
current that must be interrupted.
(IEC 110-9)
         (b)   Identified. Each disconnecting means required by this code for
motors and appliances, and each service, feeder or branch circuit at the point
where it originates, shall be legibly marked to indicate its purpose unless
located and arranged so the purpose is evident. The marking shall be of
sufficient durability to withstand the environment involved. Where circuit
breakers or fuses are applied in compliance with the series combination ratings
marked on the equipment by the manufacturer, the equipment enclosure(s) shall
be legibly marked in the field to indicate the equipment has been applied with
a series combination rating. The marking shall be readily visible and state the
following:
 
CAUTION - SERIES COMBINATION SYSTEM
RATED                      AMPERES. IDENTIFIED REPLACEMENT
COMPONENTS REQUIRED. (IEC 110-22).
 
         (c)   Unused openings. Unused openings in enclosures within the scope
of this subchapter shall be effectively closed to afford protection
substantially equivalent to that of the enclosures within the scope of this
subchapter. Where metal plugs or plates are used with non-metallic cabinets or
cutout boxes, they shall be recessed at least 6.35 mm from the outer surface.
(IEC 373-4)
      (3)   Outlets.
         (a)   Proper location. Hazardous conditions arising from defective or
improperly used or installed wiring, equipment or appliances shall be
remediated.
(IFC 605.1)
         (b)   Proper number. Hazardous conditions arising from improperly used
outlets (multiple pieces of equipment and appliances) shall be remediated.
(IFC 605.1)
         (c)   Covers. each outlet box shall have a cover, faceplate or fixture
canopy. Open junction boxes and open wiring splices shall be prohibited.
Appropriate covers shall be provided for all switch and electrical boxes.
(IFC 605.6)
      (4)   Extension cords.
         (a)   Condition. Extension cords shall not be used as a substitute for
permanent wiring. Extension cords and flexible cords shall not be fixed to
structures, extended through walls, ceilings or floors, or under doors or floor
coverings; nor shall such cords be subject to environmental damage or physical
impact.
(IFC 605.5)
         (b)   Maintenance. Extension cords shall be maintained in good
condition, without splices, deterioration or damage.
(IFC 605.5.3)
         (c)   Temporary wiring. Temporary wiring for electrical power and
lighting installations is allowed for a period not to exceed 90 days. Temporary
wiring methods shall meet the applicable provisions of the National Electrical
Code.
(IFC 605.5, 605.9)
      (5)   Egress/emergency lighting; operational/adequate. The power supply
for means of egress illumination shall normally be provided by the premises’
electrical supply. In the event of a power system failure, illumination shall
be automatically provided form an emergency system for occupancies where two or
more means of egress are required.
(IFC 1026.5)
      (6)   Exit signs.
         (a)   Where required.
            1.   Exits and exit access doors shall be marked by an approved
exit sign readily visible from any direction of egress travel. Access to the
exits shall be marked by readily visible exit signs in cases where the exit or
path of egress travel is not immediately visible to the occupants.
            2.   Exit sign placement shall be such that no point in an exit
access corridor is more than 100 feet (30,480 mm) or the listed distance for
the sign, whichever is less, from the nearest visible exit sign.
(IFC 1011.1)
         (b)   Illumination. Exit signs shall be internally or externally
illuminated.
(IFC 1011.2)
   (F)   Portable fire extinguisher.
      (1)   General requirements. Portable fire extinguishers shall be
selected, installed and maintained in accordance with IFC 906.2 and NFPA 10.
(IFC 906.2)
      (2)   Location. Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed in
locations in accordance with the International Fire Code.
(IFC 906.1)
      (3)   Conspicuous location. Extinguishers shall be located in conspicuous
locations where they are readily accessible and immediately available for use.
In rooms or areas in which visual obstruction cannot be completely avoided,
means shall be provided to indicate the locations of extinguishers.
(IFC 906.6)
   (G)   Flammable liquids.
      (1)   Processing and storage. Preventions, control and mitigation of
dangerous conditions related to storage, use, dispensing, mixing and handling
of flammable and combustible liquids shall be in accordance with IFC 27 and IFC
3401.1.
(IFC 3401.1)
      (2)   “No smoking” signs. Signs shall be posted in storage areas
prohibiting open flames and smoking. Signs shall comply with IFC 3403.5.
(IFC 3404.2.3.1)
      (3)   Fire control. Portable fire extinguishers with a minimum rating of
20-B:C and complying with IFC 906 shall be provided where required by the Fire
Code Official.
(IFC 3406.2.7)
(Ord. 15-048, passed 11-2-2015)
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
§ 152.020 STORAGE, HANDLING, MANUFACTURE, TRANSPORTATION, SALE OR USE.
   Storage, handling, manufacture, sale or use of flammable liquids are further
restricted by the approval of the state’s Fire Marshal, Chief of the Fire
Department of the village and the Village President and Board of Trustees and
must be approved by them and a permit issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-1) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.021 APPLIANCES USING FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall prohibit the use of any type, kind or
make of heating or lighting appliance using inflammable liquids which, after
test by him or her or by the Underwriters Laboratories of Chicago, Illinois, at
the expense of the person interested, is considered as introducing a distinct
hazard to life or property.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-2)
§ 152.022 STORAGE TANKS.
   (A)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Application for permit.
         (a)   All applications for permit under this subchapter shall state
the nature of the business of the applicant, the maximum quantity of each class
of liquid to be kept and the location of same while in storage.
         (b)   Every application for a permit for any such tank shall be in
writing, stating specifically the location, the space desired to be used, the
length, breadth and depth, together with the measurement in feet from the
surface of the ground to the top of such tank, and shall contain the plans and
specifications for the construction of said tank, its connections, fittings,
openings and safety appliances.
      (2)   Permit fees. The following are permit fees for each tank for
flammable liquids:
 
Class I and II (gasoline, naphthas and Capacity 121 - 500 gallons       $26
the like)                              Each additional 1,000 gallons or $0.90
                                       fraction thereof
                                       Capacity 121 - 551 gallons       $9
Class III and IV (fuel, oil, petroleum Capacity 551 - 1,000 gallons     $28
and the like)                          Each additional 1,000 gallons or $0.75
                                       fraction thereof
 
      (3)   Transfer and revocation of permit. No permits issued under the
terms of this subchapter shall be transferred or assigned, nor shall any right
or privilege thereunder be transferred or assigned without the written consent
of the Building Commissioner, and any such permit may be revoked by the Village
President and Board of Trustees at any time for just cause.
   (B)   Inspections, certificate of approval. No such tank or outlet shall be
covered over or used and no oil-burning equipment used until the installation,
material and workmanship have been finally inspected, approved and certified in
writing to the Building Commissioner by the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-3) (Ord. passed 5-15-1984)
§ 152.023 REGULATIONS FOR BUSINESSES WITH FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS ON THE PREMISES.
   (A)   Location of businesses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, build, construct or
maintain any public garage, gasoline filling station or any similar operation,
the storage or filling of tanks, pumps or devices used for the purpose of
storing, drawing off or discharging gasoline, oil or other volatile inflammable
liquid, within 150 feet of any building used as and for a hospital, church or
public or parochial school, measured from the nearest point of such tank or
filling or discharging device used in connection therewith, to the nearest
point of any such building.
      (2)   No retail selling or jobbers’ station shall hereafter be erected or
established within 150 feet of any lot line of property used for hospital,
church or school purposes.
   (B)   Building and premises requirements.
      (1)   Wood construction prohibited. No buildings shall hereafter be
constructed or existing building be altered of frame construction for the
storage, handling, manufacture, sale or use of flammable liquids.
      (2)   Storage rooms. Special rooms for the storage of inflammable liquids
and the handling and use of inflammable liquids shall be constructed as
follows.
         (a)   Walls, floors and ceilings shall be of eight inches of brick or
concrete or four inches of reinforced concrete.
         (b)   Door openings to other rooms or buildings shall be provided with
sills raised to form a liquid-tight space and with self-closing fire doors.
         (c)   Such rooms shall be capable of holding one and one-half times
the maximum amount of inflammable liquids allowed therein.
         (d)   Windows shall be wired glass in metallic sash and frames.
         (e)   No combustible material shall be used in construction except
floor surfacing may be of wood.
         (f)   Proper ventilation in accordance with requirements of the
National Board of Fire Underwriters shall be provided.
         (g)   There shall be no openings to rooms below, except as made
necessary by trade or manufacturing process, and openings to rooms and other
parts of the building above shall be provided with self-closing fire doors or
trap doors.
      (3)   Required exits in certain businesses. In paint and oil stores,
retail stores and jobbers’ plants containing inflammable liquids, at least two
exits shall be provided which shall be so located that the approach to one of
the same will always be away from the point of storage.
      (4)   “No Smoking” signs. The owner, occupant or lessee of any building,
room or portion of building used for the storage, sale or use of inflammable
liquids shall install and maintain signs worded “No Smoking” in such number and
location as the Chief of the Fire Department may require.
      (5)   Room for application of inflammable finishes. Finishing shops for
the application by spraying of inflammable materials shall be of fire-proof
construction or the materials shall be applied in approved spray booths
properly ventilated by exhaust fans.
      (6)   Living rooms over public garages. No living quarters or sleeping
rooms or workshop shall be permitted to be constructed or used over a public
garage as defined in this subchapter, except in case the entire building is of
fire-proof construction or equipped with sprinklers as required by the National
Board of Fire Underwriters. If any such quarters are located above the ground
floor, the stairway to the same shall communicate directly to the ground with
no opening into the vehicle room unless same is protected with an approved
self-closing fire door in a fire-proof partition.
   (C)   Equipment and appliances restricted.
      (1)   Lighting equipment. Lighting shall be by means of incandescent
electric or other approved lamps only. Movable light shall be protected by
vapor-tight globes, enclosed in approved metal cages and shall be fitted with
approved keyless sockets and portable cord. All electric switches and blocks
shall be permanently located at least four feet above the floor in stories
where vehicles containing volatile inflammable liquids are housed; provided,
however, that, switches or blocks located closer than four feet to the floor on
the effective date hereof shall not be required to be removed if, in the
judgment of the Chief of the Fire Department, such installation is safe.
      (2)   Heating equipment and methods.
         (a)   No stove or fuel burning apparatus shall be used or allowed in
any public garage or gasoline filling station.
         (b)   Heating plants, other than approved direct-fired unit heaters,
shall be separated from all spaces by walls providing fire resistance of not
less than four hours and by floors and ceilings providing fire resistance of
not less than two hours. Openings in walls, except as required for pipes and
ducts, shall be limited to one means of access which shall be through a
vestibule protected on each side with a self-closing Class A fire door.
         (c)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(2)(d) and (C)(2)(e) below,
heating shall be by means of radiation or convection from hot water, vapor or
steam heating systems of which the boilers or devices containing combustion
chambers and the fuel storage spaces shall be separated from every space as
required, in division (C)(2)(b) above.
         (d)   Gas-fired or oil-fired unit heaters, subject to the following
provisions shall be permitted.
            1.   The flame shall be protected from drafts of air and contact
with combustible materials.
            2.   Unit heaters shall be so installed that the bottom of the
heater shall not be less than eight feet above the floor. They shall be
constructed and arranged to conform to the requirements of the Recommended Good
Practice Requirements of the National Board of Fire Underwriter’s for the
Construction and Protection of Garages, NBFU Pamphlet No. 88, 1957, with
amendments to date.
            3.   Direct-fired unit heaters specifically approved for use in
garages in the List of Inspected Gas, Oil and Miscellaneous Appliances,
Underwriter’s Laboratories, Inc., November, 1961, with amendments to date,
shall be considered acceptable under the provisions of this subchapter.
         (e)   Electric unit heaters constructed and installed to conform to
the Underwriter’s Laboratories, Inc., Standard for Electric Heating
Appliances”, May 1961, with amendments to date shall be permitted.
      (3)   Electric charging apparatus. Where electric charging apparatus is
installed in a story of a public garage where vehicles containing volatile
inflammable liquids are housed, all such apparatus shall be enclosed in a
compartment constructed of wire screen of not smaller than six-gauge wire, and
not more than two-inch mesh, or otherwise protected against mechanical injury,
subject to the approval of the Chief of the Fire Department. No batteries shall
be tested in any story of a garage where vehicles containing volatile
inflammable liquids are housed, except by means of a volt meter.
      (4)   Gasoline pumps. The pumps or devices placed in public garages for
the purpose of drawing off or discharging volatile inflammable liquid, shall be
set as approved by the Chief of the Fire Department and shall be located on the
ground floor near an entrance or other well ventilated place, and be protected
against mechanical injury. The surroundings shall be kept clean and free from
oil.
      (5)   Use of flame and fire heat. No flame, fire or fire heat shall be
used in any story of a public garage where vehicles containing volatile
inflammable liquid are housed; provided, however, that, forges, emery wheels
and a flame room of incombustible or fireproof material having approved
soldering iron heaters may be used in such stories if enclosed in automatic
fire doors in openings and thoroughly ventilated to the outside.
   (D)   Waste disposal; traps or separators required. There shall be no direct
connection between any garage waste basin, sink, floor drain or waste pipe and
any house drainage or sewer system. All such drains or waste mains to sewer
system shall have intercepting grease, oil and inflammable liquid traps or
separators which will completely separate such substance from water and sewage
and allow their safe and convenient removal. Such traps shall be ventilated in
the same way as is required for tanks holding volatile inflammable liquids.
Grease, oil and the like removed from such traps or separators shall be
disposed of in a method approved by the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (E)   Safety precautions.
      (1)   Cleanliness; waste cans required; care of oily clothes. All garages
must be kept clean. Grease, oil or paint-soaked rags, waste or other
combustible materials of like character shall be kept in approved self-closing
metallic receptacles having metallic legs at least three inches high and
securely braced. One such receptacle shall be provided for each 2,500 square
feet or fractional part thereof of floor area in stories where workshops are
located or vehicles containing volatile inflammable liquids are housed. Such
receptacles shall be safely clear of all combustible surroundings and their
contents shall be safely cleared at least once each day. Oily and greasy
clothing shall be cared for in non-combustible and well vented closets, safely
located.
      (2)   Sand fire extinguishing equipment and supplies. In every public
garage there shall be, in each story in which vehicles containing volatile
inflammable liquids are housed, constantly kept and maintained, convenient
receptacles filled with fine, dry sand to be used for absorbing the waste oils
on the floor. There shall be for fire extinguishing purposes a supply of sand,
chemical extinguishers and fire axes.
   (F)   Use of volatile inflammable liquids.
      (1)   No volatile inflammable liquid shall be kept in a public garage;
except that, contained in soldering iron heaters used in rooms specified in
division (D) above and in the reservoirs of motor vehicles and in the measuring
pumps for filling. The reservoirs of motor vehicles shall be filled directly
through hose from pump of a permanent filling station connected with the main
storage tank. No transfer of volatile inflammable liquids in any public garage
shall be made with open containers. Hose for use in connection with the
permanent filling station shall be Underwriter Laboratory approved hose not
exceeding ten feet in length.
      (2)   No volatile inflammable liquid, except kerosene shall be used in a
public garage for the purpose of cleaning or for any purpose other than filling
the reservoirs of motor vehicles or the filling of soldering iron heater used
in rooms specified in division (D) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-6) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of any provision of §§
152.001 through
152.006 of this chapter, unless otherwise provided for, may be enforced
pursuant to §§
10.030 through
10.043 of this code of ordinances, and as amended from time to time, which
provides for the administrative adjudication of certain ordinance violations.
The Village Administrator may also direct the Village Prosecutor or the Village
Attorney to proceed before any court having competent jurisdiction to enforce
§§
152.001 through
152.006 of this chapter.
(Ord. 15-048, passed 11-2-2015)
CHAPTER 153: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Sidewalk construction
   
153.002   Driveways and curb cuts
   
153.003   Vacation of streets and alleys
   
153.004   Street names and house numbers
   
153.005   Building construction involving streets, sidewalks and public ways
Street Excavations
   
153.020   Permit to excavate
   
153.021   Manner of excavating
   
153.022   Area of excavation; temporary sidewalks
   
153.023   Duration of excavation
   
153.024   Restoration of street surface
   
153.025   Inspections
Soil Excavations
   
153.040   Permit or consent required
   
153.041   Permit application; fee
   
153.042   Bond requirements
   
153.043   Conditions of and restrictions on permit
   
153.044   Restoration to grade
   
153.045   Exemptions
Standards for the Construction of Utility Facilities in Rights-of-Way
   
153.060   Purpose and scope
   
153.061   Definitions
   
153.062   Annual registration required
   
153.063   Permit required; applications and fees
   
153.064   Action on permit applications
   
153.065   Effect of permit
   
153.066   Revised permit drawings
   
153.067   Insurance
   
153.068   Indemnification
   
153.069   Security
   
153.070   Permit suspension and revocation
   
153.071   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
153.072   General construction standards
   
153.073   Traffic control
   
153.074   Location of facilities
   
153.075   Construction methods and materials
   
153.076   Vegetation control
   
153.077   Removal, relocation or modifications of utility facilities
   
153.078   Clean-up and restoration
   
153.079   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
153.080   Variances
   
153.081   Enforcement
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Sidewalks required. No building permit shall be issued by the
village unless there is presented as a part of the plans and specifications, a
plot plan showing the location of sidewalks to be constructed at the time of
the construction of the building. Sidewalks must be constructed, where none
exist, by the owner along any part of said property abutting any public street.
      (2)   Deposits required. Any person making application for a building
permit shall, before said permit is issued, deposit with the Village Clerk such
sum of money as may be equal to the cost of the construction of such sidewalks,
as determined by the Village Engineer. In addition to such deposit, the
applicant shall also deposit the sum of $50 with the Village Clerk to guarantee
the removal of debris, the removal of forms and the placing of backfill and the
general cleanup of the premises upon completion of the work; provided, however,
that, no such cash deposits shall be required of applicants who have entered
into an agreement with the village for the construction of residential units in
volume and who have posted surety company bonds to guarantee the performance of
such agreements.
      (3)   Construction specifications. All sidewalks, curbs and combination
of curbs, gutters, driveways and all other exposed concrete to be hereafter
constructed in the village shall be constructed in accordance with the
following plans and specifications.
         (a)   Location. Public sidewalks shall be located eight inches outside
and parallel to property lines in all cases, except in areas zoned for
business. In business zones where buildings are placed on property lines,
sidewalks may be constructed abutting building foundation walls and shall be
six feet in width. Sidewalks of greater width than six feet shall not be
constructed without the approval of the village’s Board of Trustees.
         (b)   Subgrade. Subgrade must be free from all sod, roots, bricks,
boulders and the like. In areas where fill is required, sand or crushed stone
six inches deep shall be used, and each layer shall be thoroughly compacted
before placing such succeeding layer. Cinders, ashes or slag will not be
permitted to be used as fill material at any time.
         (c)   Forms; slab dimensions.
            1.   All forms shall be built in line and grade, mortar-tight and
of a good grade of two inches by six inches lumber or metal. The forms shall
have sufficient bracing to prevent disalignment during construction. The
surface of the forms against which concrete is to be placed shall be oiled.
Forms shall remain in place at least 24 hours after pouring.
            2.   All public sidewalk slabs to be a minimum thickness of not
less than five inches and a width of five feet four inches. Private sidewalk
stabs to have a minimum thickness of not less than four inches and a width of
two feet six inches. Driveway slabs or ribbons to have a minimum thickness of
not less than five inches. The minimum width of slabs to be eight feet six
inches and ribbons two feet and all driveways to extend a minimum of 19 feet
beyond the required front or side yard.
         (d)   Materials of construction.
            1.   Cement shall be of any recognized brand of portland cement;
sand shall be torpedo sand; stone or washed gravel not to exceed one inch in
size; stone and sand must be clean, free from silt, clay or any other foreign
substances.
            2.   All concrete used under these specifications shall be six bag
mix and shall meet the following requirements: the measurements of both fine
and coarse aggregates shall be accurately computed by either weighing or by the
use of a cubic foot gallons per bag of cement, including moisture in the
aggregates; water shall not be added at job site; water to be controlled so
that no free water is on top of slab after placing in forms; air entraining
agent to be used; percent of air entrained to be 6% (plus or minus 1%); maximum
slump: three inches; retempering of concrete not permitted.
            3.   All materials for each batch, including water, shall be mixed
not less than one and one-half minutes after all materials are in the mixer.
Mixing period shall not extend beyond one and one-half hours per batch.
         (e)   Placing concrete.
            1.   All concrete must be placed immediately after mixing and shall
be thoroughly puddled, spaded or vibrated in place in such a manner as to
remove all voids and thoroughly compact and density the mass. Placing of
concrete in forms shall be one continuous operation until one section between
expansion joints is completed.
            2.   In temperatures below 40°F, all materials must be heated, and
no concrete is to be poured when temperature is below 20°F. Poured concrete in
cold weather must be protected from freezing. Concrete shall be maintained at
temperatures of not less than 70°F for three days or 50°F for five days.
         (f)   Expansion joints.
            1.   Expansion joint material for sidewalk shall be a fibrous
material impregnated with asphalt and shall be three-eighths inch in thickness.
            2.   Expansion joints shall be installed at points wherever new
concrete comes in contact with existing structures. Expansion joints shall also
be spaced along length of walk at intervals not to exceed 40 feet on centers;
the top of the joints to be kept five-eighths inch below finished surface.
         (g)   Finishing.
            1.   Sidewalk shall be struck off to a true line and grade, with a
pitch of one-quarter inch per foot across the walk, sloping toward the parkway
or curb. Concrete to be troweled smooth and just before final set, shall be
brushed crosswise to the walk with a fine bristle brush.
            2.   Grooves three-quarters inch deep, minimum, not less than one-
eighth inch or more than one-quarter inch in width, shall be constructed at
right angles to the centerline of the sidewalk. These grooves and all edges of
the walk shall be rounded with an edging tool of one-quarter inch radius. Slabs
shall not be longer than six feet or less than four feet, unless otherwise
approved by the Village Engineer.
         (h)   Curing. All exposed concrete surfaces shall be protected from
drying and satisfactorily cured for a period of not less than seven days after
pouring; curing to be done by continuous spraying of a pigmented membrane
curing compound per village specifications.
      (4)   Curb and gutter. All previous specifications shall apply to curb or
combination curb and gutter, except:
         (a)   A cross-section sketch of curb or curb and gutter must be
submitted to the village for approval;
         (b)   Line and grade shall be determined by the Village Engineer;
         (c)   Expansion joints shall be five-eighths inch in thickness placed
on 40-foot centers, provided with smooth dowel bars three-quarters inch in
diameter, two feet in length, with expansion sleeves placed on one end of dowel
bar. The sleeve end of bar to be greased; and
         (d)   In finishing, all edges to be rounded to dimensions shown on
approved plan. Gutter to be checked with a ten-foot straight edge, with all
high or low spots to be brought to true grade. Final finish to be brushed with
a medium coarse bristle brush. Curb or curb gutter to be scored into ten-foot
sections with edging tool.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
   (B)   (1)   The village agrees to assist in the repair and improvement of
front and corner sidewalks that are deemed by the village to be defective or in
need or repair, on a cost-sharing basis with owner-occupied properties on a 50/
50 basis, to the extent funds are available. For inclusion in this program, the
property must adjoin the defective sidewalk to be repaired. This program does
not encompass the repair of vaulted sidewalks.
      (2)   The property owner(s) must apply to the village for participation
in the program and must submit proof of property ownership with the
application. All applications must be signed by the applicant(s) and notarized.
      (3)   The property owner(s) must submit an application to the Department
of Public Works. After the scope of work has been determined, cost estimates
will be prepared and a bill(s) submitted to the participating property owner
setting forth the total cost of the work to be performed and the property
owners 50% share of the cost.
      (4)   The village shall perform or have the work performed and shall
select and hire all contractors utilized to repair or replace sidewalks under
this program. Residents who hire contractors and/or otherwise have the work
performed outside of the procedures set forth in this division (B) will not be
paid and/or reimbursed by the village.
      (5)   All payments shall be submitted to the Village Clerk’s office in
the form of cash, certified or cashier’s check or money order, prior to the
commencement of any work. All perspective participants who do not timely
respond to the notice and/or submit payment shall be deemed to have declined
participation in the program.
      (6)   Work is scheduled after receipt of payment and award of the
construction contract, if applicable.
(Ord. 00-142, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 153.002 DRIVEWAYS AND CURB CUTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DRIVEWAY. A place on private property for the operation of automobiles
and other vehicles.
      DRIVEWAY APPROACH. An area between the traveled roadway of a public
street right-of- way and private property intended to provide access for
vehicles from the roadway of a public street to private property. Such APPROACH
must provide access to something definite on private property such as a
driveway and parking area or a door at least eight feet wide, intended and used
for the entrance of vehicles.
   (B)   Permit regulations.
      (1)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful to construct any curb or
driveway approach or break out or remove any curb without first securing a
permit from the village.
      (2)   Conditions of permit.
         (a)   No driveway approach shall be constructed or used so as to
impede the flow of surface water in the street gutter or a drainage ditch.
         (b)   No driveway approach to residential properties shall be
constructed or used for the sole purpose of a parking space.
         (c)   Driveway approaches to non-residential property shall not be
used for parking space if the parked vehicles protrude into the street so as to
impede the flow of traffic or extend over the sidewalk so as to interfere with
the movement of pedestrians.
         (d)   Non-driveway parkway areas may be used for parking space subject
to the following conditions.
            1.   Parked vehicles shall not protrude into the street so as to
impede the flow of traffic or extend over the sidewalk so as to interfere with
the movement of pedestrians.
            2.   The parkway area shall be paved with an approved dust-proof
surface (i.e., six- inch concrete or two-inch class M1 asphalt or equivalent).
            3.   There shall be a curb provided between the sidewalk and the
parking area located to ensure that no part of the parked cars shall extend
over the sidewalk so as to interfere with the movement of pedestrians.
      (3)   Location of driveway. No driveway approach shall interfere with
municipal or public utility facilities such as poles, traffic signals, sign
posts, catch basins, fire hydrants, crosswalks or other street structures.
Driveway approaches shall be located as to avoid parkway trees and no parkway
trees shall be removed without the approval of the Superintendent of Public
Works.
   (C)   Construction specifications. Driveway approaches shall be constructed
to the following standards.
      (1)   Surface. All driveway approaches which give access to an improved
street with curb and gutters shall be surfaced with a permanent dust-proof
surface, either concrete, bituminous concrete, asphalt, brick or other material
approved by the village.
      (2)   Widths.
         (a)   The total width of driveways measured at the property line on a
parcel of property used for residential purposes shall not exceed one-third the
lot frontage and no single driveway shall exceed 20 feet measured at the
property line.
         (b)   The total width of driveways measured at the property line on a
parcel of property used for non-residential purposes shall not exceed one-half
the lot frontage, and no single driveway approach shall exceed 30 feet measured
at the property line. The width of the driveway approach measured at the curb
shall in no case be greater than five feet more than the width measured at the
property line.
      (3)   Location of drives.
         (a)   On a parcel of property used for residential purposes, a
driveway shall not be located closer than one foot from the property line and
no driveway approach shall extend over the property line extended to the curb;
except that, the flare may extend not more than two feet beyond the property
line extended.
         (b)   On a parcel of property used for non-residential purposes, no
driveway approach shall be located within five feet of the property line or
within ten feet of any other driveway approach as measured at the property
line.
      (4)   Sidewalk grade. Where an existing sidewalk is more than 18 inches
above grade of the street as measured at the gutter line, the Superintendent of
Public Works may permit the sidewalk to be lowered across and adjacent to the
driveway approach. In lowering the walk, no steps shall be permitted and the
maximum sidewalk grade permitted shall be 10%.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.003 VACATION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Petition to vacate.
      (1)   Whenever any person shall seek to have a public street or alley
vacated, such person shall file a written petition with the President and Board
of Trustees. The petition shall contain the following information and furnish
the following documents:
         (a)   The names and addresses of all owners of property adjacent to
the street or alley sought to be vacated;
         (b)   A short statement of the reasons for the request to vacate; and
         (c)   Two contact prints of a plat of the street or alley proposed to
be vacated, said plat being certified by a registered surveyor to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by him or her and that all geodetic and
dimensional details are correct and containing an accurate legal description of
the area involving the street or alley involved in the petition, and being in
proper form for the approval of the plat. The plat should show all sewers and
all other easements present in said alley or street.
      (2)   The petition shall be referred to the Plan Commission for hearing
and recommendation.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   Conduct of hearing; notices.
         (a)   The Plan Commission shall hold hearings on the application.
Notice of the time and date of such hearing shall be given by mail no later
than five days prior to the hearing to the owners of the property adjacent to
said alley or street. Whenever the Plan Commission shall request, the attorney
for said Commission shall verify the names and addresses of all said adjacent
owners. Notice shall also be posted on the bulletin board of the Village Hall.
It shall be the responsibility of the Chairperson of the Plan Commission to see
that such notice is posted.
         (b)   The first hearing shall be held no later than 30 days following
the date the Board of Trustees determine that the application is in proper form
for referral to the Plan Commission. Any interested person may testify or
present evidence in favor of or against the vacation of said alley or street
and all testimony received shall be under oath.
      (2)   Vote. Each member of the Plan Commission attending the meeting
where a decision is made shall cast a vote on the recommendation made to the
Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Hearing costs. The applicant shall reimburse the village for the
cost of court reporter charges for transcript and time whenever the services of
a court reporter are used for such hearings. The use of a court reporter shall
be in the discretion of the Chairperson of the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Report and recommendation. It is the desire of the Board of
Trustees that the report and recommendation of the Plan Commission be returned
to the President and Board of Trustees no later than 60 days from the date said
application is forwarded to the Plan Commission, although it is recognized that
in certain exceptional cases a longer time may be necessary for the Plan
Commission to properly review and report on this matter.
   (C)   Payment for vacation. In the event a recommendation is made to vacate
said street or alley, the Plan Commission shall make a recommendation as to
whether payment of moneys should be made to the village for the vacation of
said street or alley. In the event a recommendation is made that the alley or
street be vacated without payment therefor, the Plan Commission shall set forth
the reasons for such recommendation.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 153.004 STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   Name and numbering plan. All lots, buildings and structures in the
village shall be numbered in accordance with the following plan.
      (1)   The base line for streets running east and west shall be State
Street and numbers lying east or west of this line shall be designated East
(E.), or West (W.), as the case may be. Streets running north and south shall
be a continuation of streets extending southerly from Chicago; provided that,
the number of each block shall begin with the number 100 or a multiple thereof.
      (2)   Odd numbers shall be on the south and east side of the streets;
even numbers on the north and west sides of the streets.
   (B)   Numbering required.
      (1)   It is hereby made the duty of the owners or occupants of all
buildings situated in the village to number them in the manner provided in this
section.
      (2)   The numbering of lots and parts thereof shown upon the Village
Atlas, now in the office of the Village Clerk, is hereby adopted as the
official numbering of all houses and buildings in the village occupying such
lots. Those owners or occupants whose house or building number does not comply
with the Atlas shall secure the correct building or house number from the
Village Clerk.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall furnish to each owner or occupant of a
house or building a certificate showing its proper number as it appears on said
Atlas at such times as he or she may see fit or be requested so to do. No
charge shall be made for such certificates.
   (C)   Size and placement of numbers. Each of the figures of every house
number shall be not less than three inches in length and shall be so marked as
to be distinct and easily read. Said numbers shall be placed in a conspicuous
place on the side of or above the front door of the building to which they are
attached.
   (D)   Street name signs.
      (1)   The names of all streets shall be placed and maintained upon at
least one corner of each street intersection in a manner to be directed by the
President and Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued and no building erected on any
vacant land in the village which would necessitate the installation of
additional street name signs and standards in that area by the village until an
adequate system of street name signs and standards shall be installed for and
throughout said area by the contractor or subdivider satisfactory to the
President and Board of Trustees. Said system shall be designed to conform to
village specifications. Equipment and materials used shall meet with the
approval of the Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
   (E)   Rear address numbers. New and existing homes, buildings and structures
shall have the approved building or structure address numbers, building numbers
or approved building identification placed on the rear of the home, building,
structure and/or garage, in a position to be plainly legible and visible from
the alley. These numbers and letters shall contrast with their background.
Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers and
letters shall be a minimum of three inches tall (in length) and a minimum of 14
inches wide.
(Ord. 07-400, passed 5-7-2007)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.005 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION INVOLVING STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Street occupancy during building construction.
      (1)   Street occupancy permit.
         (a)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit
or store on the roadway, parkway or sidewalk space of any street or in alley,
building materials or any fuels or other supplies for any building or structure
in course of erection, repair or alteration, unless a street occupancy permit
from the Building Commissioner is obtained prior to the act, and any person so
doing shall be subject to the general penalty of this code of ordinances.
         (b)   Application for permit; issuance. All applications for street
occupancy permits shall be made to the Building Commissioner and shall describe
the location of the roadway, parkway or sidewalk space of any street or alley
proposed to be occupied, the use to be made of same and the length of time of
such intended occupation. Should the Building Commissioner approve, he or she
shall issue a street occupancy permit to the applicant; provided, all the
provisions of this code of ordinances as to bonds, fees and all other
requisites in connection with such permit are complied with.
         (c)   Bond required.
            1.   Before the Building Commissioner shall issue a street
occupancy permit, the applicant for such permit shall file with the village on
a form to be furnished by the village, a bond in the penal sum of $5,000 with
surety to be approved by the village and conditioned to indemnify, save and
keep harmless the village from any and all loss, costs, expense or liability of
any kind whatsoever which the village may suffer or be put to, or which may be
recovered from it by reason of the issuance of such permit, or by reason of any
act or thing done, or neglected to be done, under or by virtue of the authority
given in such permit.
            2.   An annual bond may be given to cover street occupancy permits.
      (2)   Limitations on occupancy of streets.
         (a)   The permission to occupy roadway, parkway or sidewalk space of
any street or in alley for the purposes of building is intended only for
imperative use in connection with the actual erection, repair, alteration,
wrecking or removal of buildings and shall terminate with the completion of
such operation. It shall also be unlawful to occupy any such named space under
authority of the street occupancy permit for the storage of articles not
intended for immediate use in connection with the operation for which such
permit has been issued. Failure to immediately remove building or other
material from such occupied space on notice so to do from the Building
Commissioner or Chief of Police shall subject the owner or contractor so
notified to the penalty provided by this code of ordinances.
         (b)   The occupation of a street or alley for the storage of building
material, including temporary sidewalks, shall never extend out beyond the curb
line more than one-third of the way across the street pavement.
         (c)   It shall not be lawful to occupy with building material any
roadway, parkway or sidewalk space of any street or alley other than
immediately in front of the lot or land upon which the building is being
erected; provided that, if the written consent of the owners, tenants or
occupants of properties adjoining the site of any proposed building is first
obtained and filed with the Building Commissioner, the occupation of the
roadway and sidewalk may be extended in front of the property so consenting,
upon the same terms and conditions as those herein fixed for the occupation of
the street in front of the building site.
         (d)   During the progress of building operations, a sidewalk not less
than four feet in width, or an equal width of a clean, hard, paved roadway,
available and made safe for footway, shall at all times be kept open, clean and
unobstructed for the purpose and uses of a passageway in front of such lot or
lots.
         (e)   It is not intended hereby to prohibit the maintenance of a
driveway for the delivery of material across such sidewalk from the curb line
to the building site, but such driveway shall be under the supervision of the
Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Barricades and warning lights.
      (1)   Any excavations for structures to be built within six feet of any
public highway shall at all times be guarded by a substantial railing or
barricade not less than four feet high at lot line.
      (2)   Sufficient red lights shall be displayed and maintained during the
whole of every night at each excavation, pile of material, fence or any other
obstruction on any public highway, to so cast their rays that each excavation,
pile of material, fence or other obstruction shall be in full view of the
public.
      (3)   Whoever maliciously or wantonly, and without legal cause, removes,
extinguishers, diminishes or disturbs a light so placed shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Scaffolds on buildings. An outside scaffold on a building not more
than two stories in height standing on or within five feet of the street line
shall have a floor of two inch planks, and at the outer edge thereof, a closed
fence not less than three feet high, when there is no covering over the
sidewalk.
   (D)   Location of materials and structures; obstructing public ways and
appurtenances prohibited.
      (1)   (a)   Materials, fences or sheds shall not be placed within two
feet of any tree, nor within six feet of the rail of any railway, nor render
inaccessible any valve, chamber, manhole, coal chute, fire hydrant, alarm box
or catch basin.
         (b)   All gutters shall be kept free and clear at all times.
      (2)   Mortar boxes or beds shall be so placed and guarded as to protect
the clothing of persons passing and shall be promptly removed from any street,
sidewalk, alley or public way on order of the Building Commissioner or the
Chief of Police.
   (E)   Restoration of streets and sidewalks. Whenever any street, alley or
sidewalk is damaged by the erection or alteration of any building abutting
thereon by reason of the construction thereof, the same shall be restored by,
or at the expense of, the owner of the building involved or his or her
contractor, to a condition as good and serviceable as prior to the beginning of
the work.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) Penalty, see §
153.999
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 153.020 PERMIT TO EXCAVATE.
   (A)   Permit required; compliance with regulations. It shall be unlawful for
any person to make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in
the village or to tunnel under any street, alley or other public place in the
village without first having obtained a permit as is herein required, or
without complying with the provisions of this subchapter or in violation of or
at variance from the terms of any such permit.
   (B)   Application for permit. Applications for permit to excavate or tunnel
in or under the streets of the village shall be made to the Building
Commissioner and shall contain therein the location of the intended excavation
or tunnel, the size thereof, the purpose thereof, the person doing the actual
excavation work and the name of the person for whom the work is being done.
Such application shall also contain an agreement signed by the person doing the
work to be bound by and comply with the provisions of this subchapter. The
application shall be in the following form:
 
VILLAGE OF DOLTON
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO EXCAVATE
 
To:   The Building Department
Village of Dolton
 
1.   The applicant hereby applies for permission to make the following excavation within the corporate limits of Dolton.
 
Location of Opening........................................................................
Size of Opening..............................................................................
Purpose of Excavation......................................................................
Type of Pavement...........................................................................
Person Doing Excavation Work...........................................................
Person for Whom Work is Performed....................................................
 
2.   Applicant tenders herewith $300 in cash to insure the proper restoration of the ground and the laying of the pavement.
 
3.   Applicant agrees to comply with all provisions of the code and further agrees to backfill the excavation so as to leave a smooth surface without elevation or depression and
to resurface the excavation with the same type and quality of pavement so that the completed backfill shall resemble as closely as possible the original condition. Applicant
agrees to remove and haul away all excess materials derived from said excavation and backfill. Applicant agrees that protective lighting and adequate barriers will be provided if
the excavation remains open overnight and agrees that the protective devices to be furnished shall meet the approval of the Building Commissioner or his or her representative.
 
4.   Applicant has contacted the following for the proposed excavation and has requested and been furnished information about the location of underground structures in the area
of said excavation.
 
Gas............................................. date
Electricity..................................... date
Telephone..................................... date
Water.......................................... date
Sewer.......................................... date
 
Dated this                     day of                                   ,                 
 
VILLAGE OF DOLTON
 
By                                                                                        
Building Commissioner
 
   (C)   Permit fee. No permit to excavate or tunnel in or under the streets of
the village shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has paid to
the Village Clerk a fee in the amount of $300 for each such excavation or
tunnel. It is the responsibility of the applicant to restore the ground to its
proper grade elevation in accordance with the specifications and directions of
the Building Commissioner. The village will restore the pavement, if any, and
the fee as herein mentioned will be applied to the cost of materials and labor
for the restoration of the pavement.
   (D)   Bond required. No permit to excavate or tunnel in or under the streets
of the village shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
filed with the Building Commissioner a bond in the sum of $10,000 conditioned
to indemnify the village for any loss, liability or damage that may result or
accrue from or because of the making, existence or manner of guarding or
constructing any such tunnel or excavation. Such bond shall have as surety a
corporation licensed to do business in the state as a surety company.
   (E)   Exemptions from permit requirements. The provisions of this subchapter
relative to securing permits shall not apply to officers or employees of the
village engaged in doing work for the village, nor to persons or corporations
doing work for the village under contract.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1-1) (Ord. passed 6-13-1978) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.021 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground and in
excavations; the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making
of such excavations or tunnels, and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables or conduits or to the village department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables or conduits shall be disturbed. Proper care shall be taken to avoid
injury to the roots of any tree or shrub wherever possible.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1-2) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.022 AREA OF EXCAVATION; TEMPORARY SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to render more than one-half the width of any
street unavailable for travel in connection with any excavation or tunnel.
   (B)   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk
shall be constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient
for users.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1-3) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.023 DURATION OF EXCAVATION.
   Each application for a permit shall state the length of time it is estimated
will elapse from the commencement of the work until the restoration of the
surface of the ground, or until the refill is made ready for the pavement to be
put on by the village, if the village restores such surface pavement. It shall
be unlawful to fail to comply with this time limitation unless the permission
for an extension of time is granted by the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1-4) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.024 RESTORATION OF STREET SURFACE.
   (A)   Any person making any excavation or tunnel in or under any public
street, alley or other public place in the village shall restore the surface
thereof to its original condition if there is no pavement there. Refills shall
be of suitable lake sand and placed under the supervision of the Building
Commissioner and properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or
excavation shall be left in the ground.
   (B)   If the excavation or opening has necessitated an opening in a
pavement, the refill shall be properly made so that the surface pavement can be
relaid by the applicant in the same manner, thickness and character as the
surrounding pavement. Notice shall be given to the Building Commissioner when
such opening is prepared for pavement, and the pavement shall be laid under his
or her supervision. The surface relaid shall extend for one foot in every
direction beyond the original opening.
   (C)   If such work is not completed within 30 days after the opening, the
village will complete the work and deduct the costs from the deposit.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall build, construct or lay a pavement by private
contract on any public way in the village, unless he or she first shall have
made application and complied with the permitting requirements of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Before such permit is issued, the applicant shall deposit with the
village a sum sufficient to cover the estimated cost of engineering,
inspection, supervision or other services. Against such deposit, charges shall
be made by the village for such services as may be required from time to time
at such rates as will correspond to those established by the village for
similar services. Nothing in this subchapter shall be held to apply to
pavements laid by special assessment or special taxation.
      (3)   Upon the issuing of any permit authorizing the payment of any
public way by private contract, it shall be the duty of the person to whom such
permit is issued to notify the Building Commissioner of the time of the
commencement of such work. No work shall be done under such permit until
directed by the Building Commissioner.
      (4)   The public way permit and paving requirements specified in this
division (D) shall not be required of any government agency.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1-5) (Ord. 00-146, passed 6-5-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.025 INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Commissioner shall, from time to time, inspect all excavations
or tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley or other place in
the village to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
Notice shall be given to him or her at least ten hours before the work of
refilling any such excavation or tunnel commences.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1-6)
SOIL EXCAVATIONS
§ 153.040 PERMIT OR CONSENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall dig, cut or remove any sod or earth from any public
way or other public place within the village without a permit from the Board of
Trustees; or from any premises not his or her own, without the consent of the
owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to excavate or remove any sand,
soil or earth from the surface of any land within the corporate limits of the
village for the purpose of gift, sale, off-site fill or other construction
usage unless said person shall first have procured a permit for such purposes
from the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2-1) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.041 PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to remove any sand, soil or earth within the
village shall make application which shall include a drawing showing the
location and elevation to which the proposed excavation will be made in
relationship to the elevation of adjoining streets, highways, if any, and/or
adjoining improved properties. If there are adjoining improved streets and
highways within any reasonable distance, then the Village Engineer shall
determine the elevation below which no excavation shall be made.
   (B)   Upon the approval of the application for a permit, the applicant shall
pay the sum of $15 per permit for each parcel of land to be excavated to the
Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2-2)
§ 153.042 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Indemnity bond. Upon the approval of the application, the Village
Clerk shall not issue a permit until the applicant shall give a bond to the
village in the amount of $5,000 to be approved by the Village Attorney as to
form, to be conditioned that the person removing sand, soil or earth shall
conform with the ordinance, specifications, rules, regulations and conditions
prescribed by the Village Board and shall protect and save harmless the village
from any and all liability, damages and expenses which said village may sustain
by reason of granting of such permit.
   (B)   Performance bond. Where the application for permit indicates that
removal of material will be below existing grade level, or below grade fixed by
the Village Engineer in the absence of existing grades, or below the water
table leaving an excavation, then, and in that event, the applicant shall, in
addition to the indemnity bond required in division (A) above, furnish a
performance bond conditioned upon restoring the land to its former grade or to
a grade approved by the Village Engineer, and in such amount to be fixed by the
Board, which shall be not less than the estimated cost of refilling the
excavation and bringing the land back to the original grade based upon the
maximum amount of material anticipated to be removed as set forth in the
application for permit. Said performance bond shall further provide that as a
condition thereof the permittee will conform to the code of the village and any
and all regulations and conditions prescribed by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2-3)
§ 153.043 CONDITIONS OF AND RESTRICTIONS ON PERMIT.
   (A)   All persons procuring and receiving said permit shall make reasonable
provisions to prevent sand, dirt or loose earth from blowing or spilling over
and upon the premises of others or upon any public way during any excavation
operation while any sand, dirt or loose earth is being transported from the
site.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for the removal of any such soil, sand or
earth which shall be unduly detrimental to the adjoining or surrounding
properties or shall be unduly detrimental to safety, health or general welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2-4)
§ 153.044 RESTORATION TO GRADE.
   (A)   Upon completion of the operation for which a permit is granted or when
the permit therefor has expired by the passage of time or otherwise, the
permittee shall, within the time fixed by the Board of Trustees, cause said
land to be restored to existing grade or grade fixed by the Village Engineer in
absence of existing grade.
   (B)   Such excavation shall be filled with dirt or such other materials as
shall be approved by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2-5)
§ 153.045 EXEMPTIONS.
   The foregoing shall not apply to work necessary for the erection or
alteration of a building or structure pursuant to a valid building permit
issued by the Building Commissioner; provided that, such person shall
diligently and without unnecessary or unreasonable delay prosecute said
improvement work to completion.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2-6)
STANDARDS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY
FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 153.060 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the villages
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this subchapter, the village intends to exercise
its authority over the rights-of-way in the village and, in particular, the use
of the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards
to address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without
limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased storm water run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the village’s residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this subchapter. This subchapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-
way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this subchapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses or similar agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this subchapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this subchapter and the provisions of
any franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This subchapter supersedes all chapters
or parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
subchapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this subchapter
to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or
regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this subchapter and may vary the standards,
conditions and requirements expressed in this subchapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term not
defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 III. Adm.
Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this subchapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds and on
the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Municipal Code of the Village of Dolton.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this subchapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The Village of Dolton Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within rights-of-way under this subchapter. For
purposes of this subchapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village.
   FREE-STANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
village’s Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works to pose an unreasonable
and imminent risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to
the ecological balance of the environment, including, but not limited to,
explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the state’s Cable and
Video Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
153.063 and
153.064 of this chapter.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal-slurry.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radically against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the village.
If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and
other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in
the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. The part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly-owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. The amount of security required pursuant to §
153.069 of this chapter.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS. The village’s Superintendent of Public Works
or his or her designee.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. “Private line” means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the
Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1500 and following), as now
or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail, as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this subchapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in § 21-201(v) of the state’s Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 5/21-201(v).
   VILLAGE. The Village of Dolton.
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.062 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies rights-of-way within the village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works,
providing the utility’s name, address and regular business telephone and
telecopy numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf
of the utility in connection with emergencies involving the utility’s
facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such
person, and evidence of insurance as required in §
153.067 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.063 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct (as defined in this
subchapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within
any village right-of-way which changes the location of the facility, adds a new
facility, disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this subchapter) or
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way, without first
filing an application with the village’s Engineer or and obtaining a permit
from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this subchapter. No
permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of the
right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
subchapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed
in such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant
may designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         (a)   A written traffic-control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed.
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
153.067 of this chapter;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
153.069 of this chapter;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see §
153.080 of this chapter); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific utility that
is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any “certificate of public
convenience and necessity” or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
state’s Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the state’s Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District (other local or state entities with jurisdiction), have been
satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this subchapter
shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $1,200. No application fee is
required to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity
Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, being 35 ILCS 645/5-1 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.064 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Village review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Village
Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works within a reasonable time after
filing. If the application does not conform to the requirements of applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the village’s Engineer or
Superintendent of Public Works shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the Village Engineer or Superintendent of
Public Works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements
of this subchapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and
regulations, the Village Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works shall issue
a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the
duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works, that the construction proposed
under the application shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Additional village review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the village that it intends to
commence work governed by this subchapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans, specifications
and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the
facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work requiring no
excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of work
requiring excavation. The Village Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works
shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be
placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Village Engineer or Superintendent of Public
Works fails to provide such specification of location to the telecommunications
retailer within either ten days after service of notice to the village by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or 25 days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this subchapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
153.063 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   Additional village review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, being 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended, shall be deemed granted 45 days after submission to the
village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village; provided, the holder has
complied with applicable village codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.065 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this subchapter on village rights-of-way, and
does not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge
upon the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this subchapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required.
      (1)   No construction shall begin pursuant to a permit issued under this
subchapter prior to attendance by the permittee and all major contractors and
subcontractors who will perform any work under the permit at a pre-construction
meeting.
      (2)   The pre-construction meeting shall be held at a date, time and
place designated by the village with such village representatives in attendance
as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall be for the purpose of
reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing special considerations
necessary in the areas where work will occur, including, without limitation,
presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area and their
locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of rights-of-
way by the public during construction and access and egress by adjacent
property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.066 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this subchapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance, with §
153.080 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.067 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the village, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents, and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) and (A)(1)(b) below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
“X”, “C” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any
one accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
“It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled, nor
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the Village of Dolton, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the Village of Dolton President of
such intent to cancel or not to renew.”
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in
no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) above, or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) above,
such as evidence that the utility is a “private self insurer” under the
Worker’s Compensation Act, being 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq. as now or hereafter
amended.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self- insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state. All insurance
carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-” or better and of a class
size “X” or higher by AM Best.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.068 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this subchapter or by a franchise, license or similar agreement;
provided, however, that, the utility’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall
not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or
expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach
of this subchapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents
or representatives.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.069 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this subchapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
subchapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this subchapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this subchapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this subchapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this division (B) shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Engineer or Superintendent of Public
Works, and may also include reasonable, directly related costs that the village
estimates are likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such
restoration. Where the construction of facilities proposed under the permit
will be performed in phases in multiple locations in the village, with each
phase consisting of construction of facilities in one location or a related
group of locations, and where construction in another phase will not be
undertaken prior to substantial completion of restoration in the previous phase
or phases, the Village Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works may, in the
exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of
security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under the
permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased construction shall be equal
to the greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions of
this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The village, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division (D), may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund, provided that
the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the 14-day
notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this subchapter that the
village determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the
Security Fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
village that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the
permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in division
(C) above.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village; provided that, any
such withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance
required in division (C) above.
   (G)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
subchapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the
permit, the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall
become the property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any
reasonable costs, loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said
revocation; provided that, any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage
shall be refunded to the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this subchapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.070 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this subchapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this subchapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and
the alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such
removal to the village within ten days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
      (2)   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this division (C).
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A)
above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply.
      (1)   If the permittee fails to comply with the provisions of division
(C) above, the village or its designee may, at the option of the village:
         (a)   Correct the deficiencies;
         (b)   Upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   After not less than 30 days’ notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the village.
      (2)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the village for all
costs of removal.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.071 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change.
      (1)   A utility shall notify the village no less than 30 days prior to
the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way or change in
identity of the utility.
      (2)   The new owner of the utility or the facility shall have all the
obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former owner under the permit, if
any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, including this
subchapter, with respect to the work and facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village’s right-
of-way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.072 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic-Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code §§ 522 et seq.);
      (7)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
subchapter, the Village Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works shall
determine, in the exercise of sound engineering judgment, which principles
apply and such decision shall be final. If requested, the Village Engineer or
Superintendent of Public Works shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.073 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control
Devices and this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that, in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
153.078 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the village.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.074 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this section.
      (1)   No interference with village facilities. No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the Village Engineer or Superintendent of
Public Works determines that the proposed location will require the relocation
or displacement of any of the village’s utility facilities or will otherwise
interfere with the operation or maintenance of any of the village’s utility
facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right- of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right-of- way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      (3)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled, Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines (83 III.
Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989)).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Free-standing facilities.
      (1)   The village may restrict the location and size of any free-standing
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The village may require any free-standing facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.075 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the village’s
Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits
for boring or jacking shall be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of
boring or jacking operations and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or
jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly
marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of § 603 of IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Village Engineer or Superintendent of Public
Works.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Ch. 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works, the utility, at its
expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the
installed facility, place and properly compact new backfill material and
restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as
determined by the Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth (in this division (A)(4))
is permitted under §
153.080 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply.
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
            1.   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
            2.   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                        Minimum Cover
Communication cable or video service    18 to 24 in. (0.6 m, as determined by
lines                                   village)
Electric lines                          30 in. (0.8 m)
Gas or petroleum products               30 in. (0.8 m)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                    protection
Water line                              Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                        protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the state’s Commerce Commission) entitled Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing; provided that,
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
               a.   The crossing is installed by the use of “moles”, “whip
augers” or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation; or
               b.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles”, “whip augers” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a village-
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192,
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 C.F.R. part 192), IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.
      (6)   Ground-mounted appurtenances. Ground-mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works.
With the approval of the Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works, shrubbery
surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free area. The
housing for ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to
blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the
state’s Commerce Commission or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Village Engineer or
Superintendent of Public Works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe,
conduit, wire, poles, cross-arms or other materials shall be distributed along
the right-of-way prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize
hazards to the public or an obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to
the right-of-way and other property. If material is to be stored on right-of-
way, prior approval must be obtained from the village.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Engineer or Superintendent
of Public Works when emergency work is required to restore vital utility
services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of
construction are 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence
and location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the
rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make
its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying
possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the
village or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its
underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in
accordance with the state’s Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220
ILCS 50/1 et seq.)
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.076 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities; compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities; tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable state laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this subchapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works that such spraying is the
only practicable method of vegetation control.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.077 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any
village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon,
the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this subchapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the Village Engineer or
Superintendent of Public Works determines that such removal will be in the best
interest of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the
village does not direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it,
by giving notice of abandonment to the village, the abandoning utility shall be
deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the
facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.078 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration
of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made
using materials and methods approved by the Village Engineer or Superintendent
of Public Works. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of
backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding or any other requirement to
restore the right-of- way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which
existed prior to the commencement of the project. The time period provided in
this section may be extended by the Village Engineer or Superintendent of
Public Works for good cause shown.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.079 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Village Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works or his or her duly
authorized agent of the emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have
been taken for protection of the traveling public and what will be required to
make the necessary repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to
interfere with the free movement of traffic, the village police shall be
notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.080 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this subchapter must do so in writing to the Village
Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works as a part of the permit application.
The request shall identify each provision of this subchapter from which a
variance is requested and the reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Village Engineer or Superintendent
of Public Works shall decide whether a variance is authorized for each
provision of this subchapter identified in the variance request on an
individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Village Engineer or
Superintendent of Public Works may authorize a variance only if the utility
requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Village Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works
may require the utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards
and conditions that may or may not be expressly contained within this
subchapter, but which carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Village
Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works under the provisions of this
subchapter shall have the right to appeal to the Village Board, or such other
board or commission as it may designate. The application for appeal shall be
submitted in writing to the Village Clerk within 30 days after the date of such
order, requirement, decision or determination. The Village Board shall commence
its consideration of the appeal at the Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting
occurring at least seven days after the filing of the appeal. The Village Board
shall timely decide the appeal.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.081 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person in violation of any provision of §
153.004(B) of this chapter shall be personally subject to a fine of not less
than $50, but not to exceed $100, for each ordinance violation, plus court
costs and reasonable attorney fees. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Any person or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of, any of the
provisions of §§
153.020 through
153.025 of this chapter shall, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
be fined according to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1-7)
   (D)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of §§
153.060 through
153.081 of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance with the penalty
provisions of this code of ordinances. There may be times when the village will
incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility
will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and §§
153.060 through
153.081 of this chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of
the cost of undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall
bear the village’s costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining,
modifying, relocating or removing the facility that is the subject of the
permit. No other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a
permit related cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon
a utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 07-400, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 07-423, passed 11-5-2007)
CHAPTER 154: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
154.001   Permits required
   
154.002   Trimming trees and shrubs
   
154.003   Protection of trees and shrubs
   
154.004   Restricted and prohibited acts and conditions
   
154.005   Location of shrubs and bushes
 
   
154.999   Penalty
§ 154.001 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Planting. It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or shrub in any
public street or parkway or other public place without having first secured a
permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Building
Commissioner who shall be authorized to issue such permits. All trees and
shrubs so planted shall be placed subject to the directions of the Building
Commissioner.
   (B)   Removals. It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub
in any street, parkway or other public place without having first secured a
permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village
Clerk who shall have authority to issue permits therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.002 TRIMMING TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Overhanging trees and shrubs.
      (1)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other
public place in the village in such a way as to impede or interfere with
traffic or travel, or obstruct the view on such public place shall be trimmed
by the owner of the abutting premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that
the obstruction shall cease.
      (2)   If, after ten days’ notice by registered mail, the owner fails to
remove the obstruction or hazardous limbs, the Building Commissioner is
authorized hereby to take such steps as are necessary to ensure elimination of
the obstruction or hazard to public safety and to bill the property owner for
the expense incurred thereby.
   (B)   Traffic interference. When any existing shrub, bush or planting
obstructs vision at an intersection or driveway and constitutes a hazard to
pedestrians or automobiles, it shall be either trimmed and kept trimmed so as
to permit vision and eliminate the hazard or be removed.
   (C)   Duty of franchisee. Any person or company given the right to maintain
poles and wires in the streets, alleys or other public places in the village
shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject,
keep such wires and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such
places so far as may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs
properly trimmed and subject to the supervision of the Building Commissioner so
that no injury shall be done to the poles or wires or shrubs and trees by
contact.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.003 PROTECTION OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Building construction. During the period in which the erection or
repair of any building is being made, the owner thereof shall place such guards
around all nearby trees standing within the lines of any street, parkway or
other public place as shall effectively prevent injury to such trees.
   (B)   Excavations. In making excavations in streets or other public places,
proper care shall be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub
wherever possible.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.004 RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Injury to trees and shrubs. It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or
shrub planted in any public place.
   (B)   Attachment of advertisements and notices. It shall be unlawful to
attach any sign, address plate, advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub in
any street, parkway or other public place.
   (C)   Attachment of wires or rope. It shall be unlawful to attach any wire
or other rope to any tree on public property without permission of the
President and Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Interference with air space. No person shall, without the written
permission of the Building Commissioner, place or maintain upon the grounds
within the lines of any street, parkway or other public place within the
village, stone, cement or other substance which shall impede the free passage
of air to the roots of any tree located within the lines of such street,
parkway or other public place, without leaving an open space of ground outside
of the trunk of such tree in area not less than four feet square.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.005 LOCATION OF SHRUBS AND BUSHES.
   No shrub, bush or other planting, except trees, shall be allowed in the
public easement or within 16 feet of the curb line if there is no easement.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined in
accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6)
CHAPTER 155: SURFACE DRAINAGE AREAS
Section
   
155.001   Definition of areas
   
155.002   Prohibited condition; flow obstruction
   
155.003   Grade, elevation and width disputes
   
155.004   Drainage of improved areas required
 
   
155.999   Penalty
§ 155.001 DEFINITION OF AREAS.
   All rear lot utility easements are hereby declared to be surface drainage
areas.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-1)
§ 155.002 PROHIBITED CONDITION; FLOW OBSTRUCTION.
   No person may obstruct or otherwise impede the flow of surface drainage
water on any lot or parcel of land in the village by altering the grade thereof
or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-2) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.003 GRADE, ELEVATION AND WIDTH DISPUTES.
   In cases of dispute or disagreement as to proper grade, elevation or width
of a surface drainage area, the grade thereof and width thereof, as established
by the Village Engineer acting jointly with the Building Commissioner and the
Committee on Building, shall be controlling, and any obstruction or other
impediment to the free flow of water shall forthwith be removed by the owner of
the property involved; otherwise, the same may be removed by the village at the
owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-3)
§ 155.004 DRAINAGE OF IMPROVED AREAS REQUIRED.
   Any surfaced area, including, without limitations, parking lots, used car
lots and other sales lots, which is improved by paving or other impervious
surface shall be so graded and drained that no water shall flow on adjacent
property. A plan shall be submitted to the Building Commissioner and approved
by him or her before work is begun. The property shall contain its own adequate
system.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-4) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall willfully obstruct or impede the flow of surface
drainage by altering the grade thereof or otherwise, or who shall permit any
impediment or obstruction to such free flow of surface drainage to remain in
existence after order and direction to remove same by proper village officials
shall be penalized in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. A separate offense shall be deemed to have
been committed on each day that such obstruction or impediment is permitted to
remain.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-5)
CHAPTER 156: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
156.001   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 156.001 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village’s flood damage prevention provisions, and any amendments
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out
in full.
(Ord. 08-438, passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 157: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Purpose
   
157.002   Interpretation
   
157.003   Scope of regulations
   
157.004   Rules of construction; definitions
   
157.005   Suitability of land for subdivision
   
157.006   Conveyance of public lands to village
   
157.007   Subdivision of large and small tracts
   
157.008   Variances
Plats and Procedures
   
157.020   Pre-application provisions
   
157.021   Preliminary plat
   
157.022   Final plat
Design Standards
   
157.035   Street plan
   
157.036   Streets
   
157.037   Alleys
   
157.038   Easements
   
157.039   Blocks
   
157.040   Lots
   
157.041   Building setback lines
   
157.042   Parks, schools and public areas
   
157.043   Natural features
   
157.044   Compliance with Official Plan
Improvements
   
157.055   Improvements required
   
157.056   Required land improvements
   
157.057   Prerequisites to construction of improvements
   
157.058   Guarantee of improvements
   
157.059   Inspections; costs to subdivider
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To ensure sound, harmonious subdivision development and community
growth, and to safeguard the interests of the homeowner, the subdivides the
investor and the village;
   (B)   To provide permanent assets to the locality and to the village;
   (C)   To prevent scattered development beyond existing public utilities and
prevent excessive development cost;
   (D)   To assure the development of land for the highest possible use with
all the necessary protection against deterioration and obsolescence; and
   (E)   To provide common grounds of understanding and a sound working
relationship between the village and the developer.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 157.002 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements.
   (B)   Conflicting laws. Where the conditions imposed by any provision of
this chapter upon the use of land are either more restrictive or less
restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of this
chapter or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any
kind, the regulations which are more restrictive, or which impose higher
standards or requirements, shall govern.
   (C)   Existing agreements. This chapter is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant or any other private agreement; provided that, where the
regulations of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than such easements, covenants or other private agreement, then
the requirements of this chapter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)
§ 157.003 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall subdivide any tract of land which is located within
the village or in any unincorporated area which is located entirely or in part
within one and one-half miles of the nearest limits of the village, except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The subdivision plans and plats, proposed improvements to be
installed, and all procedures relating thereto, shall in all respects be in
full compliance with the regulations herein.
      (2)   Wherever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out within
the village, the subdivider thereof or his or her agent, shall submit a
preliminary and a final subdivision plat to the Plan Commission. Said plats and
plans of proposed improvements, and all procedures relating thereto, shall in
all respects be in full compliance with these regulations. Until plats and
plans for the subdivision are approved:
         (a)   No land shall be subdivided, nor any street laid out, nor any
improvements made to the natural land;
         (b)   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale, nor shall any sale, contract for sale or option be made or
given; and
         (c)   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, storm water
drainage, sanitary sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service or
lighting, grading, paving or surfacing of streets shall hereafter be made by
any owner or owners or his, her or their agent, or by any public service
corporation at the request of such owner or owners or his, her or their agent.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply equally to all plats of resubdivision.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 157.004 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Generally. In the construction of this chapter, the rules and
definitions contained in this section shall be observed and applied, except
when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      (2)   Rules of word construction.
         (a)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and
words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the
plural the singular.
         (b)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
         (c)   The word “may” is permissive.
         (d)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot”, “piece” and
“parcel”.
         (e)   The phrase “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for”,
“designed for”, “intended for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for”.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way primarily for vehicular traffic along the
side or in the rear of properties, which affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting properties.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bulkhead lines or
shorelines of waterways, or corporate boundary lines of the village.
      BUILDING. Any structure designed, built or intended for the shelter,
enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels or movable property of
any kind.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land, so
designated on the plats of the proposed subdivision, between which and the
adjacent boundary of the street upon which the lot abuts, the erection of a
building is prohibited.
      COMMISSION. Whenever the words “Commission”, “Plan Commission” or
“Village Plan Commission” are used in this chapter, they shall mean the Plan
Commission of the village.
      CROSSWALK. A public right-of-way of land located across a block to
provide pedestrian access to adjacent streets or areas.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street having one open end and being permanently
terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by
the general public, a corporation or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
transfer of ownership or for building development.
      PARKWAY. A route intended to be used primarily by passenger vehicles
which may have a varying width of right-of-way and which right-of-way is or is
intended to be developed with a park-like character.
      PLAT. A plan, map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plan of the
subdivision is presented and which he or she submits for approval and intends
to record in final form.
      PLAT, FINAL. The drawings and documents presented for final approval and
as described in §
157.022 of this chapter.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The drawings and documents presented for conditional
approval and as described in §
157.021 of this chapter.
      ROADWAY. The paved area for vehicular traffic existing on a street right-
of-way and not the street right-of-way width.
      STREET. An area which primarily serves or is intended to serve as a
vehicular and pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets. The word
STREET refers to the width of the street right-of- way or easement, whether
public or private, and shall not be considered as the width of the roadway or
paving or other improvement on the street right-of-way.
      STREET, ACCEPTED PUBLIC. Any street duly accepted for maintenance by the
Village Board.
      STREET, APPROVED. Any street, whether public or private, meeting
standards and specifications of the village.
      STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which is used to carry traffic from minor
streets to primary and secondary streets.
      STREET, MAJOR. See STREET, PRIMARY.
      STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS. A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to
primary streets and expressways, and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection to local traffic from fast, through-moving traffic on
the primary streets and expressways.
      STREET, MINOR. A street intended primarily as access to abutting
properties.
      STREET, PRIMARY. A street of considerable continuity which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic artery between the various sections of the
Dolton area, as shown on the general development plan.
      STREET, PRIVATE. Any street which is under the jurisdiction of an
individual, corporation or trustee, or any street which is privately owned or
established.
      STREET, PUBLIC. All primary, secondary, collector and minor streets which
are shown on the subdivision plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
      STREET, SECONDARY. A street which carries traffic from minor and
collector streets to the primary street system, and designated as secondary
streets on the general development plan.
      SUBDIVIDER. The person or persons responsible for preparing and recording
the plats of the subdivision and for carrying out all appropriate requirements
outlined in this chapter.
      SUBDIVISION. 
         (a)   Either:
            1.   The division of land into two or more lots, sites or parcels
for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development;
            2.   Establishment or dedication of a public or private road,
expressway, street or alley through a tract of land;
            3.   Resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots,
sites or parcels; or
            4.   Any multiple-family, commercial, business, planned business
center or industrial zoning district amendment of the zoning map of the village
after the effective date hereof, shall be considered as a “planned development”
and shall be deemed a SUBDIVISION for the purpose of these regulations
regardless of whether the land is divided into parcels for separate sale or is
developed on a lease basis, and said SUBDIVISION shall be subject to the
improvement and design requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Any sale or contract of sale or agreement to purchase any lot or
division of land, either by lot description or by metes and bounds as defined
in the preceding portion of this definition, shall constitute a subdivision of
land and require, prior to any sale or contract of sale or agreement to
purchase and before the delivery of a deed, the submission of a plat to the
Plan Commission as required by law; provided, however, that, this shall not
apply to land in subdivisions previously recorded, to sales of land used or to
be used for orchards, forestry or the raising of crops, upon certification by
the Commission, or to the sale or exchange of small parcels of land to or
between adjoining property owners, where such sale or exchange does not create
additional lots, or upon certification which must be granted by the Commission.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Dolton, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4)
§ 157.005 SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVISION.
   No plat will be approved for a subdivision which is subject to periodic
flooding or which contains poor drainage facilities and which would make
adequate drainage of the lots and streets impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the
Village Engineer, make the area completely safe for residential occupancy and
provide adequate lot and street drainage, the preliminary plat of the
subdivision may be approved.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5)
§ 157.006 CONVEYANCE OF PUBLIC LANDS TO VILLAGE.
   All lands offered to the village for use as streets, highways, alleys,
schools, parks, playgrounds and other public uses shall be referred to the Plan
Commission for review and recommendation before being accepted by the village’s
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-6)
§ 157.007 SUBDIVISION OF LARGE AND SMALL TRACTS.
   (A)   (1)   Where a tract of land proposed for subdivision is part of a
larger, logical subdivision unit in relation to the village as a whole, the
Plan Commission may, before approval, cause to be prepared a plan for the
entire area or neighborhood; such plan to be used by the Plan Commission as an
aid in judging the proposed plat.
      (2)   The Village Engineer shall cooperate with the Plan Commission in
the preparation of this plan and shall furnish such surveys and data as may be
necessary.
   (B)   Whenever an area is subdivided into lots of 20,000 square feet or more
and there are indications that such lots will eventually be resubdivided into
smaller building lots, consideration shall be given to the street and lot
arrangement of the original subdivision so that additional minor streets can be
located which will permit a logical arrangement of smaller lots.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-7)
§ 157.008 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Hardship. Where the Plan Commission finds that extraordinary hardships
may result from strict compliance with these regulations, it may vary the
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured; provided that, such variation will not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of the general development plan or these regulations.
   (B)   Large scale development. The standards and requirements of these
regulations may be modified by the Plan Commission in the case of a plan and
program for a complete community or a neighborhood unit which, in the judgment
of the Plan Commission, provide adequate public spaces and improvements for the
circulation, recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully
developed and populated and which also provide such covenants or other legal
provisions as will assure conformity to and achievement of the plan.
   (C)   Conditions of variance. In granting variances and modifications, the
Plan Commission may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied and
modified.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-8)
PLATS AND PROCEDURES
§ 157.020 PRE-APPLICATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Pre-application procedure.
      (1)   (a)   Previous to the filing of an application for conditional
approval of the preliminary plat (general or preliminary subdivision plan), the
subdivider shall submit to the Plan Commission, plans and data as specified in
division (B) below.
         (b)   This step does not require formal application, fee or filing of
plat with the Plan Commission.
      (2)   (a)   Within 30 days, the Plan Commission shall inform the
subdivider that the plans and data as submitted or as modified do not meet the
objectives of these regulations.
         (b)   When the Plan Commission finds the plans and data do not meet
the objectives of these regulations, it shall express its reasons therefor.
   (B)   Pre-application plans and data.
      (1)   General subdivision information.
         (a)   General subdivision information shall describe or outline the
existing conditions of the site and the proposed development as necessary to
supplement the drawings required below.
         (b)   This information may include data on existing covenants, land
characteristics and available community facilities and utilities; and
information describing the subdivision proposal such as number of residential
lots, typical lot width and depth, price range, business areas, school,
playground, park areas and other public areas, proposed protective covenants
and proposed utilities and street improvements.
      (2)   Location map. Location map shall show the relationship of the
proposed subdivision to existing nearby community facilities, such as public
transportation lines, shopping centers, elementary and high schools, parks and
playgrounds, other community features such as railroad stations and churches.
      (3)   Sketch plan.
         (a)   Sketch plan on topographic survey shall show in simple sketch
form the proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in relation to
existing conditions.
         (b)   The sketch plan may be a freehand pencil sketch made directly on
a print of the topographic survey.
         (c)   The sketch plan shall include the existing topographic data
listed in §
157.021(E) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1)
§ 157.021 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Preparation of preliminary plat. On reaching conclusions, informally
as recommended in §
157.020 of this chapter, regarding his or her general program and objectives,
the subdivider shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat, together with
improvement plans and other supplementary material as specified in division (E)
below.
   (B)   Submission of preliminary plat. Four copies of the preliminary plat
and supplementary material specified shall be submitted to the Plan Commission
with written application for conditional approval at least ten days prior to
the meeting at which it is to be considered.
   (C)   Action on preliminary plat.
      (1)   (a)   The Plan Commission shall approve or disapprove the
application for preliminary approval within 90 days from the date of the
application or the filing by the applicant of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever date is later, unless such time is extended by
mutual consent.
         (b)   If such plat is disapproved, then within said 90 days the Plan
Commission shall furnish to applicant in writing a statement setting forth the
reason for disapproval and specifying with particularity the aspects in which
the proposed plat fails to conform to the ordinances, including official map.
         (c)   If such plat is approved, the corporate authorities shall accept
or reject said plat within 30 days after its next stated meeting following the
action of the Plan Commission.
         (d)   Preliminary approval shall not qualify a plat for recording.
      (2)   The action of the Plan Commission shall be noted on two copies of
the preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider and the other retained by the Plan
Commission.
      (3)   Conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute
approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression of
approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plat as a guide to the
preparation of the final plat which will be submitted for approval of the Plan
Commission and for recording upon fulfillment of the requirements of these
regulations and the conditions of the conditional approval, if any.
   (D)   Fees.
      (1)   At the time of filing an application for conditional approval of
the preliminary plat, the application shall be accompanied by a certified check
or money order payable to the village in the amount of $250 to cover the cost
of checking and verifying the proposed plat.
      (2)   Upon the acceptance of the application by the Plan Commission, the
Secretary shall surrender the check or money order to the Village Treasurer for
deposit in the General Fund of the village.
   (E)   Plats and data for conditional approval.
      (1)   Topographic data. Topographic data required as a basis for the
preliminary plat in division (E)(2) below shall include existing conditions as
follows, except when otherwise specified by the Plan Commission:
         (a)   Boundary lines: bearings and distances;
         (b)   Easements: location, width and purpose;
         (c)   Streets on and adjacent to the tract: name and right-of-way
width and location; type, width and elevation of surfacing; any legally
established centerline elevations; walks, curbs, gutters, culverts and the
like;
         (d)   Utilities on and adjacent to the tract: location, size and
invert elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers; location and size of
water mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone poles
and street lights; if water mains and sewers are not on or adjacent to the
tract, indicate the direction and distance to, and size of nearest ones,
showing invert elevation of sewers;
         (e)   Ground elevations on the tract, based on the village datum
plane: for land that slopes less than 0.5%, show one-foot contours; for land
that slopes 0.5% to 2%, show two-foot contours; and for land that slopes more
than 2%, show five-foot contours;
         (f)   Subsurface conditions on the tract, if required by the Plan
Commission: location and results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil,
rock and ground water conditions; depth to ground water unless test pits are
dry at a depth of five feet; location and results of soil percolation tests if
individual sewage disposal systems are proposed;
         (g)   Other conditions on the tract: watercourses, marshes, rock
outcrop, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot or more in diameter,
houses, barns, shacks and other significant features;
         (h)   Other conditions on adjacent land: approximate direction and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls;
character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other
nearby non-residential land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent
unplatted land; for adjacent platted land refer to subdivision plat by name,
recording date and number, and show approximate percent build-up, typical lot
size and dwelling type;
         (i)   Photographs, if required by the Plan Commission: camera
locations, directions of views and key numbers;
         (j)   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract;
         (k)   Proposed public improvements: highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the tract;
         (l)   Key plan showing location of the tract; and
         (m)   Title and certificates: present tract designation according to
official records in offices of the County Recorder; title under which proposed
subdivision is to be recorded, with names and addresses of owners, notation
stating acreage, scale, north arrow, datum, bench marks, certification of
registered civil engineer or surveyor, date of survey.
      (2)   Preliminary plat. Preliminary plat (general or preliminary
subdivision plan) shall be at a scale of 100 feet to one inch, or 200 feet to
one inch if the area of the subdivision is more than 200 acres. It shall show
all existing conditions required above in division (E)(1) above, topographic
data, and show all proposals including the following:
         (a)   Streets: names, right-of-way and roadway widths, approximate
grades and gradients, similar data for alleys, if any;
         (b)   Other rights-of-way or easements: location, width and purpose;
         (c)   Location of utilities, including proposed location of sewers and
storm drains;
         (d)   Proposed method of sewage and waste disposal;
         (e)   Lot lines, lot dimensions, lot numbers and block numbers;
         (f)   Sites, if any, to be reserved or dedicated for schools, parks,
playgrounds or other public uses;
         (g)   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, industry or other non-public uses exclusive of single-family
dwellings;
         (h)   Proposed building setback lines;
         (i)   Site data, including number of residential lots, typical lot
size and acres in parks and the like;
         (j)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
         (k)   Location by section, township and range;
         (l)   Name and address of the developer;
         (m)   Name and address of the planner; and
         (n)   Title, scale, north point and date.
      (3)   Other profiles and preliminary plans.
         (a)   When required by the Plan Commission, the preliminary plat shall
be accompanied by profiles showing existing ground surface and proposed street
grades, including extensions for a reasonable distance beyond the limits of the
proposed subdivision; typical cross-sections of the proposed grading, roadway
and sidewalk; and preliminary plan of proposed sanitary and storm water sewer
with grades and sizes indicated.
         (b)   All elevations shall be based on the village datum plane.
      (4)   Draft of protective covenants. Draft of protective covenants,
whereby the subdivider proposes to regulate land use in the subdivision and
otherwise protect the proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2)
§ 157.022 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   General requirements. The final plat shall conform substantially to
the preliminary plat as approved and, if desired by the subdivider, it may
constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which he or she
proposed to record and develop at the time; provided, however, that, such
portion conforms to all requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   Submission of final plat; time limit.
      (1)   Application for approval of the final plat shall be submitted in
writing to the Plan Commission at least ten days prior to the meeting at which
it is to be considered.
      (2)   (a)   Four copies of the final plat and other exhibits required for
approval shall be prepared as specified in division (H) below and shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission within one year after approval of the
preliminary plat; otherwise, such approval shall become null and void unless an
extension of time is applied for and granted by the Plan Commission.
         (b)   The applicant may elect to have final approval of a geographic
part or parts of the plat that received preliminary approval, and may delay
application for approval of other parts until a later date or dates beyond one
year with the approval of the corporate authorities; provided, all facilities
required to serve the part or parts for which final approval is sought have
been provided. In such case, only such part or parts of the plat as have
received final approval shall be recorded.
   (C)   Certificate and guarantee of improvements. The final plat submitted to
the Plan Commission for approval shall be accompanied by a notice from the
village’s Board of Trustees stating that there has been filed with and approved
by that Board, one of the following:
      (1)   A certificate by the Village Engineer that all improvements and
installations to the subdivision required for his or her approval have been
made or installed in accordance with the specifications; or
      (2)   A bond which shall:
         (a)   Run to the Village President and Board of Trustees;
         (b)   Be in an amount determined by the President and Board of
Trustees to be sufficient in amount to complete the improvements and
installations in compliance with this chapter;
         (c)   Be with surety by a company licensed to do business in the
state; and
         (d)   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
   (D)   Action by Plan Commission.
      (1)   Within 60 days after application for approval of the final plat,
the Plan Commission shall approve or disapprove it.
      (2)   If the Plan Commission approves, it shall affix its seal upon the
plat together with the certifying signature of its president.
      (3)   If it disapproves, it shall set forth its reasons in its own
records and provide the applicant with a copy.
   (E)   Action by Board of Trustees.
      (1)   After approval of the final plat by the Plan Commission and the
fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations, one tracing of the final
plat of the subdivision, drawn in ink on tracing cloth not to exceed 29 inches
by 34 inches in size, shall be submitted to the Village Board for approval.
      (2)   Action must be taken by the Village Board within a reasonable time
after the final plat has been submitted for approval.
   (F)   Certification of plats. When the Village Board shall, upon motion and
majority vote, approve the final plat, the Village President and Village Clerk
shall be authorized to sign the original tracing. The certificates on the final
plat shall be in the following forms with the signatures of the president of
the County Board and the County Clerk to be necessary only where the plat
covers land in the unincorporated one and one-half mile fringe area.
      (1)   Certificate of village and county officials.
 
Under the authority provided by 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8 as now or hereafter amended, enacted by the State Legislature of the State of Illinois and the ordinances adopted by the Village
Board, this plat was given approval by the village, as follows:
 
Approved by the Plan Commission at a meeting held                                                                                      
 
                                                                                   
Chairperson
 
(Seal)                                                                                      
Secretary
 
Approved by the Village Board at a meeting held                                                                                    
 
                                                                                   
President
 
(Seal)                                                                                      
Village Clerk
 
Approved by the Village Engineer on                                                                                      
 
                                                                                   
Village Engineer
 
Approved by the County Board at a meeting held                                                                                      
 
                                                                                   
President, County Board
 
(Seal)                                                                                      
County Clerk
 
 
      (2)   Certificate of registered land surveyor. Each final plat submitted
to the village for approval shall carry a certificate signed by a state
registered land surveyor in substantially the following form:
 
I,  (Name)  , hereby certify that I am an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor in compliance with the laws of the State of Illinois and that this plat correctly
represents a survey completed by me on (Date), that all monuments shown thereon actually exist, and that their location, size, type and material are accurately shown.
 
SEAL
 
                                                                                   
Signature
Illinois Land Surveyor No.                                             
 
      (3)   Deed of dedication of lands for public use. Each final plat
submitted to the village for approval shall carry a deed of dedication in
substantially the following form:
 
We, the undersigned,  (Name) , owners of the real estate shown and described herein, do hereby lay off, plat and subdivide said real estate in accordance with the
within plat.
 
This subdivision shall be known and designated as  (Name) , an addition to the Village of Dolton or Cook County, (whichever the case may be). All streets and alleys
and public open spaces shown and not heretofore dedicated are hereby dedicated to the public.
 
Front and side yard building setback lines are hereby established as shown on this plat, between which lines and the property lines of the streets, there shall be
erected or maintained no building or structure.
 
There are strips of ground,  (Number)  feet in width, as shown in this plat and marked “Easement”, reserved for the use of public utilities for the installation of
water and sewer mains, poles, ducts, lines and wires, subject at all times to the proper authorities and to the easement herein reserved. No permanent or other
structures are to be erected or maintained upon said strips of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their title subject to the rights of the public
utilities, and to the rights of the owners of other lots in this subdivision.
 
(Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions, would be inserted here upon the subdivider’s initiative or the recommendation of the Plan
Commission or Village Board; important provisions are those specifying the use to be made of the property and, in the case of residential use, the minimum habitable
floor area.)
 
The foregoing covenants (or restrictions) are to run with the land and shall be binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until January 1,
               (25-year period is suggested); at which time said covenants (or restrictions) shall be automatically extended for successive periods of ten years
unless by vote of a majority of the then owners of the building sites covered by these covenants, or restrictions, it is agreed to change such covenants, or
restrictions, in whole or in part.
Invalidation of any one of the foregoing covenants, or restrictions, by judgment or court order, shall in no way affect any of the other covenants or restrictions,
which shall remain in full force and effect.
 
The right to enforce these provisions by injunction together with the right to cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof erected or
maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public, and reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and to their heirs and
assigns.
 
WITNESS our Hands and Seals this                    day of                                  ,                    .
 
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
 
State of Illinois   )
ss )
County of Cook   )
 
Before me, the undersigned notary public, in and for the county and state, personally appeared,  (Name) ,  (Name) ,  (Name) , and each separately and severally
acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed.
 
WITNESS my Hand and Notarial Seal this                     day of                              ,                 .
                                                                                   
Notary Public
 
      (4)   Additional certificates, affidavits and the like. Such other
certificates, affidavits, endorsements or dedications as may be required by the
Plan Commission or the Village Board in these enforcement regulations.
   (G)   Recording final plat.
      (1)   Upon approval by the Village Board, the developer shall record the
plat with the Recorder or Registrar of Titles of the county within four months.
If not recorded within this time, the approval shall be null and void.
Immediately after recording, the original or a duly certified copy shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
      (2)   The owner is to record and pay recording fees direct to the
recording officer.
   (H)   Plats and data for final approval.
      (1)   Final plat. Final plat shall be drawn in ink on tracing cloth on
sheets 29 inches wide by 34 inches long and shall be at a scale of 100 feet to
one inch. Where necessary, the plat may be on several sheets accompanied by an
index sheet showing the entire subdivison. For large subdivisions, the final
plat may be submitted for approval progressively in contiguous sections
satisfactory to the Plan Commission. The final plat shall show the following:
         (a)   Primary control points, approved by the Village Engineer, or
descriptions and “ties” to such control points to which all dimensions, angles,
bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referred;
         (b)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements
and other rights-of-way, and property lines of residential lots and other
sites; with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles and radii, acres
and central angles of all curves;
         (c)   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-
way;
         (d)   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easement;
         (e)   Number to identify each lot or site and block;
         (f)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are
dedicated or reserved;
         (g)   Proposed building setback line on all lots and other sites;
         (h)   Location and description of monuments;
         (i)   Names of record owners of adjoining unplatted land;
         (j)   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted
land by record name, date and number;
         (k)   Certification by surveyor or engineer certifying to accuracy of
survey and plat;
         (l)   Certification of title showing that applicant is land owner;
         (m)   Statement by owner dedicating streets, rights-of-way and any
sites for public uses;
         (n)   Certification of approval by the Plan Commission;
         (o)   Name of subdivision;
         (p)   Location by section, township and range; and
         (q)   Title, scale, north arrow and date.
      (2)   Cross-sections and profiles of street.
         (a)   Cross-sections and profiles of streets showing grades approved
by the Village Engineer.
         (b)   The profiles shall be drawn to village standard scales and
elevations and shall be based on the village datum plane.
      (3)   Certificate from Village Engineer. A certificate by the Village
Engineer certifying that the subdivider has complied with one of the following
alternatives:
         (a)   All improvements have been installed in accord with the
requirements of these regulations and with the action of the Plan Commission
giving conditional approval of the preliminary plat; or
         (b)   A bond or certified check has been posted, which is available to
the village, and in sufficient amount to assure such completion of all required
improvements.
      (4)   Protective covenants. Protective covenants in form for recording.
      (5)   Other data. Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements or
deductions as may be required by the Plan Commission in the enforcement of
these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-3) (Ord. passed 5-15-1984)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 157.035 STREET PLAN.
   (A)   All streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety,
and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served
by such streets.
   (B)   Where such is not shown in the general development plan, the
arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
      (1)   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in surrounding areas; or
      (2)   Conform to a plan for the area or neighborhood approved or adopted
by the Plan Commission to meet a particular situation where topographical or
other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets
impracticable.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1)
§ 157.036 STREETS.
   (A)   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
   (B)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
expressway or primary street, as shown on the general development plan, the
Plan Commission may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage with
screen planting contained in a non-access reservation, at least ten feet wide,
along the rear property line, deep lots with rear service alleys or such other
treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties
and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
   (C)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad or expressway,
the Plan Commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each
side of such railroad or expressway, at a distance suitable for the appropriate
use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in residential districts, or
for commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances
shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach
grades and future grade separations.
   (D)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets or alleys shall be
prohibited.
   (E)   All street intersections and confluences should encourage safe traffic
flow.
   (F)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
   (G)   Tangents shall be introduced between reserve curves on all streets.
(See Table of Minimum Standards, division (Q) below.)
   (H)   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one point
by more than ten degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to ensure clear sight distances. (See Table of Minimum Standards,
division (Q) below.)
   (I)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at less than 60
degrees.
   (J)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a radius
as specified in division (Q) below, Table of Minimum Standards. The Plan
Commission may permit comparable cut-offs or chords in place of rounded
corners.
   (K)   Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown in the general
development plan and where not shown therein, shall be as specified in division
(Q) below, Table of Minimum Standards.
   (L)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where the Plan Commission finds it will
be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
   (M)   Dead-end streets (cul-de-sac) designed to be so permanently, shall not
be longer than 500 feet from the intersection of the origin through the center
of the circle to the end of the right-of-way, and shall be provided at the
closed end with a turn-around having an outside pavement diameter of at least
105 feet and a street property line diameter of at least 125 feet.
   (N)   (1)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets.
      (2)   Existing street names shall be projected wherever possible. Street
names shall be subject to the approval of the Plan Commission and the village’s
Board of Trustees.
   (O)   Street gradients and vertical curves shall be as specified in division
(Q) below, Table of Minimum Standards.
   (P)   Street grades shall provide proper relation between the street and the
first floor elevation of the houses or buildings and to permit convenient and
economical access to and drainage of the lots.
   (Q)   (1)   Table of Minimum Standards for Street Design:
       Right-of-Way                Radius of  Length of        Tangents Between
Street Width        Pavement Width Horizontal Vertical Curves* Reverse Curves
                                   Curves
             Right-of-Way                Radius of  Length of Tangents
Street       Width        Pavement Width Horizontal Vertical  Between Reverse
                                         Curves     Curves*   Curves
Collector    66 ft.       36 ft.         400 ft.    150 ft.   150 ft.
Cul-de-sac   60 ft.       31 ft.         200 ft.    100 ft.   100 ft.
Expressways* 200 ft.                     500 ft.    200 ft.   200 ft.
In business  80 - 100 ft. 56 ft.         500 ft.    200 ft.   200 ft.
districts*
Local        100 ft.                     500 ft.    200 ft.   200 ft.
expressways*
Marginal     40 ft.       20 ft.         200 ft.    100 ft.   100 ft.
access
Minor for    66 ft.       36 ft.         300 ft.    150 ft.   150 ft.
apartments
Minor for
other        60 ft.       31 ft.         100 ft.    100 ft.   100 ft.
residences
Primary*     80 - 100 ft.                500 ft.    200 ft.   200 ft.
Secondary*   80 ft.       40 ft.         400 ft.    200 ft.   200 ft.
 
                                         Clear Sight Radius of Property
Street Maximum Gradient Minimum Gradient Distance    Lines at Street
                                                     Intersections
                                                              Radius of
Street          Maximum Gradient Minimum Gradient Clear Sight Property Lines at
                                                  Distance    Street
                                                              Intersections
Collector       6%               0.35%            300 ft.     20 ft.
Cul-de-sac      6%               0.35%            200 ft.     15 ft.
Expressways*    5%               0.35%            500 ft.
In business     2%               0.35%            500 ft.
district
Local           5%               0.35%            500 ft.
expressways*
Marginal access 6%               0.35%            200 ft.     15 ft.
Minor for other 6%               0.35%            200 ft.     15 ft.
residences
Minor for row
houses and      6%               0.35%            200 ft.     15 ft.
apartments
Primary*        5%               0.35%            500 ft.     25 ft.
Secondary*      5%               0.35%            400 ft.     20 ft.
 
      (2)   Minimum standards for streets marked with an asterisk* shall be as
indicated or as determined by the Plan Commission and the Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2)
§ 157.037 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial, business and industrial
districts; except that, the Plan Commission may waive this requirement where
other definite and assured provision is made for service access such as off-
street loading, unloading and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses
proposed.
   (B)   Alleys in residential areas shall not be permitted.
   (C)   The width of an alley shall be 30 feet in commercial, business and
industrial districts.
   (D)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
   (E)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turn-around facilities at the dead end, as
determined by the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3)
§ 157.038 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least ten feet wide.
   (B)   Easements shall be designed to provide continuity from block to block.
   (C)   (1)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse and
such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose and as determined by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Parallel streets or parkways may be required in connection
therewith.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4)
§ 157.039 BLOCKS.
   (A)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated;
      (2)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
      (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic; and
      (4)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (B)   Block lengths shall not exceed 1,500 feet or be less than 600 feet.
   (C)   Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, shall be required
where deemed necessary by the Plan Commission to provide circulation or access
to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other community
facilities.
   (D)   Blocks, or portions thereof, intended for commercial and industrial
use shall be designated as such, and the plan shall show adequate off-street
areas to provide for parking, loading docks and such other facilities as
required by
Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-5)
§ 157.040 LOTS.
   (A)   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation shall be appropriate
for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use
contemplated.
   (B)   Lot dimensions and areas shall conform to the requirements of
Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances; however:
      (1)   Residential lots where not served by public sanitary sewers shall
not be less than 100 feet wide, nor less than 20,000 square feet in area;
      (2)   Where unusual soil conditions or other physical factors exist which
may impair the health and safety of the residents of the neighborhood in which
a subdivision may be located, upon recommendation of the state’s Department of
Public Health, the Plan Commission may increase lot area requirements as may be
necessary;
      (3)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall
have additional minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate
building site and afford the minimum usable area required in
Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances for front, rear and side yards; and
      (4)   Depth and width of lots or properties reserved or laid out for
commercial, business and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for
the off-street service and parking facilities required by
Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances for the type of use and development
contemplated.
   (C)   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
   (D)   All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated street.
   (E)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from
expressways or primary streets, or to overcome specific disadvantages of
topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten feet,
and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the
line of lots abutting such expressways and primary streets or other
disadvantageous use.
   (F)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-6)
§ 157.041 BUILDING SETBACK LINES.
   (A)   Except for the following, building setback lines in residential areas
of new subdivisions shall conform to the front yard provisions of Ch. 158 of
this code of ordinances.
      (1)   Corner lots shall maintain not less than the minimum building
setback lines on both streets.
      (2)   In the interest of sound community development, buildings shall be
irregularly staggered in their setback within a distance of eight feet beyond
the minimum building setback line in accordance with the following schedule:
         (a)   Not more than 50% at the minimum building setback line;
         (b)   Not less than 30% at a distance of not less than four feet
beyond the minimum building setback line; and
         (c)   Not less than 20% at a distance of eight feet beyond the minimum
building setback line.
   (B)   The staggered arrangement of the buildings shall meet with the
approval of the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-7)
§ 157.042 PARKS, SCHOOLS AND PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   Whenever the reasonable requirements provided by this chapter,
including the duly adopted Official Comprehensive Plan for the village and the
Official Map, shall indicate the necessity for providing for a school site,
park site or other public lands within any proposed subdivision, and no such
provision has been made therefor, the Plan Commission may recommend and the
President and Board of Trustees may require that lands be designated for such
public purpose before approving such plat.
   (B)   Whenever a final plat of subdivision, or part thereof, has been
approved by the President and Board of Trustees as complying with the Official
Comprehensive Plan and Official Map, and there is designated therein a school
site, park site or other public land, the President and Board of Trustees
having jurisdiction of such use, be it a school board, park board or other
authority, such authority shall acquire the land so designated by purchase or
commence proceedings to acquire such land by condemnation within one year from
the date of approval of such plat by the President and Board of Trustees; and,
if the said corporate authority does not do so within such period of one year,
the land so designated may then be used by the owners thereof in any other
manner consistent with this chapter, including the Official Plan and Official
Map and Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-8)
§ 157.043 NATURAL FEATURES.
   In the subdividing of any land within the village, or within one-half mile
of the corporate limits, due regard shall be shown for all natural features
such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots or similar conditions which,
if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-9)
§ 157.044 COMPLIANCE WITH OFFICIAL PLAN.
   The subdivision of land, including the arrangement, character, extent,
width, grade and location of all expressways, streets, alleys, crosswalks,
easements, sites for parks, playgrounds and schools, or other land to be
dedicated for public use, shall conform to the general development plan of the
village as approved by the Plan Commission and adopted by the Village Board and
other responsible governmental bodies of the village, as a part of the Official
Plan of the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-10)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 157.055 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   No map or plat of any subdivision or resubdivision presented for record,
affecting land within the corporate limits of the village, or in contiguous
territory outside of and distant not more than one and one-half mile from such
limits and not included in any other municipality, shall be entitled to record
or shall be valid unless the subdivision thereon shall provide for streets,
alleys and public grounds in conformity with any requirements applicable to the
Official Plan of the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1)
§ 157.056 REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS.
   Before a subdivision shall be approved, the Village Engineer shall certify
that the improvements described in the subdivider’s plans and specifications,
together with agreements, meet the minimum requirements of all ordinances of
the village and that they comply with the following.
   (A)   Monuments and markers.
      (1)   (a)   Monuments shall be placed at all corners and angle points of
the outside boundary, but no further than one-fourth mile apart.
         (b)   The monuments shall be of concrete, not less than six inches in
diameter and 36 inches deep with a copper dowel three inches long and one-half
inch in diameter cast in place.
         (c)   Iron pipe or steel bars three-quarter inch in diameter and 24
inches long shall be set at the intersection of street centerlines and at all
corners of lots not marked by monuments.
      (2)   The monuments and bars shall be set level with the finished grade.
   (B)   Utility and street improvements.
      (1)   Utility and street improvements shall be provided in each new
subdivision in accordance with the standards and requirements described in the
schedules in division (C) below.
      (2)   The standards and specifications for each general type of
development shall be as follows:
         (a)   For apartments, improvements to be in accord with Standard A;
         (b)   For one- and two-family dwellings, improvements to be in accord
with Standard B;
         (c)   For one-family homes with typical lot widths greater than
division (B)(2)(b) above, improvements to be in accord with Standard C; and
         (d)   For commercial, business, industrial and other types, as
determined by the Plan Commission and the Village Engineer.
   (C)   Schedules of required utilities and street and lot improvements.
 Standard
 A B C
                                                                        Standard
                                                                        A B C
Alleys: paved full width per village specifications                     x x x
Collector streets: 66 ft. r.o.w.; 36 ft. pavements; 5 ft. 4 in.         x x x
sidewalks per village specifications
Curb and gutter:
   P.C.C. per village specifications                                 x x
   Rolled, P.C.C. per village specifications                           x x
Curbs: battered, P.C.C. (portland cement concrete) per village          x x
specifications
Driveways: P.C.C. per village specifications                            x x x
Gas: in street planting strip                                           x x x
Grading and centerline gradients: per plans and profiles approved by    x x x
Village Engineer
Lot grading: per village specifications                                 x x x
Marginal access streets: 40 ft. r.o.w.; 20 ft. pavement; 5 ft. 4 in.    x x
sidewalk on one side per village specifications
Minor streets:
   66 ft. r.o.w.; 36 ft. pavement; 5 ft. 4 in. sidewalks per village x
specifications
   60 ft. r.o.w.; 31 ft. pavement; 5 ft. 4 in. sidewalks per village   x x
specifications
Pavement: P.C.C. per village specifications                             x x x
Pavement base:
   Gravel per village specifications                                 x x x
   Crushed stone per village specifications                          x x x
   P.C.C. per village specifications                                 x x
Primary streets: cross-sections in accordance with the general
development plan and as determined by the Village Engineer and the Plan x x x
Commission
Public sanitary sewers per village specifications and connected to      x x x*
sanitary sewer system of the village
Public water per village specifications and connected to the water      x x x
distribution system of the village
Seeding of planting strips in streets: per village specifications       x x x
Sidewalks: 5 in. thick P.C.C. per village specifications                x x x
Storm sewer system and other drainage improvements: per plans and       x x x
specifications approved by Village Engineer and the Plan Commission
Street lighting: per village specifications                             x x x
Street name signs: at all intersections per village specifications      x x x
Street trees: 3 in. caliper; 40 ft. to 50 ft. apart per village           x x
specifications
Streets along development with existing improved street system: cross-  x x x
sections as determined by Village Engineer and Plan Commission
Telephone and electric service: in rear or side lot easements           x x x
Valley gutter: P.C.C. per village specifications                            x
Wearing surface:
   Asphaltic concrete plant mixed per village specifications         x x
   Double bituminous surface treatment per village specifications      x x
NOTES TO TABLE:
* If septic tanks, per the state’s Board of Health, but only if lot area is no
less than 20,000 sq. ft., and only if the President and Board of Trustees grant
a special permit.
 
All plans and specifications for utility and street improvements shall be
prepared by and certified by a state registered professional engineer.
 
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2)
§ 157.057 PREREQUISITES TO CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   No building permit shall be issued providing for the improvement of any lot
in said subdivision until there has been filed with the Building Commissioner a
certified copy of said plat of subdivision as recorded or registered in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds or Registrar of Titles, as the case may be; nor
shall a building permit be issued for the improvement of any lot until the
plans and specifications for the public improvements have been approved by and
filed with the President and Board of Trustees and until cash and surety bond
as provided by ordinance are posted with the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3)
§ 157.058 GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   In addition to the completion bond, the owner or subdivider shall furnish to
and deposit with the village an amount in case equal to 15% of the estimated
cost of such improvement to be held by the village for a period of 18 months
after the final completion of such work as a guarantee against any defect in
material or workmanship furnished in connection with such improvements, latent
in character and not discernible at the time of the final approval of such
improvement, and to guarantee against any damage to such improvements by reason
of settling of the ground, base or foundation thereof. After the termination of
such 18-month period, such deposit shall be refunded to the depositor, or the
order of such depositor, if no defects have developed, or if any defects have
developed, then the balance of such deposit after reimbursement of the village
for any amounts expended by it in the curing of such defects.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-4)
§ 157.059 INSPECTIONS; COSTS TO SUBDIVIDER.
   All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of this
chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction by the Village
Engineer or a duly designated deputy. All fees and costs connected with such
inspection and in reviewing the plans and specifications for such improvements
shall be paid by the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-5)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-9)
CHAPTER 158: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
158.001   Short title
   
158.002   Purpose
   
158.003   Interpretation
   
158.004   Scope of regulations
   
158.005   Rules of construction
   
158.006   Definitions
   
158.007   Lot area and dimensions
   
158.008   Building height, bulk and lot coverage
   
158.009   Buildings on a zoning lot
   
158.010   Access to public street
   
158.011   Grade relationship of dwellings
   
158.012   Architectural design of buildings
Zoning Districts and Maps
   
158.025   Zoning districts established
   
158.026   Zoning maps
   
158.027   District boundaries
   
158.028   Zoning of streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights-of-way
   
158.029   Zoning of new or annexed land
   
158.030   Rezoning of land for public use
Residential Districts
   
158.045   Purpose
   
158.046   R-1 One-Family Dwelling District
   
158.047   R-2 One-Family Dwelling District
   
158.048   R-3 One-Family Dwelling District
   
158.049   R-4 Two-Family Dwelling District
   
158.050   R-5 Three-Family Dwelling District
   
158.051   R-6 Multiple-Family Dwelling District
   
158.052   R-7 Planned Senior/Elderly Family Dwelling District
Business Districts
   
158.065   Purpose
   
158.066   Merchandise loading and unloading; external lighting restrictions
   
158.067   Outdoor refuse storage
   
158.068   B-1 Planned Business Center District
   
158.069   B-2 Limited Retail Business District
   
158.070   B-2A Restricted Retail Business District
   
158.071   B-3 General Business District
   
158.072   B-4 Business Services and Wholesale District
Manufacturing Districts
   
158.085   Purpose
   
158.086   M-1 Limited Manufacturing District
   
158.087   M-2 General Manufacturing District
Non-Conforming Buildings and Uses
   
158.100   Non-conforming uses
   
158.101   Restoration of damaged buildings
   
158.102   Non-conforming commercial or industrial buildings in residential
districts
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
158.115   Purpose
   
158.116   General provisions; scope of regulations
   
158.117   Use of parking facilities
   
158.118   Joint parking facilities
   
158.119   Location of parking areas
   
158.120   Accessory off-street parking areas
   
158.121   Design, development and maintenance
   
158.122   Special use public parking areas
   
158.123   Schedule of parking requirements
   
158.124   Off-street loading regulations and requirements
   
158.125   Schedule of loading requirements
Signs
   
158.140   Sign regulations
   
158.141   Interpretation
   
158.142   Signs in residential districts
   
158.143   Signs in business districts
   
158.144   Signs in manufacturing districts
   
158.145   Signs in all districts
Antennas
   
158.160   Construction regulations and requirements
   
158.161   Ground-mounted antennas
   
158.162   Zoning requirements
Special Uses
   
158.175   Purpose
   
158.176   Permitted special uses; authority
   
158.177   Procedures for approval
   
158.178   Conditions of special use
   
158.179   Planned developments other than planned business centers
Administration and Enforcement
   
158.190   Enforcement; official authority
   
158.191   Certificates of occupancy
   
158.192   Plats
   
158.193   Zoning Board of Appeals; appeals and variances
   
158.194   Amendments
   
158.195   Fees
 
   
158.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be known, cited and referred to as the “Dolton Zoning
Code”.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1)
§ 158.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and
general welfare of the people;
   (B)   To divide the village into zones or districts, restricting and
regulating therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of buildings, structures and land for residence, business
and manufacturing and other specified uses;
   (C)   To protect the character and the stability of the residential,
business and manufacturing areas within the village and to promote the orderly
and beneficial development of such areas;
   (D)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   (E)   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas, and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings, necessary to provide adequate light
and air and to protect the public health;
   (F)   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing or other uses within such areas;
   (G)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform therein;
   (H)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
   (I)   To prevent additions to or alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder;
   (J)   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off-street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading and unloading of commercial vehicles;
   (K)   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards in
the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
   (L)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
   (M)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
village;
   (N)   To provide for the elimination of non-conforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district; and
   (O)   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2)
§ 158.003 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate or annul any ordinance,
rules, regulations or permit previously adopted or issued and not in conflict
with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted or issued
pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises, and likewise not
in conflict with this chapter; nor is it intended by this chapter to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between
parties; except that, if this chapter imposes a greater restriction, this
chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3)
§ 158.004 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General compliance with provisions.
      (1)   No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
for any purpose other than is permitted in the district in which the building
or land is located.
      (2)   No application for a building permit or other permit or license, or
for a certificate of occupancy shall be approved by the administrative officer
of this chapter, and no permit or license shall be issued by any other village
department which would authorize the use or change in use of any land or
building contrary to the provisions of this chapter, or the erection, moving,
alteration, enlargement or occupancy of any building designed or intended to be
used for a purpose or in a manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Buildings under construction. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed
to require any change in the plans, construction or designated use of any
building upon which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the
adoption of this chapter and upon which building actual construction has been
diligently carried on; and, provided further that, such building shall be
completed within one year from the date of passage and publication of this
chapter.
   (C)   Vacancy and non-use. The zoning for any non-residential parcel of land
on which a building or structure located thereon has remained vacant, unused or
unoccupied for 12 consecutive months, the zoning classification for said parcel
shall be deemed to be either:
      (1)   The dominate zoning for the area; or
      (2)   The zoning of the parcel prior to the last special use permit or
zoning variance granted.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. 03-205, passed 3-3-2003)
§ 158.005 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General. In the construction of this chapter, the rules and
definitions contained in this chapter shall be observed and applied, except
when the content clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1)
   (B)   Rules of word construction.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future; words used in
the singular number shall include the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      (2)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
      (3)   The word “may” is permissive.
      (4)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot”, “piece” and
“parcel”; the word “building” includes all other structures of every kind
regardless of similarity to buildings; and the phrase “used for” shall include
the phrases “arranged for”, “designed for”, “intended for”, “maintained for”
and “occupied for”.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2)
§ 158.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE.
      (1)   One which:
         (a)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal
use;
         (b)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served;
         (c)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of
occupants of the principal building or principal use served; and
         (d)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served with the single exception of such accessory off-street
parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the building or use served.
      (2)   An ACCESSORY USE includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A children’s playhouse, garden house and private greenhouse;
         (b)   A garage or building for domestic use;
         (c)   Incinerators incidental to residential use;
         (d)   Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing
activities, on the same lot or parcel of ground with such activities, unless
such storage is excluded by the district regulations;
         (e)   Off-street motor vehicle parking areas and loading and unloading
facilities;
         (f)   Signs (other than advertising signs) as permitted and regulated
in each district incorporated in this chapter;
         (g)   Carports;
         (h)   Public utility communication, electric, gas, water and sewer
lines, their supports and incidental equipment; and
         (i)   None of the following shall be an ACCESSORY USE: outdoor parking
of trucks, buses, trailers, aircraft or boats; except that, either a single
boat less than ten feet tall (as parked, including trailer if parked on
trailer) and less than 18 feet in length including bumper and hitch, or single
camping trailer or boat trailer less than five feet tall and less than 26 feet
in length including bumper and hitch, may be parked on an improved lot;
provided that, at no time shall such parked boat or trailer be occupied or used
for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes.
   ALLEY. A public way not more than 30 feet wide which affords only a
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   ANTENNA. An apparatus, external to or attached to the exterior of a
building, together with any supporting structure for sending or receiving
electromagnetic waves.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit.
Complete kitchen, bath and toilet facilities, permanently installed, must
always be included for each APARTMENT.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
   AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY. A building or portion thereof where automobiles are
washed with the use of a chain conveyor and blower or steam-cleaning device.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn
or damaged motor vehicles or trailers, collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair, and overall painting of vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and motor
service to automobiles, but not including any operation specified under
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline, stored only in
underground tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil or grease for operation of
automobiles, are offered for sale directly to the public on the premises, and
including minor accessories and services for automobiles; but not including
major automobile repairs; and including washing of automobiles where no chain
conveyor, blower or steam- cleaning device is employed. When the dispensing,
sale or offering for sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental to the conduct of
a public garage, the premises shall be classified as a “public garage”.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS shall not include sale or storage of junkers or
junkyards, as defined herein.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARDS. Any place where two or more motor vehicles not in
running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being
restored to operation, or any land, building or structure used for wrecking or
storing of such motor vehicle or parts thereof; and including any used farm
vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being
restored to operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging of any
other goods, articles or merchandise.
   AWNING. A roof-like cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall
of a building or overhangs the public way.
   BASEMENT. A story having part, but not more than one-half, of its height
below grade. A BASEMENT is counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulation if subdivided and used for business or dwelling purposes other than
by a janitor employed on the premises. Finish floor below the adjoining outside
finish grade shall be two feet six inches maximum at required windows when used
for habitable rooms. A BASEMENT shall have an entrance other than through a
habitable room.
   BILLBOARD. Any structure or portion thereof upon which are signs or
advertisements used as an outdoor display. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to announce church services or to display court or other
public office notices, or signs offering the sale or lease of the premises on
which the sign is located.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or, in lieu of a street or
streets, by public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bulkhead lines,
shorelines of waterways or a corporate boundary line of the village.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are
provided for compensation to three or more persons, but not more than 20 who
are not members of the keeper’s family.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on the zoning lot after the minimum open
space requirements of this chapter have been complied with.
   BUILDING. Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to
the land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space
or by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or openings; and
which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels. Any structure with interior areas not normally
accessible for human use, such as gas holders, oil tanks, water tanks, grain
elevators, coal bunkers, oil cracking towers and other similar structures, are
not considered as BUILDINGS.
   BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED. A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space, or from other buildings or other structures by a permanent
roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows and normal
entrance or exit doors.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level or
its equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the
building to the highest point of the roof in the case of a flat roof; to the
deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and
ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof; provided that, where buildings are set
back from the street line, the HEIGHT OF THE BUILDING may be measured from the
average elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building.
   BUILDING, NON-CONFORMING. Any building which does not conform to the
regulations of this chapter prescribing the maximum floor area ratio, required
yards, coverage, height and setbacks, minimum required spacing between
buildings on a single lot and minimum required usable open space for the
district in which such building is located.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main use of the
zoning lot on which it is situated.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the street line at a distance from
it, regulated by the front yard requirements set up in this chapter.
   BULK. The term used to describe the size and mutual relationship of
buildings and other structures as to size, height, coverage, shape, location of
exterior walls in relation to lot lines, to the centerline of streets, to other
walls of the same building, and to other buildings or structures, and to all
open spaces relating to the building or structure.
   BUS LOT. Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of passenger
buses or motor coaches.
   CARTAGE, LOCAL. Pick-up and delivery of parcels, packages and freight by
motor truck within and not exceeding 15 miles of the village.
   CELLAR. A story having more than one-half of its height below the curb level
or below the highest level of the adjoining ground. A CELLAR shall not be
counted as a story for the purpose of height measurements. A CELLAR shall have
an entrance other than through a habitable room. A CELLAR shall not be used for
dwelling purposes.
   CLINIC or MEDICAL HEALTH CENTER. An establishment where patients are
admitted for special study and treatment by two or more licensed physicians and
their professional associates practicing medicine together.
   CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE. An association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases a building or portion thereof.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE. A single dwelling unit occupied on a relatively
permanent basis as a single housekeeping unit, in a family-like environment, by
unrelated persons with disabilities, plus paid professional support staff
provided by a sponsoring agency, either living with the residents on a 24-hour
basis, or present whenever residents with disabilities are present at the
dwelling. A COMMUNITY RESIDENCE for persons with disabilities, plus support
staff, shall be considered a residential use.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT, CORNER.
   CORNER LOT, REVERSED. See LOT, REVERSED CORNER.
   COVERAGE, LOT. See LOT COVERAGE.
   CURB LEVEL. See GRADE.
   DISABILITY. A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of a person’s major life activities, impairs their ability to live
independently or a record of having such an impairment, or being regarded as
having such an impairment.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the village for which the regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises, or the height of buildings, or the
size of yards, or intensity of use are uniform.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, but not including a house trailer
or mobile home, designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy,
including one-family dwelling units, two-family dwelling units, multiple-family
dwelling units and community residences, but not including hotels, boarding or
lodging houses.
   DWELLING GROUP. Two or more one-family, two-family, three-family or
multiple-family dwellings or boarding or lodging houses, located on one zoning
lot, but not including tourist courts or motels.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed or altered
for occupancy by four or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for use and occupancy
by one family and entirely separated from any other dwelling by space.
   DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY. A building designed or altered to provide dwelling
units for occupancy by three families living independently of each other with
permission for one of the units to be located no lower than 18 inches below
grade.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential structure or apartment-
hotel designed for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping purposes.
   FAMILY. An individual or married couple and the children thereof with not
more than two other persons related directly to the individual or married
couple by blood or marriage; or a group of not more than five unrelated
persons, living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
   FAMILY COMMUNITY RESIDENCE. A single dwelling unit occupied on a relatively
permanent basis in a family-like environment by a group of no more than eight
unrelated persons with disabilities plus paid professional support staff
provided by a sponsoring agency, either living with the residents on a 24-hour
basis, or present whenever residents with disabilities are present at the
dwelling; and complies with the zoning regulations for the district in which
the site is located.
   FARM. An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such
as vegetables, fruit trees and grain, and for the packing or storage of the
products produced on the premises as well as for the raising thereon of the
usual farm poultry and farm animals such as horses, cattle, sheep and swine as
secondary to crop raising, subject to distance limitations from residential
property and not including the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine
or other animals, the commercial feeding of animals on open lots where no feed
is raised on the premises or the commercial feeding of poultry broilers or
laboratory animals such as mice, rats, rabbits and the like.
   FILLING STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   FUEL BULK STATION. A place where crude petroleum, gasoline, naphtha,
benzine, benzol, kerosene or other flammable liquid which has a flash point at
or below 200°F (closed cup tester) is stored for wholesale purposes where the
aggregate capacity of all storage tanks is more than 6,000 gallons regardless
of whether the fuel is stored above ground, underground or in mobile tank cars
or trucks.
   GARAGE. A building or premises used for housing or care of self-propelled
vehicles.
   GARAGE, BUS. Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of
three or more passenger motor buses or motor coaches used in public
transportation, including school buses.
   GARAGE, BUS OR TRUCK. A building which is used or intended to be used for
the storage of motor trucks, truck-trailers, tractors and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half tons capacity.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building which is the property of and for the
use of the occupants of the lot on which the private garage is located.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building other than a private garage used for the care,
servicing and sale of automobile supplies or where motor vehicles are parked or
stored for remuneration, hire or sale within the structure, but not including
trucks, tractors, truck-trailers and commercial vehicles exceeding one and one-
half tons capacity.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any building or premises used for housing only of motor-
driven vehicles pursuant to previous arrangements and not to transients, and at
which automobile fuels and oils are not sold and motor-driven vehicles are not
equipped, repaired, hired or sold.
   GRADE.
      (1)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the elevation
of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
      (2)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of all walls adjoining
the streets.
      (3)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of
the building. Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet
from a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   GROSS FLOOR SPACE. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all the floors,
including attic and basement, in a building, which areas shall be measured from
the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of wails
separating buildings, as the case may be.
   GROUP COMMUNITY RESIDENCE. A single dwelling unit occupied on a relatively
permanent basis in a family-like environment by a group of nine to 15 unrelated
persons with disabilities, plus paid professional support staff provided by a
sponsoring agency, either living with the residents on a 24-hour basis, or
present whenever residents with disabilities are present at the dwelling; and
complies with the zoning regulations for the district in which the site is
located.
   GUEST HOUSE. Living quarters within a detached accessory building located on
the same premises with the principal building for use by temporary guests of
the occupants of the premises. Such quarters shall have no kitchen facilities
nor be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
   HABITABLE BUILDING. Any structure or part thereof that shall be used as a
home or place of abode by one or more persons.
   HABITABLE ROOM. Every room in any building in which persons regularly sleep,
eat or carry on their usual domestic or social vocations or avocations. It
shall not include private laundries, bathrooms, toilet rooms, pantries,
storerooms, corridors, rooms for mechanical equipment for service in the
building or other similar space not used by persons frequently or during
extended periods.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A gainful occupation or profession customarily carried on
by an occupant of a dwelling unit for residential purposes. The HOME OCCUPATION
shall be carried on wholly within the principal building or within a building
accessory thereto, and only by members of the family occupying the premises and
one person outside the family. No article shall be sold or offered for sale on
the premises, except such as is produced by the occupation on the premises and
no mechanical or electrical equipment shall be installed or maintained other
than such as is customarily incidental to domestic use. There shall be no
exterior display, no exterior sign except as allowed by the sign regulations
for the district in which such HOME OCCUPATION is located, no exterior storage
of materials, no other exterior indication of the HOME OCCUPATION or variation
from the residential character of the principal building, and no offensive
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare shall be produced. Offices,
clinics, doctors’ offices, hospitals, barber shops, beauty parlors, dress
shops, millinery shops, tearooms, restaurants, tourist homes, animal hospitals
and kennels, among others, shall not be deemed to be HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   HOSPITAL or SANITARIUM. An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance
and operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care for not less
than 24 hours in any week of three or more non-related individuals suffering
from illness, disease, injury, deformity or other abnormal physical conditions.
The term HOSPITAL, as used in this chapter, does not apply to institutions
operating solely for treatment of insane persons, drug addicts, liquor addicts
or other types of cases necessitating restraint of patients, and the term
HOSPITAL shall not include convalescent, nursing, shelter or boarding homes.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building in which more than five rooms or suites are
reserved to provide living and sleeping accommodations for temporary guests,
with no provisions in said rooms for cooking in any individual room or suite.
   HOTEL-APARTMENT. A building containing dwelling units or individual guest
rooms, the majority of which are for permanent guests. Maid and janitor service
may be provided, but kitchen facilities are not necessarily included.
   HOUSEHOLDER. The occupant of a dwelling unit who is either the owner or
lessee thereof.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a non-profit corporation or a non-profit
establishment for public use.
   JUNKER. An automobile, truck or other motor vehicle which has been damaged
to such an extent that it cannot be operated under its own power and will
require major repairs before being made usable or such a vehicle which does not
comply with state or village vehicle laws or ordinances.
   JUNKYARD. The use of more than 200 square feet of any lot where waste, scrap
metal, paper, rags or similar materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored,
baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including auto and building wrecking
yards, but excluding similar uses taking place entirely within a completely
enclosed building.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more
than four dogs, cats and other household domestic animals, over four months of
age, are kept or on which more than two such animals are boarded for
compensation or kept for sale.
   LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL. A place devoted to experimental study such as
testing and analyzing. Manufacturing, assembly or packaging of products is not
included within this definition.
   LINE OF BUILDING (FOR MEASURING YARDS). A line parallel to the nearest lot
line drawn through the point of a building or group of buildings nearest to
such lot line, exclusive of such features specified as being permitted to
extend into a yard.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An open, hard-surfaced area of land
other than a street or public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading and unloading of motor trucks, tractors and trailers to avoid
undue interference with the public use of streets and alleys. Such space shall
be not less than ten feet in width, 45 feet in length and 14 feet in height,
exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space.
   LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for
compensation to three or more, but not more than 20, persons.
   LOT. When used alone, shall mean a zoning lot unless the context of this
chapter clearly indicates otherwise.
   LOT, CORNER. A parcel of land situated at the intersection of two or more
streets or adjoining a curved street at the end of block.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a
public street; for a corner lot, the owner may elect either street line as the
front lot line.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The front property line of a zoning lot.
   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A side lot line common with another lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line or lot lines most nearly parallel to and most
remote from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Lot lines other than front or rear lot lines are side lot
lines.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county; or a parcel
of land, the deed to which was recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds
prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot, whether across an alley or not.
   LOT WIDTH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets, and which is not a corner lot. The horizontal distance between the
side lot lines measured at right angles to the lot depth at the established
front building line.
   LOT, ZONING. See ZONING LOT.
   MANUFACTURE. The making of anything by any agency or process.
   MARQUEE or CANOPY. A roof-like structure of a permanent nature which
projects from the wall of a building and overhangs the public way.
   MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA RATIO. The floor area ratio requirements, as set forth
under each zoning district, shall determine the maximum floor area allowable
for the building or buildings (total floor area of both principal and accessory
buildings) in direct ratio to the gross area of the zoning lot.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL, PRIVATE. A building in which freight, brought to
said building by motor truck, is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate
and interstate shipment by motor truck.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied by a
use or lawfully established at the time of the adoption of this chapter or
amendments hereto, which does not conform after the passage of this chapter or
amendments hereto with the use regulations of this chapter for the district in
which it is situated.
   NURSERY, DAY. An institution providing care for three or more children under
the age of four years for periods of more than four hours, but not exceeding 24
hours.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. An institution providing day care service for children from
four to six years of age.
   NURSING HOME or REST HOME. A private home for the care of children or the
aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but
not including facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries or for
surgical care.
   OCTAVE BAND. A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves
in order to classify sound according to pitch.
   PARCEL DELIVERY STATION. A building in which commodities, sold at retail
within the area and packaged by the retailer, are assembled and routed for
delivery to retail customers located within the area.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open, hard-surfaced area of land, other than a
street or public way, designed, arranged and made available for the storage of
private passenger automobiles only of occupants of the building or buildings
for which the parking area is developed and is accessory.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, intended to be used for the storage of passenger automobiles and
commercial vehicles under one and one-half tons capacity, and available to the
public, whether for compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or
customers.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILES. Space within a public or private parking area of
not less than 162 square feet (eight and one-half feet by 19 feet), exclusive
of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns or office and work areas, for the
storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under one and one-
half tons capacity.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied space, other than a street or alley, permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
   PLANNED BUSINESS CENTER. Any commercial development, consisting of one or
more buildings containing two or more stores or offices with an aggregate gross
floor space of more than 50,000 square feet, which development may be planned
or developed as a coordinated unit or which development may be characterized by
an integrated arrangement of stores, offices, buildings and facilities, shall
be considered as a single unit for all purposes within the meaning and scope of
this chapter, and shall be permitted only by special permit as a special use in
accordance with the provisions of §§
158.175 through
158.179 of this chapter.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land which is developed as a unit under
single ownership or control, which includes two or more principal buildings,
and which is at least four acres in area, except for planned developments
operated by a municipal corporation which shall be at least two acres in area,
and manufacturing planned developments which shall be at least ten acres in
area.
   PORCH. A roofed-over structure projecting out from the wall or walls of a
main structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation or municipal department duly
authorized to furnish to the public, under public regulation, electricity, gas,
steam, telephone, telegraph, transportation or water.
   RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities
for track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms, stations,
train sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops or water
towers.
   RESIDENTIAL STORAGE WAREHOUSE. Storage or warehousing service within a
building for individual to store personal effects and for businesses to store
materials for operation of an industrial or commercial enterprise elsewhere.
Incidental uses in a RESIDENTIAL STOREHOUSE may include the repair and
maintenance of stored materials by the tenant, but in no case may storage
spaces in a residential storage facility function as an independent retail,
wholesale, business or service use. Spaces may not be used for workshops, hobby
shops, manufacturing or similar uses. Human occupancy is limited to that
required to transport, arrange and maintain storage materials.
   RINGELMANN NUMBER. The number of the area on the Ringelmann Chart that
coincides most nearly with the visual density of emission.
   RUNWAY. A strip or area of pavement used exclusively for the landing or
taking off of aircraft or for the movement of vehicles incidental to such use.
   SETBACK LINE, BUILDING. See BUILDING SETBACK LINE.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to or painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure or piece of land, and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization or business.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than upon the
premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary and/or constant in intensity and color at all times when
such sign is in use. For the purpose of this chapter, any revolving,
illuminated sign shall be considered a FLASHING SIGN.
   SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous
perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of such sign and in no case passing
through or between any adjacent elements of same. However, such perimeter shall
not include any structural or framing elements lying outside the limits of such
sign and not forming an integral part of the display.
   SMOKE UNITS. Smoke units represent the number obtained by multiplying the
smoke density in Ringelmann numbers by the time of emission in minutes. For the
purpose of this chart, Ringelmann density reading is made at least once every
minute during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the
time in minutes during which it is observed; and the various products are added
together to give the total number of SMOKE UNITS observed during the total
period under observation.
   SPECIAL USE. Any use of land or buildings, or both, described and permitted
herein, subject to the provisions of §§
158.175 through
158.179 of this chapter.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of
a STORY exceeding 14 feet in height shall be considered as an additional STORY
for each 14 feet or fraction thereof.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a gable, hip or mansard roof,
the wall plates of which, on at least two opposite exterior walls, are not more
than four and one-half feet above the finished floor of such story. In the case
of one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings
less than three stories in height, a HALF STORY in a sloping roof shall not be
counted as a story for the purpose of this chapter; in the case of multiple-
family dwellings three or more stories in height, a HALF STORY shall be counted
as a story.
   STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public streets, highway,
freeway or roadway purposes or subject to public easements therefor.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change other than incidental repairs which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building or structure such as
bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything which is constructed or erected, the use of which
requires permanent location on the ground, or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground, including, but without limiting to, the
generality of the foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, backstops for
tennis courts and pergolas.
   TAVERN. A building where liquors are sold to be consumed on the premises.
   TERRACE, OPEN. A level and rather narrow plane or platform which, for the
purpose of this chapter, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the
principal structure and which is constructed not more than four feet in height
above the average level of the adjoining ground.
   TOURIST COURTS, MOTOR LODGES, MOTELS. A group of attached or detached
buildings, containing individual sleeping or living units, designed for or used
temporarily by automobile tourists or transients, with garage attached or
parking space conveniently located to each unit, including auto courts, motels,
motor lodges or other similar type uses.
   TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which accommodations are provided or offered for
transient guests.
   TRAILER. A vehicle without motive power used or adaptable for living,
sleeping, business or storage purposes having no foundation other than wheels,
blocks, skids, jacks, horses or skirting, which does not meet Building Code
requirements and has been or reasonably may be equipped with wheels or other
devices for transporting the structure from place to place. The term TRAILER
shall include CAMP CAR and HOUSE CAR. A permanent foundation shall not change
its character unless the entire structure is erected in accordance with the
village’s Building Code.
   TRAILER CAMP. Any premises occupied or designed to accommodate one or more
families living in an automobile house trailer or mobile home, or the parking
of one or more trailers for business or storage purposes.
   TRAILER HOUSE or MOBILE HOME. Any trailer, as defined herein, used for
residential purposes.
   TRUCK PARKING AREA OR YARD. Any land used or intended to be used for the
storage or parking of trucks, tractors and truck trailers, and including
commercial vehicles, while not loading or unloading, and which exceeds one and
one-half tons in capacity.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged
or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
   USED CAR LOT. A zoning lot on which used or new cars, trailers or trucks are
displayed for sale or trade.
   UTILITY ROOM. A room or rooms which has as its primary function a place to
store or house any washing machine and/or dryers, washing tubs or trays,
heating unit, hot water heater, gas meter, electric meter or water meter or a
combination of any of the above.
   YARD. An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or
group of buildings which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, and which extends along
a lot line and at right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the
yard regulations for the district in which the zoning lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and
lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of a building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and
lying between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building, which is unobstructed and unoccupied from its lowest level upward,
except as otherwise permitted in this chapter.
   YARD, SIDE. The part of the yard lying between the nearest line of the
principal building and a side lot line, and extending from the required front
yard (or from the front lot line, if there is no required front yard) to the
required rear yard, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward except as otherwise permitted in this chapter.
   ZONING LOT. A plot of ground made up of one or more parcels which is or may
be occupied by a use, building or buildings including the open spaces required
by this chapter.
   ZONING MAPS. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as a part hereof
designating zoning districts.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3) (Ord. 87-138, passed 11-24-1987; Ord. 90-134, passed 10-
16-1990; Ord. 90-140, passed 12-18-1990; Ord. 05-326, passed 12-19-2005)
§ 158.007 LOT AREA AND DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Contiguous parcels.
      (1)   When two or more parcels of land, each of which lacks adequate area
and dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the requirements of the use
district in which they are located, are contiguous and are held in one
ownership, they shall be used as one zoning lot for such use.
      (2)   The minimum areas that may constitute a separate or detached part
of any of the following zoning districts on the comprehensive amended zoning
map or subsequent amendments to said zoning map shall be as shown in the
following table. When a zoning district is directly across the street from or
abuts a district of the same or a less restrictive classification, the area of
the land directly across the street or abutting the property may be included in
the calculations in meeting the minimum requirements.
Zoning District Minimum Area
Zoning District                              Minimum Area
R-5 Three-Family Dwelling District           2 acres
R-6 Multiple-Family Dwelling District        2 acres
B-1 Planned Business Center District         5 acres
B-2 Business District, Limited Retail        1 acre
B-3 Commercial District, General Retail      4 acres
B-4 Business Services and Wholesale District 4 acres
M-1 Manufacturing District, Limited          4 acres
 
   (B)   Lots of record. Any single lot or parcel of land, held in one
ownership, which was of record on 12-11-1962, the time of adoption of the
“Revised Zoning Ordinance of Dolton”, that does not meet the requirements for
minimum lot width and area, may be utilized for a permitted use; provided that,
yards, courts or usable open space are not less than the minimum required
dimensions or areas.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1)
§ 158.008 BUILDING HEIGHT, BULK AND LOT COVERAGE.
   The district regulations hereinafter set forth in this subchapter qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in
this chapter.
   (A)   Building height.
      (1)   Public, semi-public or public service buildings, hospitals,
institutions or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a
height not exceeding 60 feet, and churches and temples may be erected to a
height not exceeding 75 feet if the building is set back from each rear line at
least one foot for each foot of additional building height above the height
limit otherwise provided in the district in which the building is located.
      (2)   Single-family and two-family dwellings may be increased in height
by not more than ten feet when the side and rear yards are increased over the
yard requirements of the district in which they are located by not less than
ten feet, but they shall not exceed three stories in height.
      (3)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
monuments, stacks, stage towers, scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental
towers and spires, church steeples, radio towers or necessary mechanical
appurtenances may be erected to a height in accordance with existing or
hereafter adopted ordinances of the village.
      (4)   Buildings near landing strips: no building exceeding two and one-
half stories or 35 feet shall be erected within 750 feet of any airport or
landing field.
   (B)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   Attached accessory buildings. Where an accessory building is
structurally attached to a main building, it shall be subject to and must
conform to all regulations of this chapter applicable to the main building.
      (2)   Location and lot coverage.
         (a)   An accessory building may not be located nearer to any interior
lot line than that permitted for the main building, when any part of the
accessory building is on line with the main building if extended; except when
an accessory building is located in the rear yard, it may then be located
within three feet of the interior lot line, but not nearer than five feet to
any alley abutting the rear or side lot line, nor shall any such accessory
building occupy more than 30% of the required rear yard. All detached accessory
buildings in R districts shall not be located nearer than ten feet from the
rear of the principal residential structure.
         (b)   No accessory building shall be located on a reversed corner lot
beyond the front yard required on the adjacent lot to the rear, nor be located
nearer than five feet to the side lot line of the adjacent lot.
         (c)   In any R district, where an accessory building has a driveway
entrance from the front of the lot only, the garage may be located within three
feet of an alley; provided that, this restriction shall not apply to a utility
easement along the rear of the lot. In no event, however, shall any accessory
building or any eave or roof or other projection of such a building project
into such easement area.
      (3)   Time of construction; use restricted. No accessory building shall
be constructed upon a lot until the construction of the main building has been
actually commenced, and no accessory building shall be used for dwelling
purposes.
   (C)   Open spaces; obstructions in required yards.
      (1)   Open spaces, off-street parking and loading spaces. No usable open
space or off-street parking space or loading space existing or provided
hereafter for any building shall be reduced below the minimum requirements
hereinafter set forth for such usable open space, parking space or loading
space, nor further reduced if already less than said minimum requirements.
      (2)   Yards open to the sky. Every part of a required yard shall be open
to the sky, unobstructed except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and
except for the ordinary projections of sills, belt courses, cornices and
ornamental features projecting not to exceed 12 inches.
      (3)   Fences.
         (a)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to erect any
fence in the village without obtaining a permit therefor.
         (b)   Application for permit; inspection. An application for the
permit required by division (C)(3)(a) above, accompanied by a sketch showing
the adjoining lot lines, existing fences and existing buildings, shall be made
to the Village Clerk and shall state the matters specified in this code. The
Village Clerk shall refer the application and sketch to the Building
Commissioner. The Building Commissioner shall examine the application and
sketch and premises in question and other premises in the immediate vicinity to
determine whether or not the fence intended to be erected conforms to the
standards and limitations set forth in this village code.
         (c)   Permit and inspection fees. The fee for a permit to construct or
erect a fence shall be $1. In addition thereto, an inspection fee of $1 shall
be paid at the time of filing application for permit for any fence constructed
pursuant to a variance from the limitations herein contained and allowed by the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
         (d)   Construction standards. Fences erected or constructed in the
village shall conform to the following standards:
            1.   Fences in which the openings between the materials of which
the fences are constructed represent less than 70% of the total surface may be
erected to a height not to exceed six feet from normal grade level;
            2.   Wire fences and other fences in which the openings between the
materials of which the fence is constructed represent more than 70% of the
total area may be erected to a height not to exceed six feet from normal grade
level;
            3.   No fences shall be erected or located in any front yard area.
No hedge or other growth may be erected or maintained in any front yard area or
on a corner lot within the required front or side yard space on the side street
within the required front yard space, except a hedge or other growth of not
more than 36 inches in height;
            4.   No fence, or anything similar, shall be located on a corner
lot within the required front or side yard space on the street sides of said
lot;
            5.   No fence, or anything similar, shall be erected or located
within 30 feet of a street intersection;
            6.   If a fence is erected to include a utility easement, such
fence may be required to be removed by either the utility company involved or
the village for the purpose of installing, maintaining or repairing a utility
without any responsibility on the part of either the utility company or the
village for damages or replacement;
            7.   In cases where the Building Commissioner is in doubt on any
special application as to the conformity with the village code, such
application shall be referred to the Zoning Board of Appeals to be heard as in
cases of variances;
            8.   This division (C)(3)(d) shall not require the removal of
fences that were in conformity with the prior ordinance in existence on the
date of the adoption hereof;
            9.   In cases where fences are inspected by a village official or
employee, such inspection shall not be a guarantee that the fence is properly
located on or adjacent to lot lines; and
            10.   Nothing herein contained shall abrogate fencing requirements
as may be contained in other ordinances or chapters of this code.
         (e)   Decorative fences. Decorative rod iron see through fence, and
decorative see through or non-see through gate, may be erected or maintained in
any front or rear yard area, within the required yard space if the total
combined square foot of the property exceeds 110,000 square feet and the height
of the fence does not exceed nine feet from the normal grade. The building
permit fees shall be based upon the cost of the job as established by the
village.
      (4)   Fire escapes, stairways, balconies and the like. Open or lattice
enclosed fire escapes, fire- proof outside stairways and balconies opening upon
fire towers, projecting into a rear yard not more than five feet and the
ordinary projections of chimneys and flues may be permitted by the
administrative officer.
      (5)   Porches and terraces.
         (a)   An open, unenclosed porch or paved terrace may project into a
front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet.
         (b)   An open terrace, but not including a roofed-over porch or
terrace, may occupy a front yard; provided, the unoccupied portion of the front
yard has a depth of not less than 15 feet.
         (c)   A one-story bay window may project into a front yard not more
than three feet.
         (d)   Overhanging eaves, including gutters, may project over the
minimum required side yard not more than two feet. In no event shall there be
less than four feet between the eave and the nearest projection of any
structure located on an adjacent lot.
   (D)   Determination of yard requirements.
      (1)   For the purpose of the side yard regulations, a two-family, a group
house or a multiple dwelling shall be considered as one building occupying one
lot.
      (2)   No space allocated to a building or dwelling group for the purpose
of complying with side, rear or front yard shall thereafter, by reason of
change in ownership or for any other reason, be used to satisfy the yard,
court, open space or lot area requirements of any other building or dwelling
group.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2) (Ord. passed 4-6-1976; Ord. passed 8-4-84; Ord. 92-184,
passed - -1992; Ord. 05-302, passed 9-19-2005; Ord. 05-304, passed 10-3-2005;
Ord. 07-395, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 158.009 BUILDINGS ON A ZONING LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide dwelling
units shall be located on a zoning lot, as herein defined, and in no case shall
there be more than one such building on one zoning lot.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-3)
§ 158.010 ACCESS TO PUBLIC STREET.
   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, every building shall be
constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of land which abuts upon a street
or permanent easement of access to a public street, which easement shall have a
minimum width of 33 feet unless an easement of lesser width was of record prior
to the adoption of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-4)
§ 158.011 GRADE RELATIONSHIP OF DWELLINGS.
   The ground floor elevation of residential structures shall be not less than
18 inches above the grade of the street, as defined in §
158.006 of this chapter, and said ground floor elevation shall not be more than
one foot higher or lower than the established change in elevation (slope)
between the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the frontage of the
adjacent lot and the centerline of the lot on which the proposed dwelling is to
be located.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-5)
§ 158.012 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Architectural design standards generally.
      (1)   All new buildings shall be of an architectural design suitable for
a good suburban community. No permit shall be issued for the construction of
any new building or for the improvement to an existing building which is of
such architectural design that the same is manifestly inferior or so radically
different as to impair the marketability or property values of existing
buildings in the same immediate vicinity.
         (a)   Free-standing buildings and buildings fronting on more than one
street shall have the same material or architecturally harmonious materials
used for all exterior walls.
         (b)   Buildings that are partially free-standing shall have the same
material or architecturally harmonious materials used for exposed exterior
walls and exposed portions of exterior walls.
         (c)   Single-family residences located adjacent to each other shall be
varied in design and shape as to avoid the appearance of being identical.
      (2)   No dwelling shall be constructed in any residential district with
the same or a comparatively similar outward architectural design within 200
feet of a dwelling already erected therein; provided, however, that, every
building shall be so designed and constructed as to be compatible with the
architectural design of dwellings in the area.
   (B)   Permits for single-family dwellings. All applicants for permits to
construct single-family residences shall certify to the Building Commissioner
the number of houses of the same design and shape as the plan being submitted
and now existing in the block in which the proposed residence is located, and
the Building Commissioner shall not issue a permit for the construction of such
residence if there are more than four such residences on either side of the
street in that block, or if located next to each other.
   (C)   Permit denials; appeals; action by village officials. In the event a
permit is denied to any applicant by reason of this section, he or she shall
have the right to appeal to the village’s Board of Trustees. Such appeal shall
be in writing and must be received by the Board at least seven days prior to
the next regular meeting. The Board of Trustees may refer any such appeal to
the Architectural Committee of the Plan Commission for recommendation to the
Village Board. The Board of Trustees may receive evidence from both the
applicant and the property owners in the vicinity of the proposed building.
After receiving and considering such recommendation and evidence, if the Board
of Trustees shall determine that the construction of the proposed building will
detrimentally affect values of adjoining or neighboring property, it shall
affirm the denial of the building permit. If, after such consideration, the
Board of Trustees shall determine that the proposed building will not
detrimentally affect values of adjoining neighboring properties, it shall
direct the Building Commissioner to issue a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-6)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAPS
§ 158.025 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this chapter, the
village is hereby divided into the following districts.
   (A)   Residential districts.
      (1)   R-1 One-Family Dwelling District;
      (2)   R-2 One-Family Dwelling District;
      (3)   R-3 One-Family Dwelling District;
      (4)   R-4 Two-Family Dwelling District;
      (5)   R-5 Three-Family Dwelling District; and
      (6)   R-6 Multiple-Family Dwelling District.
   (B)   Business districts.
      (1)   B-1 Planned Business Center District;
      (2)   B-2 Business District, Limited Retail;
      (3)   B-2A Business District, Restricted Retail;
      (4)   B-3 Commercial District, General Retail; and
      (5)   B-4 Business Services and Wholesale District.
   (C)   Manufacturing districts.
      (1)   M-1 Manufacturing District, Limited; and
      (2)   M-2 Manufacturing District, General.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-1)
§ 158.026 ZONING MAPS.
   The locations and boundaries of the districts established herein are shown
upon the zoning map which is hereby incorporated into this chapter. The zoning
map, together with all notations, references and other information shown
thereon and all amendments thereto, shall be a part of this chapter and shall
have the same force and effect as if the zoning map, together with all
notations, references and other information shown thereon were fully set forth
and described herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-2)
§ 158.027 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any use district, as
shown on the zoning maps incorporated herein, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as following streets,
alleys or similar rights-of-way, they shall be construed as following the
centerlines thereof.
   (B)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as approximately following
lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (C)   Where a lot held in one ownership and of record at the effective date
hereof is divided by a district boundary line, the entire lot shall be
construed to be within the less restricted district; provided that, this
construction shall not apply if it increases the area of the less restricted
portion of the lot by more than 20%.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-3)
§ 158.028 ZONING OF STREETS, ALLEYS, PUBLIC WAYS AND RAILROAD RIGHTS- OF-WAY.
   All streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights-of-way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets, public ways and
railroad rights-of-way. Where the centerline of a street, alley, public way or
railroad right-of-way serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such areas,
unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as
that of the abutting property up to such centerline.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-4)
§ 158.029 ZONING OF NEW OR ANNEXED LAND.
   Submerged land heretofore reclaimed, or which may be reclaimed hereafter,
and land heretofore annexed or which may be annexed to the village hereafter,
and which is not shown on the zoning map made a part hereof, shall be
classified in the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District until such time as the
village’s Board of Trustees designates the permitted use of the land in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-5)
§ 158.030 REZONING OF LAND FOR PUBLIC USE.
   An area indicated on the zoning map as a public park, recreation area,
public school site, cemetery or other similar open space shall not be used for
any other purpose than that designated; and when the use of the area is
discontinued, it shall automatically be zoned to the most restricted adjoining
district until appropriate zoning is authorized by the village’s Board of
Trustees within three months after the date of application filed for rezoning.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-6)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 158.045 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The residential districts set forth herein are established in order to
protect public health and promote public safety, convenience, comfort, morals,
prosperity and welfare.
   (B)   These general goals include, among others, the following specific
purposes:
      (1)   To protect residential areas against fire, explosion, noxious
fumes, offensive noise, smoke, vibrations, dust, odors, heat, glare and other
objectionable factors;
      (2)   To protect residential areas to the extent possible and appropriate
in each area against unduly heavy motor vehicle traffic, especially through
traffic, and to alleviate congestion by promoting off-street parking;
      (3)   To protect residential areas against undue congestion of public
streets and other public facilities by controlling the density of population
through regulation of the bulk of buildings;
      (4)   To protect and promote the public health and comfort by providing
for ample light and air to buildings and the windows thereof;
      (5)   To promote public comfort and welfare by providing for usable open
space on the same zoning lot with residential development;
      (6)   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations to meet the
probable need for future residential expansion and to meet the need for
necessary and desirable services in the vicinity of residences, which increase
safety and amenity for residents and which do not exert objectionable
influences; and
      (7)   To promote the best use and development of residential land in
accordance with a comprehensive land use plan, to promote stability of
residential development and protect the character and desirable development and
to protect the value of land and improvements and so strengthen the economic
base of the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-1)
§ 158.046 R-1 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this chapter, when referred to in this section, are the
district regulations in the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5A-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Accessory buildings, as defined herein and as regulated by §
158.008(B) of this chapter;
      (2)   Church or public building bulletin boards, in accordance with the
regulations of §§
158.140 through
158.145 of this chapter;
      (3)   Churches;
      (4)   Family community residences;
      (5)   Home occupations, as defined in §
158.006 of this chapter;
      (6)   Parks, playgrounds and community buildings owned or occupied by
public agencies;
      (7)   Public libraries;
      (8)   Public schools, elementary and high, and educational institutions
having a curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools;
      (9)   Public utility electric distribution center and gas pressure
regulating center;
      (10)   Single-family dwellings; and
      (11)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work,
which buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
(Prior Code, § 10-5A-2)
   (C)   Building height. The maximum height of buildings permitted shall be as
follows, except as provided in §
158.008(A) of this chapter:
      (1)   One-family detached dwellings: 35 feet and not over two and one-
half stories; and
      (2)   Church: 75 feet for towers or steeples, but not more than 45 feet
for the main structure.
(Prior Code, § 10-5A-3)
   (D)   Lot size.
      (1)   A one-family detached dwelling hereafter erected in the R-
1 District shall be on a zoning lot having an area of not less than 10,000
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than 75
feet, except as provided in §
158.179 of this chapter.
      (2)   Churches, convents and monasteries hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall conform to all regulations regarding buildings or
dwellings in the R-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5A-4)
   (E)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such building,
structure or enlargement.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a front
yard of not less than 30 feet. Where lots comprising 40% or more of the
frontage between two intersecting streets are developed with buildings having
front yards with a variation of more than 15 feet in depth, the average of such
front yards shall establish the minimum front yard depth for the entire
frontage. In no case shall a front yard of more than 60 feet be required.
         (b)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required yard shall not
be required on both sides.
         (c)   In the interest of sound community development, residences shall
be irregularly placed with their front facade offset within a distance of four
feet to the front or rear of the minimum front yard line or setback line in
accordance with the following schedule:
            1.   Not more than 50% of the residences with the front facade at
the minimum front yard line or setback line;
            2.   Not less than 25% of the residences at a distance of not more
than four feet in front of the minimum front yard line or setback line; and
            3.   Not less than 25% of the residences at a distance of not more
than four feet to the rear of the minimum front yard line or setback line.
         (d)   The offset arrangement of the buildings shall meet with the
approval of the Building Committee.
      (2)   Side yards. On each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed, there
shall be a side yard on each side equal to not less than 10% of the width of
the lot.
      (3)   Rear yard. Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than 30 feet.
(Prior Code, § 10-5A-5)
   (F)   Obstructions permitted within yards. The following shall not be
considered as obstructions when located within or over required yards:
      (1)   Terraces;
      (2)   Awnings;
      (3)   Stoops not over 12 inches in height and not extending more than
three feet from the exterior wall of the building (side yards only);
      (4)   Steps not over four feet in height (front and rear yards only);
      (5)   Arbors and trellises;
      (6)   Fences or walls not over four feet in height (rear or side yards
only);
      (7)   Breezeways and open porches (rear yards only); and
      (8)   Open parking areas.
(Prior Code, § 10-5A-6)
   (G)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected in an R-1 One-Family
Dwelling District shall have a total ground floor area of not less than 1,350
square feet measured from the outside of the exterior walls, including utility
rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and
other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended periods for
living, eating or sleeping purposes.
      (2)   Every dwelling of more than one story hereafter erected in any R-
1 One-Family Dwelling District shall have a total floor area, measured from the
outside of the exterior walls of not less than 1,650 square feet, including
utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways,
garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended
periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes; except that, enclosed space
intended for habitable rooms which are to be completed within a reasonable time
may be considered in computing such floor area.
(Prior Code, § 10-5A-7)
(Ord. 90-140, passed 12-18-1990; Ord. 92-184, passed - -1992)
§ 158.046 R-2 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this chapter, when referred to in this section, are the
district regulations in the R-2 One-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5B-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. The use regulations are the same as those in the R-
1 One-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5B-2)
   (C)   Building height. No building shall exceed 2% stories or 35 feet in
height, except as provided in §
158.008(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-5B-3)
   (D)   Lot size. A one-family detached dwelling hereafter erected in the R-
2 District shall be on a zoning lot having an area of not less than 6,000
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than 50
feet, except as provided in §
158.179 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-5B-4)
   (E)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such building,
structure or enlargement.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, unless 40% or more of the frontage on the same side of the street between
two intersecting streets is improved with buildings that have observed a front
yard line with a greater or lesser depth and the front yards of such buildings
have a variation in depth of not more than ten feet, in which case no building
shall project beyond the average front yard line so established, but this
regulation shall not be interpreted to require a front yard of more than 60
feet.
         (b)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall
be provided on both streets.
         (c)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
streets, there shall be a front yard on each side of a corner lot; except that,
the building width of such lot shall not be reduced to less than 32 feet. No
accessory building shall project beyond the front yard line on either street.
         (d)   In the interest of sound community development, residences shall
be irregularly placed with their front facade offset within a distance of four
feet to the front or rear of the minimum front yard line or setback line in
accordance with the following schedule:
            1.   Not more than 50% of the residences with the front facade at
the minimum front yard line or setback line;
            2.   Not less than 25% of the residences at a distance of not more
than four feet in front of the minimum front yard line or setback line; and
            3.   Not less than 25% of the residences at a distance of not more
than four feet to the rear of the minimum front yard line or setback line.
         (e)   The offset arrangement of the buildings shall meet with the
approval of the Building Committee.
      (2)   Side yards. Except as provided in §
158.179 of this chapter, there shall be a side yard having a width of not less
than five feet on each side of a building.
      (3)   Rear yard. Except as provided in §
158.179 of this chapter, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less
than 30 feet or 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
      (4)   Transitional areas. The provisions regarding yard requirements
shall not apply to buildings that have been in existence for 20 years prior to
1978 or to buildings that have subsequently replaced an original building.
(Prior Code, § 10-5B-5)
   (F)   Obstructions permitted within yards. The obstructions over required
yards shall be the same as those permitted in §
158.046(F) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-5B-6)
   (G)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected in an R-2 One-Family
Dwelling District shall have a total ground floor area of not less than 1,200
square feet measured from the outside of the exterior walls, including utility
rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and
other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended periods for
living, eating or sleeping purposes.
      (2)   Every dwelling of more than one story hereafter erected in any R-
2 One-Family Dwelling District shall have a total floor area, measured from the
outside of the exterior walls, of not less than 1,500 square feet, including
utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways,
garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended
periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes; except that, enclosed space
intended for habitable rooms which are to be completed within a reasonable time
may be considered in computing such floor areas.
(Prior Code, § 10-5B-7)
§ 158.048 R-3 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this chapter, when referred to in this section, are the
district regulations in the R-3 One-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5C-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. The use regulations are the same as those in the R-
1 One-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5C-2)
   (C)   Building height. No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or
35 feet in height, except as provided in §
158.008(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-5C-3)
   (D)   Lot size. A one-family detached dwelling hereafter erected in the R-
3 District shall be on a zoning lot having an area of not less than 4,800
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than 40
feet, except as provided in §
158.179 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-5C-4)
   (E)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such building,
structure or enlargement.
      (1)   Front yard. The front yard regulations are the same as those in the
R-2 One-Family Dwelling District.
      (2)   Side yards. Except as provided in §
158.179 of this chapter, there shall be a side yard having a width of not less
than four feet on each side of a building.
      (3)   Rear yard. The rear yard regulations are the same as those in the
R-2 One-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5C-5)
   (F)   Obstructions permitted within yards. The obstructions over required
yards shall be the same as those permitted in §
158.046(F) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-5C-6)
   (G)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected in any R-3 One-Family
Dwelling District shall have a total ground floor area of not less than 1,050
square feet measured from the outside of the exterior walls, including utility
rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and
other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended periods for
living, eating or sleeping purposes.
      (2)   Every dwelling of more than one story hereafter erected in any R-
3 One-Family Dwelling District shall have a total floor area, measured from the
outside of the exterior walls, of not less than 1,350 square feet, including
utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways,
garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended
periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes; except that, enclosed space
intended for habitable rooms which are to be completed within a reasonable time
may be considered in computing such floor areas.
(Prior Code, § 10-5C-7)
§ 158.049 R-4 TWO-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this chapter, when referred to in this section, are the
district regulations in the R-4 Two-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5D-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District; and
      (2)   Two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 10-5D-2)
   (C)   Building height. The same regulations shall apply as permitted in the
R-1 One-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5D-3)
   (D)   Lot size.
      (1)   One-family dwellings. The same regulations shall apply as permitted
in the R-3 One-Family Dwelling District.
      (2)   Two-family dwellings. Every two-family dwelling hereafter erected
or structurally altered shall be on a zoning lot having an area of not less
than 6,000 square feet and a width at the building line of not less than 50
feet, except as provided in §
158.179 of this chapter.
      (3)   Converted dwellings. An existing one-family dwelling located on a
lot of less area than required in this section may be converted to a two-family
dwelling without increasing the lot size; provided that, the building is not
enlarged beyond its present outside dimensions and that all other regulations
of this chapter are complied with. Additions may be made to an existing
building only when lot size and yard requirements of this section can be
complied with.
      (4)   Churches, convents and monasteries. The same regulations shall
apply as required in the R-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5D-4)
   (E)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such building,
structure or enlargement.
      (1)   Front yard. The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-
3 District.
      (2)   Side yards.
         (a)   One-family detached dwellings. The same regulations shall apply
as required in the R-3 District.
         (b)   Two-family dwellings. The same regulations shall apply as
required in the R-2 District.
         (c)   Converted dwellings. An existing one-family dwelling located on
a lot having side yards of less width than required herein may be converted to
a two-family dwelling; provided that, the building is not enlarged beyond its
present outside dimensions.
      (3)   Rear yard. Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than 20 feet.
(Prior Code, § 10-5D-5)
   (F)   Obstructions permitted within yards. The same regulations shall apply
as required in the R-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5D-6)
   (G)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   One-family detached dwellings.
         (a)   One-family detached dwellings shall have a total ground floor
area of not less than 1,050 square feet measured from the outside of the
exterior walls, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open
porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or
during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes.
         (b)   Every dwelling of more than one story hereafter erected in any
R-4 Two-Family Dwelling District shall have a total floor area, measured from
the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than 1,350 square feet,
including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches,
breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or during
extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes; except that, enclosed
space intended for habitable rooms which are to be completed within a
reasonable time may be considered in computing such floor areas.
      (2)   Two-family dwellings. Two-family dwelling structures shall have a
minimum floor area per dwelling unit of not less than 900 square feet of floor
space measured from the outside of the exterior walls, including utility rooms,
but excluding all other areas not used for living or sleeping purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10-5D-7)
§ 158.050 R-5 THREE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this chapter, when referred to in this section, are the
district regulations in the R-5 Three-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5E-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings; and
      (3)   Three-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 10-5E-2)
   (C)   Building height. The same regulations shall apply as permitted in the
R-1 One-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5E-3)
   (D)   Lot size.
      (1)   One-family dwellings. The same regulations shall apply as permitted
in the R-3 One-Family Dwelling District.
      (2)   Two-family dwellings. Every two-family dwelling hereafter erected
or structurally altered shall be on a zoning lot having an area of not less
than 6,000 square feet and a width at the building line of not less than 50
feet, except as provided in §
158.179 of this chapter.
      (3)   Three-family dwellings. Every three-family dwelling hereafter
erected or structurally altered shall be on a zoning lot having an area of not
less than 7,500 square feet and a width at the building line of not less than
60 feet, except as provided in §
158.179 of this chapter.
      (4)   Converted dwellings. An existing one-family dwelling located on a
lot of less area than required in this section may be converted to a three-
family dwelling without increasing the lot size; provided that, the building is
not enlarged beyond its present outside dimensions and that all other
regulations of this chapter are complied with. Additions may be made to an
existing building only when lot size and yard requirements of this section can
be complied with.
      (5)   Churches, convents and monasteries. The same regulations shall
apply as required in the R-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5E-4)
   (E)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such building,
structure or enlargement.
      (1)   Front yard. The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-
3 District.
      (2)   Side yards.
         (a)   One-family detached dwellings. The same regulations shall apply
as required in the R-3 District.
         (b)   Two-family dwellings. The same regulations shall apply as
required in the R-2 District.
         (c)   Three-family dwellings. The same regulations shall apply as
required in the R-2 District.
         (d)   Converted dwellings. An existing one-family dwelling located on
a lot having side yards of less width than required herein may be converted to
a two-family dwelling; provided that, the building is not enlarged beyond its
present outside dimensions.
      (3)   Rear yard. Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than 20 feet.
(Prior Code, § 10-5E-5)
   (F)   Obstructions permitted within yards. The same regulations shall apply
as required in the R-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5E-6)
   (G)   Dwelling standards. Each dwelling unit hereafter erected, converted or
reconstructed in any R-5 District shall contain floor areas in compliance with
the following:
      (1)   One-family detached dwellings.
         (a)   One-family detached dwellings shall have a total ground floor
area of not less than 1,050 square feet measured from the outside of the
exterior walls, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open
porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or
during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes.
         (b)   Every dwelling of more than one story hereafter erected in any
R-5 Three-Family Dwelling District shall have a total floor area, measured from
the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than 1,350 square feet,
including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches,
breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or during
extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes; except that, enclosed
space intended for habitable rooms which are to be completed within a
reasonable time may be considered in computing such floor areas.
      (2)   Two-family dwellings. Two-family dwelling structures shall have a
minimum floor area per dwelling unit of not less than 900 square feet of floor
space measured from the outside of the exterior walls, including utility rooms,
but excluding all other areas not used for living or sleeping purposes. Common
areas or rooms used in common shall not be counted in any way in determining
minimum floor space.
      (3)   Three-family dwellings.
         (a)   Minimum floor area. Three-family dwellings shall require the
following minimum floor area per unit.
            1.   Garden apartment, which may be 18 inches below grade, shall be
restricted to a one-bedroom unit with a minimum square foot dwelling area of
750 square feet. Such apartment must be equipped with an adequate ejector
system. A common utility room may be provided in the garden apartment, but no
part of the common areas shall be counted as part of the minimum dwelling area
requirement.
            2.   All apartments above grade shall require the minimum floor
area of 900 square feet. The 900 square foot figure shall be restricted to two-
bedroom units. In the event a three-bedroom unit is planned, the minimum floor
area requirement shall be 1,000 square feet. In the event no garden apartment
is planned and all apartments are above grade, the minimum dwelling area per
unit shall be 900 square feet.
            3.   All measurements shall be measured from the interior walls,
including utility rooms located within the interior walls of said unit, but
excluding all other areas not used for living purposes such as cellars,
basements and open porches. Common areas or rooms used in common with other
tenants shall in no way be included within the minimum floor area requirements.
Storage areas outside the dwelling unit are not to be considered in determining
the minimum floor area requirements.
         (b)   Construction standards. All three-family dwellings shall comply
with §
158.051(I) of this chapter and with all construction standards of multiple-
family dwellings required by the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 10-5E-7)
§ 158.051 R-6 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this chapter, when referred to in this section, are the
district regulations in the R-6 Multiple-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5F-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-1 to R-5 Districts, inclusive;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings, as defined in §
158.006 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Planned Senior/Elderly Family Dwelling District, as defined in and
provided for in §
158.052 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-5F-2)
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may also be permitted if their site
locations and proposed development plans are first approved, as provided in §§
158.175 through
158.179 of this chapter:
      (1)   Any conditional use permitted in the R-1 One-Family Dwelling
District;
      (2)   Boarding and lodging houses;
      (3)   Day school or nursery school;
      (4)   Hospitals (but not including animal hospitals), convalescent homes,
rest homes and nursing homes; and
      (5)   Private club, fraternity or sorority house.
(Prior Code, § 10-5F-3)
   (D)   Building height. The same regulations shall apply as permitted in the
R-1 One-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5F-4)
   (E)   Minimum lot size.
      (1)   One-family detached dwellings. Every one-family detached dwelling
hereafter erected in this district shall be on a zoning lot having a minimum
area of not less than 4,800 square feet, and a minimum width of not less than
40 feet at the building line; provided that, a lot of record on the effective
date hereof, which has less area and width than herein required and was
recorded under separate ownership from adjoining lots, may be improved with a
one-family detached dwelling if all other requirements of this chapter are met.
      (2)   Two-family dwellings. Every two-family dwelling hereafter erected
or structurally altered shall be on a zoning lot having an area of not less
than 6,000 square feet and a width at the building line of not less than 50
feet at the building line; provided that, where a lot has less width than
herein required and was recorded under separate ownership from adjoining lots
prior to the effective date hereof, such lot may be occupied by a two-family
dwelling, but in no case shall the lot area per dwelling unit be less than
2,500 square feet.
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings and apartments.
         (a)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered as a
multiple-family dwelling or apartment of more than two dwelling units shall
provide a lot area per dwelling unit of not less than 2,100 square feet.
         (b)   No building hereafter erected or structurally altered in the R-
6 Multiple-Family Dwelling District shall have a total lot area of less than
8,400 square feet or a lot width of less than 60 feet at the building line.
      (4)   Planned developments. Minimum lot sizes for planned developments
shall be prescribed by the Zoning Board of Appeals with the approval of the
village’s Board of Trustees at the time a conditional use is authorized.
(Prior Code, § 10-5F-5)
   (F)   Maximum building coverage and units per structure. The maximum
building coverage on a zoning lot shall not exceed 40%. No more than six
dwelling units shall be included in one apartment building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 10-5F-6)
   (G)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Minimum front yard.
         (a)   On every zoning lot, a front yard shall be provided of not less
than 25 feet. However, where lots comprising 40% or more of all frontage on the
same street and within the same block are developed with buildings having front
yards with a variation of not more than ten feet in depth, the average of such
front yards shall establish the minimum front yard depth for the entire
frontage on such street within the same block, but in no case shall a front
yard of more than 40 feet be required.
         (b)   For buildings exceeding 25 feet in height, the minimum front
yard determined in division (G)(1)(a) above shall be increased by one foot for
each two feet or fraction thereof by which the building height exceeds 25 feet,
but in no case shall a front yard of more than 40 feet be required.
         (c)   Required front yards shall be unobstructed from ground level to
sky, except as otherwise provided in §§
158.175 through
158.179 of this chapter.
      (2)   Minimum side yards. On every zoning lot, side yards shall be
provided as follows.
         (a)   For one-family detached dwellings, two-family and multiple-
dwellings of two stories or less, the same regulations shall apply as in the R-
2 One-Family Dwelling District.
         (b)   For two-, three- and multiple-family dwelling units of more than
two stories in height, the side yard on each side of the main building shall be
increased two feet in width for each additional story added. On corner lots,
there shall be maintained a side yard of not less than 15 feet on the side
adjacent to the street which intersects the street upon which the building
maintains frontage, and in the case of a reversed corner lot there shall be
maintained a setback from the side street of not less than 50% of the front
yard required on the lots in the rear of such corner lots, but such setback
need not exceed 15 feet. No accessory building on said reversed corner lot
shall project beyond the front yard required on the adjacent lot to the rear,
nor be located nearer than five feet to the side lot line of said adjacent
lots.
         (c)   On a lot improved with a non-residential building, there shall
be a side yard of not less than 12 feet on each side of the main structure and
a combined total of side yards of not less than 30 feet.
      (3)   Minimum rear yard.
         (a)   On every zoning lot upon which a building is constructed, there
shall be a rear yard of not less than 25 feet.
         (b)   Required rear yards shall be unobstructed from ground level to
the sky, except as otherwise provided in §§
158.175 through
158.179 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-5F-7)
   (H)   Obstructions permitted within yards. The obstructions over required
yards shall be the same as these permitted in the R-1 One-Family Dwelling
District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5F-8)
   (I)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   Minimum floor area.
         (a)   Single- and two-family dwellings. The minimum floor area
requirements for single-family and two-family dwellings shall be those required
in the R-4 Two-Family Dwelling District.
         (b)   Multiple-family dwellings. The multiple-family dwellings shall
require the following minimum floor areas per unit as well as the following
minimum room sizes.
            1.   One-bedroom units.
               a.   One-bedroom apartment units shall require a minimum floor
area of 750 square feet per unit measured from the interior walls, including
utility rooms located within the interior walls of said unit, but excluding all
other areas not used for living or sleeping purposes (cellars, basements, open
porches). Common areas or rooms used in common with other tenants shall in no
way be included within the minimum floor area requirements. Storage areas
outside of the dwelling unit are not to be considered in determining the
minimum floor area requirements. The rooms within said dwelling unit shall have
the following minimum sizes:
 
Bathroom    50 square feet
Bedroom     150 square feet
Dining area 90 square feet
(However, if used as a kitchen dinette area, then the combined area must have
a minimum of 200 square feet)
Kitchen     100 square feet
Living room 200 square feet
(However, if used as a living-dining combination, the 2 rooms must have
minimum square footage of 300 square feet)
 
               b.   The partitions, closets and hallways within the dwelling
unit shall constitute the other necessary square footage to meet the minimum
requirements.
            2.   Two-bedroom units. Two-bedroom apartment units shall require a
minimum floor area of 975 square feet per unit. The same standards of
measurement and the same minimum room sizes as set forth in division (I)(1)
(b)1. above concerning one-bedroom units shall apply.
            3.   Three-bedroom units.
               a.   Three-bedroom apartment units shall require a minimum floor
area of 1,175 square feet per unit.
               b.   The three-bedroom unit shall require an additional toilet
facility in addition to the one toilet facility.
               c.   The same standards of measurement and the same minimum room
sizes as set forth in division (I)(1)(b)2. above concerning one-bedroom units
shall apply.
      (2)   Construction standards.
         (a)   All multiple-family dwelling structures shall be of solid
masonry construction with face brick on all sides of the structure.
         (b)   Decorative stone or brick may be used where appropriate.
         (c)   The structures shall in all other respects comply with the
Building Code of the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-5F-9)
(Ord. 07-388, passed 3-26-2007)
§ 158.052 R-7 PLANNED SENIOR/ELDERLY FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this chapter, when referred to in this section, are the
district regulations in the R-7 Senior/Elderly Family Dwelling District.
   (B)   Special residence district.
      (1)   Permitted uses. Multiple-unit residences, commonly referred to as
senior/elderly housing and accessory uses, including, but not limited to,
chapels, dining halls, craft and game rooms, professional facilities (doctor,
nurse, dentist) therapist, barber and beauty shops and convenience marts, each
of said accessory uses being for the primary use of the residents of the
senior/elderly complex and as special use any special use permitted in the R-
4 and R-5 General Residence District, by compliance with its applicable
district regulations.
      (2)   Lot size requirements.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Forty thousand square feet.
         (b)   Square feet per building. All structures containing three or
more dwelling units shall provide a minimum area per dwelling as follows:
 
1 bedroom  1,000 sq. ft.
2 bedrooms 1,500 sq. ft.
Any room other than a kitchen, bath, dining or living room shall be considered
as a bedroom for purposes of determining the above requirements for lot area
per dwelling unit.
 
      (3)   Bulk regulations.
         (a)   Yard requirements.
            1.   Minimum front yard. Thirty feet; however for buildings in
excess of 30 feet in height, the front yard shall be increased six inches for
each foot the building exceeds 30 feet to a maximum front yard requirement of
35 feet.
            2.   Minimum side yards. Ten feet for interior side yards and 30
feet for corner side yard.
            3.   Minimum rear yard. Fifteen feet.
            4.   Maximum floor area ratio. 1:50.
         (b)   Maximum height of buildings and structures. Seventy-five feet.
      (4)   Density. Maximum 75 dwelling units per gross one acre.
      (5)   Dwelling standards. Every senior/elderly dwelling shall have a
minimum floor area per dwelling unit, measured from the outside of the exterior
walls, excluding utility rooms, cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways,
garages and other spaces not used during extended periods for living, eating or
sleeping purposes as follows:
 
Dwelling units with 2 bedrooms 700 sq. ft.
Dwelling units with 1 bedroom  540 sq. ft.
 
      (6)   Parking standards. One parking space shall be provided for each
three dwelling units, plus one parking space for each employee assigned to the
complex.
      (7)   Minimum contiguous area. The minimum contiguous area for land zoned
for this use shall be one and one-half acres.
      (8)   Use limitations.
         (a)   Within a senior/elderly complex planned for the use herein
described, provision may be made for barber and beauty shops, gift shops,
commissary-type operations and like amenities for the residents housed therein.
The total square footage of such facilities shall be subtracted from the gross,
area of the complex prior to computing densities.
         (b)   No zoning district hereafter established for this use shall be
altered, modified or enlarged so as to conflict with the regulations outlined
herein.
(Ord. 92-199, passed 12-8-1992)
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
§ 158.065 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The business districts set forth herein are established to protect
public health, to promote public safety, comfort, convenience and the general
welfare, and to protect the economic base of the village and the value of
property.
   (B)   These general purposes include, among others, the following specific
objectives:
      (1)   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a well
considered plan so that adequate space is provided in appropriate locations for
the various types of business uses, thereby protecting and strengthening the
economic base of the village;
      (2)   To place in separate districts those businesses which may create
noise, odors, hazards, unsightliness or which may generate excessive traffic;
      (3)   To permit selected business uses in districts where adjacency to or
inclusion in a residential area has sufficient elements of service or
convenience to such areas to offset the disadvantage;
      (4)   To encourage the grouping in appropriate locations of compatible
business uses which will tend to draw trade that is mutually interchangeable
and so promote public convenience and business prosperity and contribute to the
alleviation of traffic and pedestrian congestion; and
      (5)   To promote for the establishment of off-street parking facilities,
permitted and required, so as to alleviate traffic congestion and so promote
shopping convenience and business prosperity.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-1)
§ 158.066 MERCHANDISE LOADING AND UNLOADING; EXTERNAL LIGHTING RESTRICTIONS.
   Whenever a building is located in a business district and said building is
within 150 feet of any residential district, the following regulations shall
apply.
   (A)   Restrictions on loading or unloading merchandise.
      (1)   There shall be no deliveries or shipments of incoming merchandise
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   There shall be no trucks or automobiles left standing with the
engines or equipment engines running between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m.
   (B)   External lighting. All external lighting shall be effectively shielded
as to not project onto any portion of the residential district.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-2)
§ 158.067 OUTDOOR REFUSE STORAGE.
   Whenever a building in any business district uses an outside storage for
placement of garbage and debris, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Refuse containers. The container used for the storage of the garbage
shall be of a type approved by the village’s Superintendent of Public Works.
   (B)   Container storage area.
      (1)   The containers shall be stored in a suitable area and completely
enclosed by a solid fence eight feet in height.
      (2)   There shall be provided a gate with a lock that shall be locked at
all times.
      (3)   There also shall be a suitable covering placed upon the top of said
enclosure.
      (4)   The said enclosure shall be first approved by the Building
Commissioner of the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-3) (Ord. passed 6-1-1976)
§ 158.068 B-1 PLANNED BUSINESS CENTER DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this chapter when referred to in this section are the
district regulations in the B-1 Planned Business Center District.
(Prior Code, § 10-6A-1)
   (B)   Special use; lot size and location. A building or premises shall be
used only for a planned business center, but only on tracts of land of not less
than five acres abutting and contiguous to a highway containing four or more
traffic lanes, and only by special permit issued by the Board of Trustees upon
application to said Board in the following manner.
      (1)   Tentative development plan.
         (a)   Submission of plan; contents. At the time application for a
special permit is made, the applicant shall submit to the Board of Trustees a
tentative development plan for the proposed use and development of the tract of
land as a planned business center. Such tentative development plan shall
include the following:
            1.   A tentative site plan indicating the areas to be developed for
buildings, the anticipated total gross floor space, the areas to be developed
for parking, the points of ingress and egress, including access streets where
required, and the adjustments to be made in relation to abutting land uses and
zoning districts;
            2.   A traffic survey prepared by a traffic consultant setting
forth and analyzing the effects of the proposed planned business center upon
traffic in and outside of the village, and such survey shall not be limited to
the effect on adjacent streets, but shall extend to all of the surrounding
areas affected and shall indicate the anticipated points of origin, the
direction, amount and density of traffic flow to and from the proposed planned
business center;
            3.   An architect’s preliminary sketches of the proposed planned
business center; and
            4.   A tentative statement of the types of business and uses
proposed and the market area proposed to be served.
         (b)   Plan Commission review and recommendations. Upon receipt of the
application for special permit and the tentative development plan as aforesaid,
the Board of Trustees shall refer a copy of the application and tentative
development plan to the Plan Commission for a study and report thereon. The
Plan Commission’s report to the Board of Trustees shall be made within 30 days
from the date of the reference to the Plan Commission. In its report, the Plan
Commission shall make such recommendations as it considers desirable and in the
public interest.
         (c)   Action by Village Board. Upon receipt of the report of the Plan
Commission, the Board of Trustees may approve or disapprove the tentative
development plan and shall proceed to issue or deny a special permit in
accordance with the provisions of this section; provided that, any special
permit issued hereunder shall be strictly conditioned upon the submission,
within 24 months from the date of its issuance, of a final development plan
conforming as nearly as practicable to the tentative development plan as
approved.
      (2)   Final development plan.
         (a)   Submission of plan; contents. Within 24 months from the date the
special permit was first issued, the permittee shall submit a final development
plan to the Board of Trustees which shall conform as nearly as practicable to
the tentative development plan, as approved, and the special permit issued
hereunder. The final development plan shall include:
            1.   A site plan defining the areas to be developed for buildings,
the areas to be developed for parking, the location of pedestrian and vehicular
circulation and the points of ingress and egress, including access streets
where required, the location and height of walls, the provisions for loading
and unloading, the location, size and number of signs and the location and type
of improvements to be made in relation to abutting land uses and zoning
districts;
            2.   A recent traffic survey prepared by a traffic consultant
setting forth and analyzing the effects of the proposed planned business center
upon traffic in and outside of the village, and such survey shall not be
limited to the effect on adjacent streets, but shall extend to all of the
surrounding areas affected and shall indicate the anticipated points of origin,
the direction, amount and density of traffic flow to and from the proposed
planned business center;
            3.   Preliminary engineering plans of the improvements to be
installed;
            4.   Architect’s sketches of the proposed buildings and
landscaping;
            5.   A schedule of construction, including the anticipated
completion date;
            6.   A statement of all the ownership and beneficial interests in
the proposed planned business center; and
            7.   A statement of the types of businesses and uses proposed, the
general market area proposed to be served and such information as may be
available concerning anticipated lessees and tenants.
         (b)   Action by Village Board. If the final development plan conforms
as nearly as practicable to the tentative development plan, as provided herein,
and to the requirements and conditions of the special permit and to the
requirements and conditions of this chapter, the Board of Trustees may approve
said final development plan and direct the Building Commissioner to issue a
building permit or permits upon submission to him of building plans and
specifications.
         (c)   Changes in final development plan. From time to time, the
permittee may make changes in the final development plans submitted herein, but
any such changes shall be made only with the approval of the Building
Commissioner, or, upon his or her denial thereof, with the approval of the
Board of Trustees. The special permit issued shall be changed to reflect such
approved changes.
      (3)   Time schedules for construction.
         (a)   All time schedules and computations of time shall be computed
from and relate back to the date the special permit was first issued. The Board
of Trustees may extend any time limit provided or required herein or in any
special permit issued hereunder; provided that, each such extension may not
exceed 12 months.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees, at any time, may request written reports
on the progress and development of the proposed planned business center.
         (c)   If the Board of Trustees is satisfied that the permittee has
abandoned the development of the proposed planned business center, it shall
hold a public hearing for the purpose of considering the revocation of all
permits issued and action taken hereunder. Written notice of said hearing shall
be sent to the permittee at the business address stated in the application or
special permit. Publication of said hearing shall also be given in accordance
with the provisions of §
158.193 of this chapter.
         (d)   If the Board of Trustees finds that the permittee has abandoned
the development of the proposed planned business center, it may then revoke all
permits issued and action taken hereunder.
      (4)   Compliance with permit provisions and other village regulations;
guarantee of performance. No building permit shall be issued hereunder contrary
to the provisions of the village’s Building Code and all other ordinances,
rules and regulations of the village or as the same may be amended from time to
time. The use and development of the tract of land as a planned business center
shall conform at all times, as nearly as practicable, to the special permit
issued therefor and to the final development plan as finally approved, and no
building permit, certificate of occupancy or other permit shall be issued
unless the building or improvement requested so conforms to the special permit
issued hereunder and the final development plan as finally approved hereunder,
and an adequate agreement, contract and bond has been deposited with the
Village Clerk to guarantee the installation of the requisite water, sewer,
street paving, curbs and gutters, alley paving, sidewalks, street signs and
street lighting facilities.
(Prior Code, § 10-6A-2)
   (C)   Minimum requirements and standards. A planned business center shall
meet the following minimum requirements and standards.
      (1)   Building height. No building or other structure shall exceed three
stories in height (excluding basements), nor exceed 45 feet in height above
grade; provided that, an exception may be made for elevator penthouses, water
towers and decorative building projections.
      (2)   Location restrictions. No building or structure shall be erected or
maintained within 50 feet of any residential boundary line or within 50 feet of
the right-of-way of any arterial highway containing four or more paved traffic
lanes, and no roadway or parking area shall be erected or maintained within 15
feet of the outside edge of the nearest paved traffic lane or any arterial
highway containing four or more paved traffic lanes.
      (3)   Design standards.
         (a)   Generally. A planned business center shall be laid out and
developed as a unit in accordance with an integrated overall design. The
location and arrangement of buildings, parking areas, walks, lighting and
appurtenant facilities shall be adjusted to the surrounding land uses, and any
part of a planned business center not used for buildings, other structures,
parking and loading areas, or accessways shall be landscaped with grass, trees,
shrubs or pedestrian walks.
         (b)   Buffer strips. A buffer strip of not less than 25 feet wide
shall be provided along any residential boundary line abutting or adjoining any
boundary line of the planned business center. Such buffer strip shall be
sodded, planted and shrubbed in such a manner as to form a green area.
      (4)   Off-street parking and loading requirements.
         (a)   Off-street parking spaces.
            1.   There shall be provided not less than six off-street parking
spaces for customers per 1,000 square feet of gross floor space.
            2.   There shall be provided, in addition to any off-street parking
spaces for customers, adequate off-street parking areas for employees.
         (b)   Off-street loading berths. There shall be provided adequate off-
street berths and areas for loading and unloading.
         (c)   Lighting requirements. All off-street parking and loading areas
shall be properly lighted in accordance with sound planning and engineering
practices.
         (d)   Construction specifications. All parking lots and perimeter
roads and loading areas shall have a base course of stone, crushed gravel or
slag, bladed and rolled over subgrades and shall be topped with asphaltic
concrete or bituminous topping.
      (5)   Signs.
         (a)   Signs may be attached to one or more facades, but not to or on
the roof of any building, and the top edges of such signs shall not project
over the roof line or parapet wall line of the building to which they are
attached.
         (b)   Signs, other than directional signs, shall be limited to
advertising the name of the store, its merchandise or services or the planned
business center as a whole.
         (c)   The provisions of any ordinance regulating the erection or
maintenance of signs shall apply, except as modified herein.
      (6)   Lighting restrictions. All primary light sources illuminating the
buildings and planned business center area shall be erected and maintained in
accordance with good lighting engineering practices and shall be so placed,
designed and used that neither the direct nor reflected light therefrom will
adversely affect surrounding property or create a traffic hazard.
      (7)   Use restrictions.
         (a)   Residential uses prohibited. No building shall be used as a
residence; provided that, facilities for a paid custodian, caretaker or
watchman for the premises may be provided.
         (b)   Storage or display of merchandise. No merchandise, material or
equipment shall be stored or displayed for sale in any open areas unless
specifically permitted by the Village President and Board of Trustees, after a
public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals as provided in §
158.194 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-6A-3)
§ 158.069 B-2 LIMITED RETAIL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this chapter when referred to in this section are the
district regulations in the B-2 Business District, Limited Retail.
(Prior Code, § 10-6B-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, structurally altered or enlarged unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, except for the following uses:
      (1)   Limited retail business uses, designated with an asterisk (*),
shall not be located on the ground floor within 50 feet of any street;
      (2)   Retail and service uses as follows:
         (a)   Air conditioning and heating sales and service;
         (b)   Art and school supply stores;
         (c)   Automotive gasoline station;
         (d)   Automotive service station;
         (e)   Any other similar type of retail store or service establishment
not specifically permitted herein, but which has economic compatibility with
the established uses on adjoining premises;
         (f)   Art galleries*;
         (g)   Auction rooms;
         (h)   Banks and financial institutions;
         (i)   Bakery shops, including baking on premises for retail use only;
         (j)   Barber shops;
         (k)   Beauty shops;
         (l)   Book or stationery stores;
         (m)   Camera and photographic supply stores;
         (n)   Candy and ice cream shops;
         (o)   Carpet, rug and linoleum stores;
         (p)   China and glassware stores;
         (q)   Chiropody, massage or similar personal service shops;
         (r)   Clothes pressing establishments;
         (s)   Coin and philatelic stores;
         (t)   Currency exchanges;
         (u)   Custom dressmaking and millinery shops;
         (v)   Department stores;
         (w)   Drugstores;
         (x)   Dry cleaning and laundry receiving stations, processing to be
done elsewhere;
         (y)   Dry goods or notion stores;
         (z)   Electrical and household appliance stores, including radio and
television sales;
         (aa)   Florist shops and conservatories;
         (bb)   Food stores - grocery stores, meat markets, bakeries, candy and
ice cream shops, delicatessens and frozen food stores, including locker rental
in conjunction therewith;
         (cc)   Furniture stores, including upholstering when conducted as part
of the retail operations and secondary to the principal use;
         (dd)   Furrier shops, including the incidental storage and
conditioning of furs;
         (ee)   Garden supply and seed stores;
         (ff)   Gift shops;
         (gg)   Haberdasheries;
         (hh)   Hardware stores;
         (ii)   Hobby shops, for retail of items to be assembled or used away
from the premises;
         (jj)   Household appliance stores;
         (kk)   Interior decorating shops, including upholstering and making of
draperies, slip covers and other similar articles, when conducted as part of
the retail operations and secondary to the principal use;
         (ll)   Jewelry stores, including watch repair;
         (mm)   Laundries, automatic, self-service type or hand; provided that,
laundry machines shall not exceed ten pounds’ capacity each;
         (nn)   Leather goods and luggage stores;
         (oo)   Liquor stores, package goods only;
         (pp)   Loan offices;
         (qq)   Locksmith shops;
         (rr)   Medical and dental clinics;
         (ss)   Musical instrument stores, including minor repair;
         (tt)   Office supply stores;
         (uu)   Optician shops;
         (vv)   Paint and wallpaper stores;
         (ww)   Photographers;
         (xx)   Public utility collection offices;
         (yy)   Residential storage warehouse;
         (zz)   Restaurants, tearooms or cafés (excluding drive-in or curb
service, dancing or entertainment);
         (aaa)   Savings and loan associations;
         (bbb)   Schools - music, dance or business;
         (ccc)   Sewing machine stores, household machines only;
         (ddd)   Shoe and hat repair stores;
         (eee)   Shoe stores;
         (fff)   Sporting goods stores;
         (ggg)   Tailor shops;
         (hhh)   Taverns;
         (iii)   Telegraph offices;
         (jjj)   Tobacco shops;
         (kkk)   Toy shops;
         (lll)   Travel bureaus;
         (mmm)   Variety stores; and
         (nnn)   Wearing apparel shops.
      (3)   Offices - business and professional;
      (4)   Residential uses, as follows: dwelling units and lodging rooms, if
business uses or premises designed for such uses occupy the ground floor; and,
provided that, either:
         (a)   Not less than 20% of the frontage on the same street and within
the same block, or 20% of the frontage directly across the street from such
frontage is already developed with buildings in which there are dwelling units,
or lodging rooms; or
         (b)   At least two-thirds of the frontage in the entire block is zoned
for business, and that not less than 20% of the frontage so zoned for business
is already developed with buildings, in which there are dwelling units or
lodging rooms.
      (5)   Uses incidental to principal permitted uses, as follows:
         (a)   Accessory uses;
         (b)   Home occupations; and
         (c)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not
to exceed the duration of such construction.
(Prior Code, § 10-6B-2)
   (C)   Conditions of use. All uses permitted in this district (except R
district uses) shall be retail establishments dealing directly with consumers
and shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted below the second
floor;
      (2)   The sale of foodstuffs or articles intended for human consumption
shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building;
      (3)   Establishments of the “drive-in” type, offering goods or services
directly to customers waiting in parked motor vehicles, are not permitted;
      (4)   There shall be no manufacture, processing or treatment of products
other than those which are clearly incidental and essential to the retail
business conducted on the same premises;
      (5)   Not more than three persons (exclusive of managers, clerks and
drivers) shall be engaged in said manufacture, processing or treatment of
products;
      (6)   Such uses, operations or products shall not be objectionable due to
odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other similar causes. No merchandise,
materials or equipment shall be stored or displayed for sale in an open area
unless specifically permitted by the Village President and Board of Trustees
and after a public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals as provided in §
158.194 of this chapter; and
      (7)   Any exterior sign displayed shall pertain only to a use conducted
within the building.
(Prior Code, § 10-6B-3)
   (D)   Building height. No building shall exceed three stories or 45 feet in
height, except as otherwise provided in §
158.008(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-6B-4)
   (E)   Lot size. Every zoning lot for a building hereafter erected or
enlarged shall comply with the lot size requirements of the R-3 District.
Buildings containing mixed residential and business uses shall be located on a
lot having an area of not less than 2,000 square feet per dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 10-6B-5)
   (F)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Transitional yards. Where a B-2 District adjoins a residential
district, transitional yards shall be provided in accordance with the following
regulations.
         (a)   Front yard. When lots in a B-2 District front on a street and at
least 80% of the frontage directly across the street between two consecutive
intersecting streets is in a residential district, the front yard regulations
for the residential district shall apply to the said lots in the business
district.
         (b)   Side yards. In a B-2 District, where a side lot line coincides
with a side or rear lot line of property in an adjacent residential district, a
yard shall be provided along such rear lot line. Such yard shall be equal in
dimension to the minimum side yard which would be required under this chapter
for a residential use on the adjacent property in the residential district.
         (c)   Rear yard. In a B-2 District, where a rear lot line coincides
with a rear lot line of property in an adjacent residential district, a yard
shall be provided along such rear lot line. Such yard shall be 20 feet in
depth, but may begin at a height of 15 feet or one story above grade, whichever
is lower.
         (d)   Front or side yard extensions. In a B-2 District, where the
extension of a front or side lot line coincides with the front lot line of an
adjacent lot located in a-residential district, a yard equal in depth to the
minimum front yard required by this chapter on such adjacent lot in the
residential district shall be provided along such front or side lot line for a
distance of at least 25 feet including the width of any intervening alley, from
such lot in the residential district.
         (e)   Obstructions prohibited. Transitional yards shall be
unobstructed from lowest level to sky, except as allowed in §
158.008(C) of this chapter.
      (2)   Rear yard. In the B-2 District, a rear yard shall be provided for
residential uses located above the first floor; such yard to be not less than
30 feet in depth and to begin at a level no higher than that of the finished
floor of the lowest residential unit.
(Prior Code, § 10-6B-6)
   (G)   Dwelling standards. The maximum floor area ratio of buildings and
structures on a zoning lot in a B-2 District shall be as follows: the floor
area ratio shall not exceed 1:5.
(Prior Code, § 10-6B-7)
   (H)   Off-street parking and loading. Automobile parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in §§
158.115 through
158.125 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-6B-8)
(Ord. 01-162, passed 1-16-2001; Ord. 05-290, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 05-330,
passed 12-19-2005; Ord. 06-381, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 158.070 B-2A RESTRICTED RETAIL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section, or
set forth elsewhere in this chapter when referred to in this section, are the
district regulations in the B-2A Restricted Retail Business District.
(Prior Code, § 10-6C-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, structurally altered or enlarged unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, except for the following uses:
      (1)   Retail and service uses, as follows:
         (a)   Antique shops;
         (b)   Art galleries;
         (c)   Barber shops, three chairs or less;
         (d)   Beauty shops, three chairs or less;
         (e)   Camera and photographic supply stores;
         (f)   China and glassware stores;
         (g)   Coin and philatelic stores;
         (h)   Gift shops;
         (i)   Hobby shops, for retail of items to be assembled or used away
from the premises;
         (j)   Jewelry stores, including watch repair; and
         (k)   Locksmith shops.
      (2)   Offices - business and professional:
         (a)   Optician shops;
         (b)   Photographer;
         (c)   Tailor shops; and
         (d)   Travel bureau.
(Prior Code, § 10-6C-2)
   (C)   Conditions of use. All uses that are permitted in this district
(except for R district uses) shall be retail establishments which deal directly
with consumers and shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Dwelling units are not permitted below the second floor.
      (2)   Establishments of the “drive-in” type, offering goods or services
directly to customers waiting in parked motor vehicles, are not permitted.
      (3)   There shall be no manufacture, processing or treatment of products
other than those which are clearly incidental and essential to the retail
business conducted on the same premises.
      (4)   Not more than three persons (exclusive of one owner or manager)
shall be permitted to be employed at said premises.
      (5)   Such uses, operations or products shall not be objectionable due to
odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other similar causes. No merchandise,
materials or equipment shall be stored or displayed for sale in an open area
unless specifically permitted by the President and Board of Trustees and after
a public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals as provided in §§
158.190 through
158.195 of this chapter.
      (6)   Any exterior sign displayed shall pertain only to a use conducted
within the building and shall conform to the regulations contained in §§
158.140 through
158.145 of this chapter.
      (7)   In the event said use is adjacent or across the street from a
residential district, the building located in the B-2A District shall be
similar in appearance and design to the residential buildings in said adjacent
residential district.
(Prior Code, § 10-6C-3)
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading. Automobile parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in §§
158.115 through
158.125 of this chapter and, in addition thereto, one off-street parking space
for each employee shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 10-6C-4)
   (E)   Lot size. Every zoning lot for a building hereafter erected or
enlarged shall comply with the lot size requirements of the R-3 District.
Buildings containing mixed residential and business uses shall be located on a
lot having an area of not less than 2,000 square feet per dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 10-6C-5)
   (F)   Floor area ratio. The maximum floor area ratio of buildings and
structures on a zoning lot shall be six to one, and in a B-2A District the
floor area ratio shall not exceed one to five.
(Prior Code, § 10-6C-6)
   (G)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Transitional yards. Where a B-2A District adjoins a residential
district, transitional yards shall be provided in accordance with the following
regulations.
         (a)   When lots in a B-2A District front on a street and at least 80%
of the frontage directly across the street between two consecutive intersecting
streets is in a residential district, the front yard regulations for the
residential district shall apply to the said lots in the business district.
         (b)   In a B-2A District, where a side lot line coincides with a side
or rear lot line of property in an adjacent residential district, a yard shall
be provided along such rear lot line. Such yard shall be equal in dimension to
the minimum side yard which would be required under this section for a
residential use on the adjacent property in the residential district.
         (c)   In a B-2A District, where a rear lot line coincides with a rear
lot line of property in an adjacent residential district, a yard shall be
provided along such rear lot line. Such yard shall be 20 feet in depth, but may
begin at a height of 15 feet or one story above grade, whichever is lower.
         (d)   In a B-2A District, where the extension of a front or side lot
line coincides with the front lot line of an adjacent lot located in a
residential district, a yard equal in depth to the minimum front yard required
by this section on such adjacent lot in the residential district shall be
provided along such front or side lot line for a distance of at least 25 feet,
including the width of any intervening alley, from such lot in the residential
district.
         (e)   Transitional yards shall be unobstructed from lowest level to
sky, except as allowed in division (D) above.
         (f)   In a B-2A District, a transitional yard, as herein described,
shall be effectively screened by a wall, a solid fence, or a densely planted
compact hedge along any side which adjoins or is directly across a street or
alley from a property in a residential district or an institutional property.
Such wall, fence or hedge shall be at least four feet, but not more than seven
feet, in height and shall be maintained in good condition.
      (2)   Rear yard. In the B-2A District, a rear yard shall be provided for
residential uses located above the first floor; such yard to be not less than
30 feet in depth and to begin at a level no higher than that of the finished
floor of the lowest residential unit.
(Prior Code, § 10-6C-7)
   (H)   Building height. No building shall exceed two stories or 35 feet in
height, except as otherwise provided in division (D) above.
(Prior Code, § 10-6C-8)
(Ord. passed 2-19-1980)
§ 158.071 B-3 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this chapter when referred to in this section are the
district regulations in the B-3 General Business District.
(Prior Code, § 10-6D-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, structurally altered or enlarged unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, except for the following uses conducted in accordance with the
conditions stipulated in division (C) below. In the B-3 General Business
District, the following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B-2 Business District;
      (2)   Amusement establishments: bowling alleys*, pool halls, dance halls,
skating rinks and other similar places of recreation when conducted wholly
within a completely enclosed building;
      (3)   Antique shops;
      (4)   Art galleries and studios;
      (5)   Auction rooms;
      (6)   Auditoriums;
      (7)   Bicycle stores, including rental and repair;
      (8)   Billiard and pool rooms;
      (9)   Blueprinting and photostating establishments;
      (10)   Business colleges or business schools, operated as a business
enterprise;
      (11)   Caskets and casket supplies;
      (12)   Catering establishments;
      (13)   Clothing and costume rental shops;
      (14)   Drive-in businesses where persons are served in automobiles such
as banks, restaurants, refreshment stands and the like;
      (15)   Dry cleaning establishments, when employing facilities for the
cleaning and pressing of dry goods for retail trade only, conducted on the
premises and when using carbontetrachloride, perchlorethylene or other similar
non-inflammable solvents approved by the Fire Department;
      (16)   Employment agencies;
      (17)   Exterminating shops;
      (18)   Feed and seed stores;
      (19)   Frozen food lockers, excluding wholesale storage;
      (20)   Guns, firearms or ammunition - sale and/or repair;
      (21)   Hospitals or sanitariums (except animal hospitals);
      (22)   Hotels and motels;
      (23)   Laundries employing not more than four persons in addition to one
owner or manager;
      (24)   Medical or dental clinics and laboratories;
      (25)   Mirror and glazing shops;
      (26)   Music conservatories or music instruction;
      (27)   Newsstands;
      (28)   Orthopedic, medical and surgical, but not including the assembly
or manufacture of such articles;
      (29)   Parking lots, open and other than accessory, for the storage of
private passenger automobiles and subject to the provisions of §§
158.115 through
158.125 of this chapter;
      (30)   Pawnshops;
      (31)   Pet shops, but not including animal hospitals;
      (32)   Photograph developing and processing shops;
      (33)   Physical culture and health services - gymnasiums, swimming pools,
reducing salons, masseurs, public baths;
      (34)   Picture framing establishments when conducted for retail trade on
the premises only;
      (35)   Plumbing showrooms;
      (36)   Printing, lithographing or publishing establishment for
letterpress, business cards, mimeographing and other similar custom services;
      (37)   Private clubs or lodges;
      (38)   Post offices;
      (39)   Public service facilities, including electric distributing
substations, fire or police stations, telephone exchange and similar uses;
      (40)   Schools - music, dancing, business or trade;
      (41)   Secondhand stores if conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building;
      (42)   Taxidermist shops;
      (43)   Theaters, excluding drive-in theaters;
      (44)   Ticket agencies, amusement;
      (45)   Travel bureaus and transportation ticket offices;
      (46)   Undertaking establishments, funeral parlors;
      (47)   Upholstering shops, if conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building;
      (48)   Wholesale merchandise brokers, excluding wholesale storage;
      (49)   Any other similar type retail store or service establishment not
specifically permitted herein, but which has economic compatibility with the
established uses on adjoining premises; and
      (50)   All activities, except for automobile off-street parking
facilities, as permitted or required in this B-3 District, shall be conducted
wholly within an enclosed building.
(Prior Code, § 10-6D-2)
   (C)   Conditions of use. All uses permitted in this district (except R
district uses) shall be retail establishments only and shall be subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted below the second
floor.
      (2)   There shall be no manufacture, processing or treatment of products
other than those which are clearly incidental and essential to the retail
business conducted on the same premises.
      (3)   Not more than five persons (exclusive of manager, clerk and
drivers) shall be engaged in said manufacture, processing or treatment of
products, including catering, cleaning, laundering, plumbing, upholstering and
other similar permitted uses.
      (4)   Such uses, operations or products shall not be objectionable due to
odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibrations or other similar cause. No merchandise,
materials or equipment shall be stored or displayed for sale in an open area.
      (5)   The sale of foodstuffs or articles intended for human consumption
shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
(Prior Code, § 10-6D-3)
   (D)   Building height. No building shall exceed three stories or 45 feet in
height, except as otherwise provided in §
158.008(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-6D-4)
   (E)   Lot size.
      (1)   In a B-3 District, for every dwelling unit established hereafter,
there shall be provided a minimum of 1,200 square feet of lot area; except
that, for every efficiency unit there shall be provided not less than 800
square feet of lot area.
      (2)   For every lodging room established hereafter in a B-3 District,
there shall be provided not less than 600 square feet of lot area.
(Prior Code, § 10-6D-5)
   (F)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Transitional yards. In the B-3 District, the regulations governing
transitional yard in the B-2 District shall apply.
      (2)   Rear yard.
         (a)   In the B-3 District, a rear yard shall be provided for
residential uses located above the first floor; such yards to be not less than
30 feet in depth and to begin at a level no higher than that of the finished
floor of the lowest residential unit.
         (b)   Required rear yards shall be unobstructed from lowest level to
sky, except as allowed in §
158.008(C) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-6D-6)
   (G)   Dwelling standards. The maximum floor area ratio of buildings and
structures on a zoning lot in the B-3 District shall be as follows: the floor
area ratio shall not exceed 2:5.
(Prior Code, § 10-6D-7)
   (H)   Off-street parking and loading. Automobile parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in §§
158.115 through
158.125 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-6D-8)
(Ord. passed 11-23-1976)
§ 158.072 B-4 BUSINESS SERVICES AND WHOLESALE DISTRICT.
   (A)   District regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this chapter when referred to in this section are the
district regulations in the B-4 Business Services and Wholesale District.
(Prior Code, § 10-6E-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, structurally altered or enlarged unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, except for the following uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B-3 Business District, unless otherwise
set forth or superseded hereinafter;
      (2)   Agricultural implement sales and service, when conducted wholly
within an enclosed building;
      (3)   Air conditioning and heating sales and service;
      (4)   Automobile repair and service shops, including automobile repair
and rebuilding and painting of automobiles;
      (5)   Beverages, non-alcoholic; bottling and distributing;
      (6)   Bicycle sales and repair;
      (7)   Building materials sales, when conducted wholly within a building;
      (8)   Carpenter or cabinet shops (excluding furniture manufacture);
      (9)   Cartage and express facilities;
      (10)   Clothing, custom manufacturing and alterations for retail trade
only;
      (11)   Commercial day school or commercial nursery school and day care;
      (12)   Contractor or construction shops, such as building, cement,
electrical, roofing, refrigeration, masonry, painting, plumbing, air
conditioning, heating and ventilating;
      (13)   Dry cleaning establishments;
      (14)   Exterminating shops;
      (15)   Feed and seed stores, wholesale;
      (16)   Garages, public; for the storage of private passenger automobiles
and commercial vehicles under one and one-half ton capacity;
      (17)   Glass cutting and glazing;
      (18)   Greenhouses, wholesale growers;
      (19)   Hand car wash and hand detail shop;
      (20)   House trailer sales (mobile homes);
      (21)   Household appliance repair shops;
      (22)   Laboratories - medical, dental, research, experimental and
testing, provided there is no danger from fire or explosion, nor of offensive
noise, smoke, dust, odor, heat, glare, vibration or other objectionable
conditions beyond the confines of the premises upon which the use is located;
      (23)   Laundries, limited to 6,250 square feet of gross floor area per
establishment;
      (24)   Linen, towel, diaper and other similar supply services - limited
to 6,250 square feet of gross floor area per establishment;
      (25)   Machinery sales and service;
      (26)   Monument sales;
      (27)   Motor vehicle sales, including used car lots;
      (28)   Motorcycle sales, including servicing and repair;
      (29)   Plumbing and roofing supply shops;
      (30)   Processing or assembly, limited to the following provided that
space occupied in a building does not exceed 6,000 square feet of total floor
and basement space, not including stairwells or elevator shafts, and provided
such processing or assembly can be conducted without noise, vibration, odor,
dust or any other condition which might be disturbing to occupants of adjacent
buildings. When manufacturing operations of the same or similar products demand
space exceeding 6,000 square feet, they shall be located in the M-
1 Manufacturing District:
         (a)   Advertising displays;
         (b)   Awnings, Venetian blinds and window shades;
         (c)   Brushes and brooms;
         (d)   Bakeries, wholesale;
         (e)   Cosmetics, drugs and perfumes;
         (f)   Electrical equipment appliances;
         (g)   Food processing, packaging and distribution;
         (h)   Ice cream;
         (i)   Jewelry;
         (j)   Medical and dental supplies;
         (k)   Optical goods and equipment;
         (l)   Pattern making;
         (m)   Printing and publication of newspapers, periodicals and books;
         (n)   Products from finished materials such as plastic, bone, cloth,
cork, feathers, felt, fibre, paper, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, precious
or semi-precious stones, rubber, shell or yarn; and
         (o)   Scientific and precision instruments.
      (31)   Recreation places, including bowling alleys, dance halls,
gymnasiums, skating rinks, archery ranges, golf practice ranges, miniature golf
courses or other similar places of amusement or entertainment when operated for
pecuniary profit;
      (32)   Restaurants, drive-in type;
      (33)   Silver plating and repair shops;
      (34)   Tool, die and pattern making;
      (35)   Used passenger automobile sales on an open lot or within a
building;
      (36)   Uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses and accessory
buildings, when located on the same premises; and
      (37)   Wholesale offices and storerooms with storage limited to 6,250
square feet of floor area per establishment.
(Prior Code, § 10-6E-2)
   (C)   Conditions of use. In the B-4 District, the above permitted uses are
subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Dwelling units and lodging rooms, other than those located in a
transient hotel or motel, are not permitted below the second floor.
      (2)   Not more than 6,250 square feet in the aggregate of gross floor
area per establishment shall be devoted to the production or processing of
goods or products.
      (3)   All activities involving the production, processing, cleaning,
servicing, testing or repair of materials, goods or products shall be conducted
without danger from fire or explosion, nor of offensive noise, vibration,
smoke, dust, odor, heat, glare or other objectionable conditions beyond the
boundaries of the premises upon which the use is located.
      (4)   All production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing or repair
of materials, goods or products shall take place within completely enclosed
buildings, except for the storage of building materials and except for the
parking of motor vehicles in the open.
(Prior Code, § 10-6E-3)
   (D)   Building height. No building shall exceed three stories or 45 feet in
height, except as otherwise provided in §
158.008(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-6E-4)
   (E)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Transitional yards. The regulations governing transitional yards in
the B-3 District shall apply in the B-4 District.
      (2)   Rear yard. In the B-4 District, a rear yard shall be provided for
residential uses located above the first floor; such yard to be not less than
30 feet in depth and to begin at a level no higher than that of the finished
floor of the lowest residential unit. Required rear yards shall be unobstructed
from lowest level to the sky, except as allowed in §
158.008(C) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-6E-5)
   (F)   Dwelling standards. The maximum floor area ratio of buildings and
structures on a zoning lot in a B-4 District shall be as follows: the floor
area ratio shall not exceed 3:5.
(Prior Code, § 10-6E-6)
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
§ 158.085 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The manufacturing districts set forth herein are established to
protect health, safety, comfort, convenience and the general welfare and to
protect the economic base of the village as well as the value of real estate by
regulating manufacturing development in appropriate locations.
   (B)   These general objectives include, among others, the following specific
objectives:
      (1)   To protect established residential areas, and the health of
families living herein, by restricting those nearby manufacturing activities
which may create offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare,
fire hazards and other objectionable influences to those areas which are
appropriate therefor;
      (2)   To provide adequate space in appropriate locations for most types
of manufacturing and related activities so that the economic base of the
community may be strengthened, and that employment opportunities may be found
in the interest of public prosperity and welfare;
      (3)   To provide more space for manufacturing activities in localities
accessible to rail and highways so that the movement of raw materials, finished
products and employees can be carried on efficiently and with a minimum of
danger to public life and property;
      (4)   To establish proper standards of performance which will restrict
obnoxious manufacturing activities while at the same time encourage and permit
the manufacturing activities which have adopted facilities for the processing
of finished products without adversely affecting the health, happiness, safety,
convenience and welfare of the people living and working in nearby areas;
      (5)   To protect manufacturing districts from incompatible uses of land
by prohibiting the use of such space for new residential development, thereby
preserving the land for a more appropriate use in accordance with the plans for
village improvement and development; and
      (6)   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a
well-considered plan of land use for all of the village to conserve the use of
property, to promote stability of manufacturing activities and related
development, to protect the character and established development in each area
of the community, to enhance and stabilize the value of land and to protect the
tax base of the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-1)
§ 158.086 M-1 LIMITED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Uses permitted. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, structurally altered or enlarged unless otherwise provided in
this code, except for the following uses:
      (1)   Retail and service uses, as follows:
         (a)   Animal hospitals, pounds and shelters;
         (b)   Automobile laundries;
         (c)   Automobile sales and service;
         (d)   Banks;
         (e)   Battery and tire service stations;
         (f)   Beverages, non-alcoholic - bottling and distributing;
         (g)   Building material sales;
         (h)   Contractor or construction shops, such as building, cement,
electrical, refrigeration, air conditioning, heating and ventilating, roofing,
masonry, painting, plumbing;
         (i)   Currency exchanges;
         (j)   Drugs;
         (k)   Fuel and ice sales;
         (l)   Garages and parking lots, other than accessory, subject to the
provisions of §§
158.175 through
158.179 of this chapter;
         (m)   Greenhouses;
         (n)   Hardware stores;
         (o)   Linen, towel, diaper and other similar supply services;
         (p)   Restaurants;
         (q)   Riding academies and stables; and
         (r)   Trade schools.
      (2)   Production, processing, cleaning, testing and repair, limited to
the following uses and products:
         (a)   Advertising displays;
         (b)   Art needlework and hand weaving;
         (c)   Awnings, Venetian blinds;
         (d)   Bakeries;
         (e)   Beverages, non-alcoholic;
         (f)   Boat building and repair of pleasure craft and other small
craft, but not including ship building or ship repair;
         (g)   Books, hand binding and tooling;
         (h)   Bottling works, beverage;
         (i)   Brushes and brooms;
         (j)   Cameras and other photographic equipment, except film;
         (k)   Candy manufacture;
         (l)   Canvas and canvas products;
         (m)   Carpentry and woodworking shops;
         (n)   Carpet and rug cleaning;
         (o)   Ceramic products such as pottery and small glazed tile;
         (p)   Clothing manufacture;
         (q)   Cold storage plants;
         (r)   Cosmetics and toiletries;
         (s)   Dentures;
         (t)   Drugs;
         (u)   Dry cleaning establishments;
         (v)   Electric appliances, such as lighting fixtures, irons, fans,
toasters and electric toys;
         (w)   Food products, processing and combining of baking, boiling,
canning, cooking, dehydrating, freezing, frying, grinding, mixing and pressing,
provided there is no danger from fire or explosion, or of offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare or other objectionable influences;
         (x)   Fur goods, not including tanning or dyeing;
         (y)   Glass products from previously manufactured glass;
         (z)   Hair, felt and feather products (except washing, curing and
dyeing);
         (aa)   Hat bodies of fur and wool felt;
         (bb)   Hosiery;
         (cc)   House trailers;
         (dd)   Ice, dry and natural;
         (ee)   Ink mixing and packaging and inked ribbons;
         (ff)   Jewelry;
         (gg)   Laboratories - medical, dental, research, experimental and
testing, provided there is no danger from fire or explosion or of offensive
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat, glare or other objectionable
influences;
         (hh)   Laundries;
         (ii)   Leather products, including shoes and machine belting;
         (jj)   Luggage;
         (kk)   Machine shops for tool, die and pattern making;
         (ll)   Machinery, farm - sales, repairing and overhauling;
         (mm)   Meat products;
         (nn)   Metal finishing, plating, grinding, sharpening, polishing,
cleaning, rust-proofing and heat treatment;
         (oo)   Metal stamping and extrusion of small products such as costume
jewelry, pins and needles, razor blades, bottle caps, buttons and kitchen
utensils;
         (pp)   Monument works;
         (qq)   Motor vehicle repair, major;
         (rr)   Musical instruments;
         (ss)   Orthopedic and medical appliances such as artificial limbs,
braces, supports and stretchers;
         (tt)   Paper products, small, such as envelopes and stationery, bags,
boxes, tubes and wallpaper printing;
         (uu)   Perfumes and perfumed soaps, compounding only;
         (vv)   Pharmaceutical products, compounding only;
         (ww)   Precision instruments such as optical, medical and drafting;
         (xx)   Printing and newspaper publishing, including engraving and
photo-engraving;
         (yy)   Products from finished materials - plastic, bone, cork,
feathers, felt, fibre, paper, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, precious and
semi-precious stones, rubber, shell or yarn;
         (zz)   Repair of household or office machinery or equipment;
         (aaa)   Rubber products, small, and synthetic-treated fabrics
(excluding all rubber and synthetic processing) such as washers, gloves,
footwear, bathing caps and atomizers;
         (bbb)   Schools - colleges and universities, public and private;
         (ccc)   Shell egg business, candling, cartoning and distributing;
         (ddd)   Sheet metal shops;
         (eee)   Sign painting;
         (fff)   Silverware, plate and sterling;
         (ggg)   Soap and detergents, packaging only;
         (hhh)   Soldering and welding;
         (iii)   Sporting and athletic equipment such as balls, baskets, cues,
gloves, bats, racquets and rods;
         (jjj)   Statuary, mannequins, figurines and religious and church art
goods, excluding foundry operations;
         (kkk)   Textiles - spinning, weaving, manufacturing, dyeing, printing,
knit goods, yarn, thread and cordage but not including textile bleaching;
         (lll)   Tools and hardware - such as bolts, nuts and screws,
doorknobs, drills, hand tools and cutlery, hinges, house hardware, locks, non-
ferrous metal castings and plumbing appliances;
         (mmm)   Toys;
         (nnn)   Truck repair garages;
         (ooo)   Umbrellas;
         (ppp)   Upholstering (bulk) including mattress manufacturing,
rebuilding and renovating;
         (qqq)   Vehicles, children’s - such as bicycles, scooters, wagons and
baby carriages;
         (rrr)   Watches; and
         (sss)   Wood products such as furniture, boxes, crates, baskets and
pencils and cooperage works.
      (3)   Wholesale and warehousing (but not including motor freight
terminals);
      (4)   Public and community service uses, as follows:
         (a)   Bus terminals, bus garages, bus lots, street railway terminals
or streetcar houses;
         (b)   Electric substations;
         (c)   Fire stations;
         (d)   Municipal or privately-owned recreation buildings or community
centers;
         (e)   Parks;
         (f)   Police stations;
         (g)   Railroad passenger stations;
         (h)   Railroad rights-of-way;
         (i)   Telephone exchanges;
         (j)   Water filtration plants;
         (k)   Water pumping stations; and
         (l)   Water reservoirs.
      (5)   Residential uses, as follows: dwelling units for watchmen and their
families when located on the premises where they are employed in such capacity;
      (6)   Miscellaneous uses, as follows:
         (a)   Radio and television towers; and
         (b)   Signs, as regulated by §§
158.140 through
158.145 of this chapter.
      (7)   Uses incidental to permitted uses, as follows:
         (a)   Accessory uses; and
         (b)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not
to exceed the duration of such construction.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-1)
   (B)   Conditions of use. In the M-1 District, all permitted uses are subject
to the following.
      (1)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or
storage of goods, materials or products shall take place without creating
disturbing influences to the use and occupancy of adjoining properties.
      (2)   All business, production, servicing and processing shall take place
within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. Within 150
feet of the nearest point of any residential district, all storage shall be in
completely enclosed buildings or structures and storage located elsewhere in
this district may be open to the sky, but shall be enclosed by solid wall or
fence, including solid doors or gates thereto, at least eight feet high, but in
no case lower in height than the enclosed storage. However, open off-street
parking facilities for the storage of motor vehicles may be unenclosed
throughout the district, except for such screening of parking and loading
facilities as may be required under the provisions of §§
158.115 through
158.125 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-2)
   (C)   Special uses. In the M-1 District, the following uses may be allowed
as special uses if the site locations and proposed development plans are first
approved as provided in §§
158.175 through
158.179 of this chapter:
      (1)   Establishments engaged in producing, processing, cleaning and
testing or repair, other than those listed as permitted in the M-1 District;
      (2)   Airports or aircraft landing fields and heliports;
      (3)   Automobile service stations;
      (4)   Planned developments, industrial;
      (5)   Railroad and motor freight terminals, railroad switching facilities
and repair shops; and
      (6)   Stadiums, auditoriums and arenas.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-3)
   (D)   Building height. No building shall exceed three stories or 55 feet in
height, except as otherwise provided in §
158.008(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-4)
   (E)   Yard areas.
      (1)   Front yards. On every lot in the M-1 District, a front yard of not
less than 25 feet in depth shall be provided. However, where lots within the
same block and comprising 40% of the frontage on the same street are already
developed on the effective date of this code, with front yards with an average
depth of less than 25 feet, then such average depth shall be the required front
yard depth for such frontage in said block.
      (2)   Side yards. On every zoning lot in the M-1 District, a side yard
shall be provided along each side lot line. Each side yard shall be not less in
width than 10% of the lot width, but need not exceed ten feet in width.
      (3)   Rear yard. A rear yard is not required, except where a lot abuts
upon an R district, in which case there shall be a rear yard of not less than
30 feet and no storage of materials or equipment or the parking of automobiles
shall take place within the 15 feet closest to any residential lot or lots.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-5)
   (F)   Dwelling standards. Maximum floor area ratio of buildings and
structures on a zoning lot in an M-1 District shall be as follows: the floor
area ratio shall not exceed 2:5.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-6)
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading. Automobile parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in §§
158.115 through
158.125 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-7)
   (H)   Performance standards. The following requirements shall apply.
      (1)   Noise.
         (a)   The sound pressure level, to be measured as described below,
shall not exceed the following decibel levels in the designated octave bands
when adjacent to the designated types of use districts:
Octave Band, Cycles Per Second Sound Level, in Decibels
                               All Residential Districts B-1, B-2, B-3
Octave Band, Cycles Per Second Sound Level, in Decibels
                               All Residential Districts B-1, B-2, B-3
0 - 75                         58                        73
76 - 150                       54                        69
151 - 300                      50                        65
301 - 600                      46                        61
601 - 1,200                    40                        55
1,201 - 2,400                  33                        48
2,401 - 4,800                  26                        41
Over 4,800                     20                        35
 
         (b)   Objectionable sounds of an intermittent nature which are not
easily measured shall be controlled as not to become a nuisance to adjacent
uses.
         (c)   Measurement is to be made at the nearest boundary of the nearest
residential area or at any other point along the boundary where the level is
higher. The sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and
associated octave band filter as prescribed by the American Standards
Association.
      (2)   Smoke and particulate matter. The emission of smoke or dusts by
manufacturing plants in an amount sufficient to create a general nuisance to
adjoining properties shall be prohibited. Total emission of smoke and
particulate matter shall be limited to the following: all smoke and the
emission of all other particulate matter in quantities sufficient to produce an
opacity at any point greater than Ringelmann 3 is prohibited. The only
exception shall be a plume consisting entirely of condensed steam. A Ringelmann
unit is defined as 20% density for one minute. No more than 15 units of
Ringelmann smoke shall be permitted per hour and no smoke more intense than
Ringelmann 2; except that, during one hour of a 24-hour day, 30 units of smoke
may be emitted, but with no smoke more intense than Ringelmann 3. The total
quantity of emitted solids shall not exceed one pound per hour per acre of lot
area.
      (3)   Odors. No overly objectionable or hazardous odor shall be emitted
by any use permitted in this district in such quantities as to be readily
detectable by an average observer at any point on the boundary line of the
premises or beyond.
      (4)   Toxic matter. Processes and operations of permitted uses capable of
dispersing gases or toxic particulates into the atmosphere must be hooded or
otherwise suitably enclosed. The emission of such toxic gases or particulate
matter shall be from a stack, or in such a manner that they create no hazard to
person or property.
      (5)   Flare and heat. Operations producing intense light or heat shall be
performed within an enclosed building and not be visible beyond any lot line
bounding the property whereon the use is conducted.
      (6)   Vibrations. No uses shall be located and no equipment shall be
installed in such a way as to produce intense, earth-shaking vibrations which
are noticeable at the property lines of the subject premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-8)
(Ord. 89-127, passed 10-31-1989; Ord. 07-408, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 158.087 M-2 GENERAL MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Uses permitted. The uses permitted in this district generally include
those manufacturing and industrial activities which cannot be operated
economically without creating some conditions which may be obnoxious or
objectionable to the occupants of adjoining properties and for that reason must
be grouped in areas where similar industrial uses are now located or where the
permitted uses will be best located in accordance with the comprehensive land
use plan of the village, which is designed to protect the welfare of the
community. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the M-1 District;
      (2)   Aircraft, assembly and testing of fuselage and motors;
      (3)   Alcoholic beverages, manufacture;
      (4)   Automobiles, trucks and trailers, manufacture;
      (5)   Blacksmith shop;
      (6)   Blast furnaces, steel works or rolling mills;
      (7)   Boiler works;
      (8)   Box and crate manufacture;
      (9)   Brass foundry;
      (10)   Brick, tile and terra cotta manufacture;
      (11)   Building materials such as prefabricated houses, composition
wallboards, partitions and panels;
      (12)   Cement products;
      (13)   Chalk manufacture;
      (14)   Charcoal manufacture;
      (15)   Chemicals;
      (16)   Coffin manufacture;
      (17)   Cooperage works;
      (18)   Corrugated metal products;
      (19)   Cotton ginning and cotton wadding;
      (20)   Cottonseed oil manufacture;
      (21)   Dyes, aniline, ink pigments and others, manufacture;
      (22)   Feed milling and processing;
      (23)   Gelatin, vegetable and animal;
      (24)   Glass blowing and manufacture;
      (25)   Grain elevators;
      (26)   Graphite and graphite products, manufacture;
      (27)   Hemp products, manufacture;
      (28)   Ink from primary raw materials, including colors and pigment;
      (29)   Junkyards and automobile wrecking yards;
      (30)   Linoleum manufacture;
      (31)   Lumber preserving treatment, processing, sawmills and planing
mills;
      (32)   Machinery, heavy manufacture and repair, including electrical,
construction, mining and agriculture manufacture;
      (33)   Meat and fish products, packing and processing of, but not
including slaughtering and glue and size manufacture;
      (34)   Metal foundries and casting;
      (35)   Metal stamping and extrusion of metal products;
      (36)   Motor testing or internal combustion motors, manufacture;
      (37)   Porcelain products such as bathroom and kitchen equipment,
manufacture;
      (38)   Railroad equipment such as railroad car and locomotive
manufacture;
      (39)   Rubber products, including tires and tubes manufacture and tire
recapping;
      (40)   Wax products, manufacture from paraffin; and
      (41)   Wool scouring and pulling.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-1)
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In addition to the preceding uses, the
following uses may be permitted if located more than 500 feet from any part of
an R district and subject to the approval of the village’s Board of Trustees by
specific ordinance, and then only after receiving a recommendation for approval
from the Zoning Board of Appeals indicating that the proposed use will not be
injurious to the public welfare in the surrounding neighborhood, and not
contrary to the spirit and purpose of this chapter. Said report from the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall be made within 30 days after the use application has
been referred to it by the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture;
      (2)   Asphalt manufacture or refining;
      (3)   Celluloid manufacture or treatment;
      (4)   Coke ovens;
      (5)   Crematories;
      (6)   Disinfectant, insecticide or poison manufacture;
      (7)   Distillation of bones, coal or wood;
      (8)   Dyestuff manufacture;
      (9)   Fat rendering;
      (10)   Paint, oil (including linseed), shellac, turpentine, lacquers or
varnish manufacture;
      (11)   Rock crushing;
      (12)   Rubber or gutta percha manufacture or treatment;
      (13)   Saltworks;
      (14)   Sauerkraut, sausage or bologna manufacture;
      (15)   Stone mill or quarry;
      (16)   Tallow, grease or lard manufacture or refining;
      (17)   Vinegar manufacture;
      (18)   Yeast plants; and
      (19)   In general, those uses which have been declared a nuisance in any
court of record or which are or may be unreasonably obnoxious or offensive in
the opinion of the Zoning Administrator by reason of the emission of odor,
vapor, smoke, gas or noise.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-2)
   (C)   Conditions of use. In the M-2 District, all permitted uses are subject
to the same conditions as stipulated in §
158.086(B) of this chapter with the exception of the conditional permitted uses
listed in division (B) above, in which event the conditions shall be as
determined by the Zoning Board of Appeals and the village’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-3)
   (D)   Building height. No building shall exceed seven stories or 80 feet in
height, except as otherwise provided in §
158.008(A) of this chapter and except where a building is located on a lot
abutting or adjoining a residential district or a publicly-owned area other
than an alley or street, in which instance it shall not exceed three stories or
45 feet in height, unless it is set back one foot from all required yard lines
for each foot of additional height above 45 feet.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-4)
   (E)   Yard areas.
      (1)   Front yard. On every zoning lot in the M-2 District, a front yard
of not less than 50 feet in depth shall be provided. However, where lots within
the same block and comprising 40% of the frontage on the same street are
already developed on the effective date of this chapter with front yards with
an average depth of less than 50 feet, then such average depth shall be the
required front yard depth for such frontage in said block.
      (2)   Side yards. The same regulations shall apply as required or
permitted in the M-1 Manufacturing District.
      (3)   Rear yard. The same regulations shall apply as required or
permitted in the M-1 Manufacturing District.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-5)
   (F)   Dwelling standards. Maximum floor area ratio of buildings and
structures on a zoning lot in an M-2 District shall be as follows: the floor
area ratio shall not exceed 2:5.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-6)
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading. Automobile parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in §§
158.115 through
158.125 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-7)
   (H)   Performance standards. The performance standards for the M-
2 Manufacturing District shall be the same as those required for the M-
1 District.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-8)
(Ord. 89-127, passed 10-31-1989)
NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
§ 158.100 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Authority to continue non-conforming use of a building. The lawful use
of a building existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter may be
continued, although such use does not conform with the provisions hereof, and
such use may be extended throughout the building, provided no structural
alterations, except those required by law or ordinance are made therein. If no
structural alterations are made, a non-conforming use of a building may be
changed to another non-conforming use of the same or more restricted
classification. The foregoing provisions shall also apply to non-conforming
uses in districts hereafter changed. Whenever a non-conforming use of a
building has been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, such
use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use.
   (B)   Discontinuance of non-conforming use. In the event that a non-
conforming use of any building or premises is discontinued or its normal
operation stopped for a period of two years, the use of the same shall
thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (C)   Repairs, alterations or enlargements. No existing building or premises
devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter in the district in which such
building or premises is located, except when required to do so by law or
ordinance, shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed or structurally altered
unless such use is changed to one permitted in the district in which such
building or premises is located.
   (D)   Non-conforming use of land. The lawful use of land for storage
purposes and for advertising signs and billboards, which does not conform to
the provisions of this chapter, shall be discontinued within five years from
the date of the approval of this chapter and the same uses of land which became
non-conforming by reason of a subsequent change in this chapter shall also be
discontinued within five years from the date of the change.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-1)
§ 158.101 RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS.
   No building which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or public
enemy to the extent of more than 60% of its value shall be restored, except in
conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-2)
§ 158.102 NON-CONFORMING COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS IN RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
   Except as provided in §
158.193 of this chapter, all non-conforming commercial or industrial buildings
located within any dwelling district shall be removed or converted, and the
building thereafter devoted to a use permitted in the district in accordance
with the following schedule:
 
In the case of buildings erected since Within 40 years from the date of the
1-1-1931                               issuance of a building permit therefor,
                                       but in all cases on or before 1-1-1991
 
(Prior Code, § 10-8-3)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 158.115 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the
public streets, and so promote the safety and welfare of the public by
establishing minimum requirements for the off-street parking and loading and
unloading of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which property is
put.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-1)
§ 158.116 GENERAL PROVISIONS; SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Scope of regulations; extent of control. The off-street parking and
loading requirements of this chapter shall apply as follows.
      (1)   All buildings and structures erected and land uses initiated after
the effective date hereof shall provide accessory off-street parking or loading
facilities as required hereinafter for the use thereof.
      (2)   When a building or structure erected prior to or after the
effective date hereof shall undergo any decrease in number of dwelling units,
gross floor area, seating capacity, number of employees or other unit of
measurement specified hereinafter for required parking or loading facilities
and, further, when said decrease would result in a requirement for fewer total
parking or loading spaces through application of the provisions of this chapter
thereto, parking and loading facilities may be reduced accordingly; provided
that, existing parking or loading facilities shall be so decreased only when
the facilities remaining would at least equal or exceed the parking or loading
requirements resulting from application of the provisions of this chapter to
the entire building or structure as modified.
      (3)   When a building or structure shall undergo any increase in number
of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other unit of
measurement specified hereinafter for required parking or loading facilities,
and further, when said increase would result in a requirement for additional
total parking or loading spaces through application of the provisions of this
chapter thereto, parking and loading facilities may be increased accordingly;
provided that, existing parking or loading facilities shall be so increased
that the facilities would at least equal or exceed the parking or loading
requirements resulting from application of the provisions of this chapter to
the entire building or structure as modified.
   (B)   Plan and drawings required. An application for a building permit for a
new or enlarged building, structure or use shall include therewith a plot plan,
drawn to scale, and fully dimensioned showing any parking or loading facilities
to be provided in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Existing parking and loading spaces. Accessory off-street parking and
loading spaces in existence on the effective date hereof may not be reduced in
number unless already exceeding the requirements of this chapter for equivalent
new construction, in which event said spaces shall not be reduced below the
number required herein for such equivalent new construction.
   (D)   Permissive parking and loading spaces. Nothing in this chapter shall
prevent the establishment of off-street automobile parking or loading
facilities to serve any existing use of land or buildings, subject to full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; except that, off-street parking
areas accessory to existing multiple-family structures cannot be located off
the premises containing the main use, unless on a lot adjacent thereto, without
authorization by the village’s Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Damaged buildings, structures and uses. Any building, structure or use
which is in existence and is a conforming use on the effective date hereof and
which subsequently shall be damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion
or other cause, may be reconstructed, re-established or repaired with or
without off-street parking and loading facilities; except that, parking or
loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of such damage or
destruction shall be restored or continued in operation. However, it shall not
be necessary to restore or maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of
those required in this chapter for equivalent new construction.
   (F)   Schedule of requirements.
      (1)   Requirements governing the number and location of off-street
parking and off-street loading facilities in relation to the use of property
are established in §§
158.120 and
158.122 of this chapter. The parking and loading requirements for any use not
specified therein shall be the same as for a similar specified use, as
determined by §§
158.175 through
158.179 of this chapter.
      (2)   The term FLOOR AREA, as employed in this chapter in the case of
office, merchandising or service types of use, shall mean the gross floor area
of a building or structure used or intended to be used for service to the
public as customers, patrons, clients, patients or tenants, including areas
occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or sale of merchandise.
FLOOR AREA, for the purpose of this chapter, shall not include any area used
for:
         (a)   Storage accessory to the principal use of a building;
         (b)   Incidental repairs;
         (c)   Processing or packaging of merchandise;
         (d)   Show windows or offices incidental to the management or
maintenance of a store or building;
         (e)   Rest rooms;
         (f)   Utilities; and
         (g)   Dressing, fitting or alteration rooms.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-2)
§ 158.117 USE OF PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Off-street parking facilities accessory to residential uses and
developed in any residential district in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter shall be used solely for the parking of passenger automobiles
owned by occupants of the dwelling structures to which said facilities are
accessory or by guests of said occupants.
   (B)   Under no circumstances shall required parking facilities accessory to
residential structures be used for the storage of commercial vehicles or for
the parking of automobiles belonging to the employees, owners, tenants,
visitors or customers of business or manufacturing establishments, except as
permitted in this §§
158.118 through
158.122 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-3-1)
§ 158.118 JOINT PARKING FACILITIES.
   Off-street parking facilities for different buildings, structures or uses,
or for mixed uses, may be provided collectively in any zoning district in which
separate parking facilities for each constituent use would be permitted;
provided that, the total number of spaces so located together shall not be less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each use.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-3-2)
§ 158.119 LOCATION OF PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Off-street automobile parking facilities shall be located as
hereinafter specified.
   (B)   Where a distance is specified, such distance shall be walking distance
measured from the nearest point of the parking area to the nearest entrance of
the building that said parking area is required to serve:
      (1)   For one- and two-family dwellings, on the same lot with the
building they are required to serve;
      (2)   For three- and four-family dwellings not over two stories in
height, on the same lot or parcel of land as the building they are required to
serve. For the purposes of this requirement, a group of such uses constructed
and maintained under single ownership or management shall be assumed to be on a
single lot or parcel of land;
      (3)   For apartment houses containing four or more dwelling units, on the
same lot or parcel of land as the building they are required to serve, or on a
separate lot or parcel of land not more than 300 feet from the nearest entrance
to the main building being served; provided, the lot or parcel of land selected
for the parking facilities is located in an apartment district or a less
restricted district;
      (4)   For rooming houses, lodging houses, clubs, hospitals, sanitariums,
orphanages, homes for the aged, convalescent homes, dormitories, sorority and
fraternity houses and for other similar uses, the off-street parking facilities
required shall be on the same lot or parcel of land as the main building or
buildings being served, or upon properties contiguous to the zoning lot upon
which is located the building or buildings they are intended to serve; and
      (5)   For uses other than those specified above, off-street parking
facilities shall be provided on the same lot or parcel of land as the main
building being served, or on a separate lot or parcel of land not over 1,000
feet from the entrance of the main building, measured from the nearest point of
the parking area; provided, the separate lot or parcel of land intended for the
parking facilities is located in B or M districts.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-3-3)
§ 158.120 ACCESSORY OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Off-site parking facilities. When required accessory off-street
parking facilities are provided elsewhere than on the lot on which the
principal use served is located, they shall be in the same possession, either
by deed or long-term lease, as the property occupied by such principal use, and
the owner shall be bound by covenants filed of record in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds or the Registrar of Titles of the county, requiring the owner
and his or her heirs and assigns to maintain the required number of parking
spaces during the existence of said principal use.
   (B)   Permitted districts for accessory parking. Accessory parking
facilities provided elsewhere than on the same zoning lot with the principal
use served, in accordance with §
158.123 of this chapter, may be located in any zoning district, except as
follows.
      (1)   No parking facilities accessory to an apartment use shall be
located in an R-1, R-2 or R-3 District.
      (2)   No parking facilities accessory to a business or manufacturing use
shall be located in a residential district, except when authorized by the
village’s Board of Trustees as hereinafter prescribed.
      (3)   No parking facilities accessory to a manufacturing use shall be
permitted in a B-1 District.
   (C)   Non-residential parking in residential districts. Accessory off-street
parking facilities serving non-residential uses of property may be permitted in
an R-6 District when authorized by the village’s Board of Trustees, subject to
the following requirements in addition to all other relevant requirements of
this chapter.
      (1)   The parking lot shall be accessory to and for use in connection
with one or more non- residential establishments located in adjoining districts
or in connection with one or more existing professional or institutional office
buildings or institutions.
      (2)   Said parking lot shall be used solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles.
      (3)   No commercial repair work or service of any kind shall be conducted
on said parking lot.
      (4)   No sign of any kind other than signs designating entrance, exits
and conditions of use shall be maintained on said parking lot.
      (5)   The parking lot may be open from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., and shall
be closed at all other times; provided, however, that, when supervised by one
or more full-time attendants, the parking lot may be kept open until 12:00
midnight.
      (6)   Each entrance to and exit from said parking lot shall be at least
20 feet distant from any adjacent property located in any residential district,
except where ingress and egress to the parking lot is provided from a public
alley or public way separating the residential areas from the proposed parking
lot.
      (7)   In addition to the foregoing requirements, such parking lots shall
conform to any further requirements and conditions as may be prescribed by the
village’s Board of Trustees for the protection of properties adjacent to and in
the vicinity of the proposed parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-3-4)
§ 158.121 DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Size of parking spaces. A required off-street parking space shall be
an area of not less than 162 square feet nor less than eight and one-half feet
wide by 19 feet long, exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns or
office and work areas, accessible from streets or alleys or from private
driveways or aisles leading to streets or alleys and to be used for the storage
of parking of passenger automobiles or commercial vehicles under one and one-
half tons’ capacity. Aisles between vehicular parking spaces shall be not less
than 12 feet in width when serving automobiles parked at a 45-degree angle in
one direction, nor less than 20 feet in width when serving automobiles parked
perpendicular to the aisles and accommodating two-way traffic.
   (B)   Determination of number of spaces. When determination of the number of
required off-street parking spaces results in a requirement of a fractional
space, any fraction up to and including one-half shall be interpreted as one
parking space.
   (C)   Open and enclosed spaces. Parking areas may be open or enclosed;
except that, when parking facilities accessory to a multiple dwelling are
located in a residential or B-1 or B-2 District elsewhere than on the same
zoning lot with the principal use served, such parking facilities shall be open
to the sky.
   (D)   Access to streets. Parking facilities shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in such a manner as
will least interfere with the movement of traffic. No driveway or curb cut in
any district shall exceed 35 feet in width.
   (E)   Signs. No signs shall be displayed in any parking area within any
residential district, except such as may be necessary for the orderly use of
the parking facilities.
   (F)   Required setbacks.
      (1)   No parking space, nor portion thereof, established on the same
zoning lot with a building shall be located within a required front yard.
      (2)   No parking space, nor portion thereof, established on a zoning lot
without a building shall be located closer to any street line than the
established building line on adjacent properties, nor closer than the front
yard setback required for the district in which the parking lot is located.
      (3)   Further, any wall, fence or hedge developed around any parking area
shall be subject to the front yard setback requirements of this chapter in the
same manner as a building or structure.
   (G)   Surfacing.
      (1)   All open off-street parking areas shall be improved with a
compacted macadam base not less than six inches thick, surfaced with asphaltic
concrete or some comparable all-weather, dustless material not less than two
inches thick compacted.
      (2)   Portland cement concrete having a thickness of not less than five
inches for residential and six inches for business or industry may be
substituted in lieu of the above requirement.
   (H)   Screening and landscaping.
      (1)   All open off-street parking areas of six or more cars shall be
effectively screened by a wall, a solid fence or a densely planted compact
hedge along any side which adjoins or is directly across a street or alley from
a property in a residential district or an institutional property.
      (2)   Such wall, fence or hedge shall be at least four feet, but not more
than seven feet, in height and shall be maintained in good condition.
   (I)   Lighting. Provide adequate lighting, and any lighting used to
illuminate an off-street parking area shall be so arranged as to reflect the
light away from adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-3-5) (Ord. 01-162, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 158.122 SPECIAL USE PUBLIC PARKING AREAS.
   Any automobile parking area developed for transient trade and not accessory
to specific main uses or groups of uses for which parking is required by this
chapter, shall be treated as a special use, as defined in §
158.006 of this chapter and as allowed in accordance with the provisions of §§
158.175 through
158.179 of this chapter by the village’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-3-6)
§ 158.123 SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
Airports, railroad passenger stations, bus depots or   Such parking space as the village’s Board of Trustees, subject to the
other passenger terminal facilities (special uses)     recommendations of the Plan Commission, shall deem to be adequate for
                                                       employees, passengers, spectators, visitors and others
Banks, business or professional offices or public      1 parking space for each 400 square feet of floor area
administration buildings
                                                       5 parking spaces for each alley, plus 1 parking space for each 200
Bowling alleys                                         square feet of floor area devoted to affiliated uses such as bars,
                                                       restaurants and the like
Church, high school, college and university            1 parking space for each 3 seats provided in said building or structure
auditoriums
Convention hails, dance halls, skating rinks, assembly Parking spaces equal in number to 30% of the capacity in persons shall
halls, exhibition halls or other places of assembly    be provided
Establishments handling the sale and consumption on    Parking spaces equal in number to 30% of the capacity in persons shall
the premises of alcoholic beverages, food or           be provided
refreshments
Fraternities, sororities and dormitories               1 parking space for each 3 active members, plus 1 additional space for
                                                       housemother or manager
Furniture and appliance stores, motor vehicle sales,
wholesale stores, household equipment or furniture
repair shops or machinery sales, having more than      1 parking space for each 400 square feet of floor area over and above
2,000 square feet of floor area under one roof         2,000 square feet.
(individual stores or groups of stores in one
building)
                                                       1 parking space for each 2 hospital beds, plus 1 parking space for each
Hospitals                                              1,500 square feet of gross floor area in residents’ quarters, plus 1
                                                       additional space for each staff or visiting doctor
                                                       1 parking space for each 4 guests or 1 parking space for each sleeping
                                                       room or suite, plus such additional space as shall be deemed necessary
Hotels and clubs                                       by the Building Commissioner because of any supplementary parking-
                                                       generative activities such as bars, ballrooms, dining rooms, nightclub
                                                       facilities and the like
Lodging, rooming and boarding houses                   1 parking space for each 4 guests, plus 1 additional space for the
                                                       owner or manager if resident on the premises
Manufacturing and industrial uses; research and
testing laboratories; laundry and dry-cleaning plants; 1 parking space for each 3 employees based upon the maximum number of
printing, binding, publishing and issuing of           persons to be employed at any one work period during the day or night,
newspapers, periodicals, books and other reading       plus such additional parking facilities as shall be required for all
matter; warehouses and storage buildings; engraving    vehicles used in the conduct of the enterprise
shops; assembly of materials and products; and other
similar uses
Medical or dental clinics                              5 parking spaces per doctor engaged at the clinic
                                                       8 parking spaces for each room used as a chapel or parlor, plus 1 space
Mortuaries or funeral parlors                          for each funeral vehicle maintained on the premises, plus 1 space for
                                                       each family residing on the premises
1-family dwellings                                     1 parking space for each family dwelling unit
Planned business center developments as defined in §  Not less than 6 off-street parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of
158.006 of this chapter                                gross floor space, plus 1 off-street parking space for each 2 employees
                                                       occupied on the premises
Private clubs or lodges (without sleeping rooms)       Parking spaces equal in number to 25% of the total membership
Retail stores and service shops other than planned
business center developments as defined in §          1 parking space for each 300 square feet of retail floor area over and
158.006 of this chapter (individual or in groups)      above 2,000 square feet
under one roof having a total floor area of 2,000
square feet devoted to retail sales
Sanitariums, convalescent homes or homes for the aged  1 parking space for each 4 patient beds, plus 1 additional space for
                                                       each staff or visiting doctor
Stadia, sports arenas, auditoriums and gymnasiums      Parking spaces equal in number to 30% of the capacity in persons shall
(other than incidental to a school)                    be provided
Theater, outdoor                                       Reserve space equal to 10% of the capacity
Theaters, indoor                                       1 parking space for each 6 seats up to 400, plus 1 parking space for
                                                       each 4 seats above 400
Tourist homes, cabins or motels                        Parking space for each guest or sleeping room or suite, plus 1
                                                       additional space for the owner or manager on the premises
Trailer courts or camps                                1 parking space for each trailer space
2 or more family dwellings                             2 parking spaces for each family dwelling unit
 
(Prior Code, § 10-9-4) (Ord. passed 3-28-1972)
§ 158.124 OFF-STREET LOADING REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General description of a loading berth. An off-street loading berth
shall be a hard-surfaced area of land, open or enclosed, other than a street or
a public way, used principally for the standing, loading or unloading of motor
trucks, tractors and trailers so as to avoid undue interference with the public
use of streets and alleys.
   (B)   Size. A required loading space shall be not less than ten feet in
width, 25 feet in length and 14 feet in height, exclusive of access aisles and
maneuvering space, except as otherwise specifically dimensioned hereafter.
   (C)   Determination of number of berths. When determination of the number of
required off-street loading berths results in a requirement of a fractional
berth, any fraction up to and including one-half shall be disregarded, and
fractions over one-half shall be interpreted as one loading berth.
   (D)   Location.
      (1)   No permitted or required loading berth shall be closer than 50 feet
to any property in a residential district unless completely enclosed by
building walls, or a uniformly painted solid fence or wall, or any combination
thereof not less than six feet in height.
      (2)   No permitted or required loading berth shall be located within 25
feet of the nearest point of intersection of any two streets.
      (3)   Loading berths open to the sky may be located in any required
yards.
   (E)   Surfacing. All open off-street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted macadam base, not less than seven inches thick, surfaced with not
less than two inches of asphaltic concrete or some comparable all-weather,
dustless material.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-5)
§ 158.125 SCHEDULE OF LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   In all districts where property uses include the loading and unloading of
materials or merchandise from vehicles, off-street loading and unloading
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the following requirements:
 
Banks, business or professional offices 1 off-street loading and unloading
or public administration buildings      space, plus 1 additional such space for
containing 40,000 to 100,000 square     each additional 100,000 square feet of
feet of gross floor area                gross floor area or fraction thereof in
                                        excess of 100,000 square feet
Buildings containing bowling alleys,    1 off-street loading and unloading
taverns, restaurants or any retail      space, plus 1 additional such space for
shops and having 10,000 to 100,000      each additional 100,000 square feet of
square feet of gross floor area         gross floor area or fraction thereof in
                                        excess of 100,000 square feet
Buildings containing furniture and      1 off-street loading and unloading
appliance stores, motor vehicle sales,  space, plus 1 additional space for each
wholesale stores, household equipment   additional 25,000 square feet of gross
or machinery sales and having 8,000 to  floor area or fraction thereof in
25,000 square feet of gross floor area  excess of 25,000 square feet
Buildings containing manufacturing
uses; research and testing
laboratories; laundry and dry-cleaning
establishments; printing, binding,
publishing and issuing of newspapers,
periodicals, books and other reading    1 off-street loading and unloading
matter; warehouse and storage           space, plus 1 additional such space for
facilities; engraving shops; assembly   each additional 60,000 square feet of
of materials and products; processing   gross floor area in excess of 40,000
and distribution of materials and       square feet.
products; and other similar uses having
more than 10,000 square feet of gross
floor area, exclusive of basement area
and less than 40,000 square feet of
gross floor area
                                        1 off-street loading and unloading
Hospitals or sanitariums containing     space, plus 1 additional such space for
40,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross  each additional 100,000 square feet of
floor area                              gross floor area or fraction thereof in
                                        excess of 100,000 square feet
 
(Prior Code, § 10-9-6)
SIGNS
§ 158.140 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   Any publicly displayed sign, symbol or notice on a premises to advertise the
business there transacted, or name of person or firm conducting said business
on premises, or directing to some other locale, shall be regulated as in this
subchapter provided.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-1)
§ 158.141 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter are declared to be further restricted by
all other applicable ordinances of the village, it being the intent of the
village to make the more restrictive provisions apply.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-2)
§ 158.142 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted signs. In an R district, the following signs shall be
permitted:
      (1)   For each dwelling unit, one nameplate not exceeding one square foot
in area, indicating name of occupant;
      (2)   For a structure other than a dwelling unit, one identification sign
not exceeding eight square feet, except a church bulletin board which shall not
exceed 18 square feet; and
      (3)   For purpose of orientation, directional signs when established by
the village, not exceeding two square feet. No advertising sign of any other
character shall be permitted.
   (B)   Prohibited signs. It shall be unlawful to place any outdoor
advertising sign or display within a residential district classified as Single-
Family Residential District R-1, R-2 and R-3, and Multiple-Family Residential
R-4, R-5 and R-6, as defined in this chapter; except that, “For Sale Signs” for
existing structures shall be permitted in residential districts subject to the
following: there shall not be more than one sign per zoning lot except that on
a corner lot two signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted. No sign
shall exceed nine square feet, no sign shall be displayed on the parkway, and
no sign shall be placed more than ten feet from the front of the primary
residential structure on the property. A sold sign may be displayed on the
permitted sign, for a period not to exceed ten days. An open house sign may be
displayed on the property on the day of the open house and must be removed
immediately thereafter. Directional signs and/or flags are not authorized by
this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-3-1) (Ord. passed 3-20-1984; Ord. 99-113, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 158.143 SIGNS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   In a B district, the following signs shall be permitted:
   (A)   Any sign which pertains to a use conducted within the main building or
upon the premises and which is not physically attached beyond the boundaries of
the premises or on any part of a public way;
   (B)   Directional signs permitted in the R districts; and
   (C)   Outdoor temporary signs: temporary signs of a paper, plastic, wood or
fabric material are subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   No such sign shall be of a size larger than 31 feet by five feet
unless otherwise approved by the Building Department.
      (2)   No more than two signs per 3,000 square feet of existing business
structure shall be allowed.
      (3)   Special event signs, additional signs or signs larger than
previously specified must be approved by the Building Department on a 30-day
basis.
      (4)   All outdoor temporary signs must be neat and orderly in appearance.
Any tattered, torn or faded signs must be removed upon notification by the
Building Department.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-3-2) (Ord. passed 7-5-1983; Ord. 93-225, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 158.144 SIGNS IN MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS.
   In an M district, the following signs shall be permitted:
   (A)   Signs identifying the occupant of a building or buildings; and
   (B)   Directional signs permitted as in R districts.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-3-3)
§ 158.145 SIGNS IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   The following conditions shall be observed in all of the use districts.
   (A)   No sign shall be placed in a required front yard except as provided in
§
158.142(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provisions of this chapter, portable electric
signs of any kind are not permitted in any district.
   (C)   Portable signs shall be permitted on a temporary basis subject to the
following restrictions.
      (1)   No such portable sign shall be in any manner attached, connected or
otherwise supplied with electrical current.
      (2)   Portable signs shall be allowed for one 30-day period within any 12
months for special promotions in connection with a licensed business or
commercial establishment within the village.
      (3)   Prior to the use of any portable sign, a permit must be secured
through the village’s Building Department and the fee for such permit shall be
fixed at the sum of $50 for each 30-day display period.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-3-4) (Ord. passed 5-25-1976; Ord. 89-125, passed 10-11-
1989; Ord. 99-113, passed 7-6-1999)
ANTENNAS
§ 158.160 CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required; fee. The owner of any property upon which an antenna
is to be erected shall first obtain a permit from the village. The fee for such
permit shall be $50.
   (B)   Codes and regulations.
      (1)   All antennas shall comply with BOCA and FCC rules and requirements.
      (2)   All antennas utilizing standard line voltage electrical current or
erected for commercial or industrial users shall require compliance with all
electrical codes of the village and a permit for such installation shall
include an electrical inspection and the fee for same.
   (C)   Construction specifications.
      (1)   (a)   All antennas shall be constructed and erected in a secure and
wind-resistant manner.
         (b)   Further, all antennas shall be sufficiently wind-resistant to
withstand winds of 80 mph normally and 70 mph when combined with ice.
      (2)   Antennas shall be no larger in size than is required for the proper
reception or transmission of signals for the application for which such antenna
is erected.
   (D)   Installers. All installers of antennas must be bonded and licensed to
work in the village and maintain proof of insurance as normally required of
other contractors.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-1)
§ 158.161 GROUND-MOUNTED ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Ground-mounted antennas and structure shall not exceed the height
permitted of principal structures in the zoning district in which they are
located.
   (B)   All antennas shall be ground-mounted at the closest allowable location
to the ground except when a higher or different location is required for signal
reception. Additionally, all antennas shall meet height and location
requirements of the zoning regulations of the village for the zoning district
within which such antenna is located.
   (C)   The base of all ground-mounted antennas shall be screened by
landscaping to a minimum height of six feet above ground.
   (D)   (1)   Upon demonstration that a ground-mounted antenna is insufficient
for its intended use and upon application for special use and payment of the
appropriate fee, a roof-mounted antenna may be permitted to be constructed on
the premises.
      (2)   However, such antenna shall not exceed a height of 12 feet above
the height of the building to which it is attached in residential districts.
      (3)   In business and industrial districts, the maximum allowable height
shall be no more than 35 feet above the principal structure to which it is
attached.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-2)
§ 158.162 ZONING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Antennas shall be an allowable accessory use in all districts where
they are allowable as a principal use.
   (B)   Each antenna shall serve only the principal building located upon the
zoning lot on which said antenna is constructed pursuant to this chapter,
unless otherwise permitted by special use.
   (C)   All antennas located in residential districts and exceeding a width of
three feet shall be constructed so as to permit 50% transparency of light.
   (D)   No antenna may be located less than 50 feet from the front lot line of
the property, except when such antenna is attached to an existing steeple,
chimney or building equipment bulkhead.
   (E)   All setback restrictions otherwise applicable to accessory structures
in the appropriate zoning district shall be applicable to ground-mounted
antennas.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-4) (Ord. 87-138, passed 11-24-1987)
SPECIAL USES
§ 158.175 PURPOSE.
   The principal objective of these zoning regulations is to provide for an
orderly arrangement of compatible building and land uses, and for the proper
location of all types of uses required for the social and economic welfare of
the village. To accomplish this objective, each type and kind of use is
classified as permitted in one or more of the various districts established by
this chapter. However, in addition to those uses specifically classified and
permitted in each district, there are certain additional uses which it may be
necessary to allow because of their unusual characteristics or the service they
provide the public. These special uses require particular considerations as to
their proper location in relation to adjacent established or intended uses, or
to the planned development of the community. The conditions controlling the
location and operation of such special uses are established by the following
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-1)
§ 158.176 PERMITTED SPECIAL USES; AUTHORITY.
   The village’s Board of Trustees shall have authority to permit the following
uses of land or structures, or both, subject to conditions contained herein, if
it finds that the proposed location and establishment of any such use will be
desirable or necessary to the public convenience or welfare and will be
harmonious and compatible with other uses adjacent to and in the vicinity of
the selected site or sites:
                                                                 In any use district subject to the Federal Aviation
Airport, heliport, landing field or landing strip                Administration certifying that a new or reoriented runway
                                                                 will not interfere with the flight pattern of any
                                                                 established airport, landing field or landing strip
Amusement establishments - pool halls, dance halls, pinball
halls and other similar places of recreation when conducted      In any B-3 District
wholly within a completely enclosed building
Areas for the dumping or disposal of trash or garbage            In M districts only
Auditoriums, stadiums, arenas, armories, gymnasiums and other    In any B or M district
similar places for public events
Automobile service stations                                       
Bus terminals, railroad passenger stations, freight terminals or In any B or M district
any other public transportation terminal facilities
Cemeteries, crematories or mausoleums                            In any use district
Extraction of gravel, sand or other raw materials                In any M district
                                                                 In any R district; provided, the Zoning Board of Appeals
                                                                 finds that the operator of the proposed family community
                                                                 residence has shown that it will provide adequate life-
Family community residences for which the state does not require safety protections for residents similar to those required
a license or certification                                       of community residences for which the state mandates a
                                                                 license or certification, and that staff will be adequately
                                                                 trained and monitored to assure that residents are not
                                                                 mistreated
                                                                 In any R district, provided the Zoning Board of Appeals
Family community residences to be located within 900 feet of any finds that locating within 900 feet of an existing community
existing community residence, as measured from lot line to lot   residence is unlikely to produce any adverse impacts or
line                                                             hinder normalization of the residents of the existing or
                                                                 proposed community residence
Golf courses, public or private                                  In any use district
                                                                 In any R district, a group community residence may not be
                                                                 located within 900 feet of an existing community residence,
                                                                 as measured from lot line to lot line unless the Zoning
Group community residences                                       Board of Appeals finds that locating within 900 feet of an
                                                                 existing community residence is unlikely to produce any
                                                                 adverse impacts or hinder normalization of residents of the
                                                                 existing or proposed community residence
Guns, firearms or ammunition; sale or repair                     In any B-3 District
Hospitals or sanitariums, public or private                      In any use district other than an M district
Municipal or privately-owned recreation                          In any use district, buildings or community centers
                                                                 In any R-5 or R-6 District; provided, there is a need for
Off-street public parking areas and garages                      its facility and that no appropriate site is available in
                                                                 nearby business or manufacturing districts
Planned developments as defined in §                            In accordance with procedures and conditions outlined in §
158.006 of this chapter                                          158.179 of this chapter
Police stations or fire stations                                 In any use district
Public buildings including art galleries, libraries, museums or  In any R-6 or B-2 District
similar structures
Public or private parks, playgrounds or private clubs            In any use district
Public utility facilities (i.e., filtration plant, water         In any use district other than the M district where such
reservoir or pumping station, heat or power plant, transformer   facilities are permissive uses
station and other similar facilities)
Public- or privately-owned and operated fairgrounds, permanent   In any B-3 or M District
carnivals, “Kiddie parks” or other similar amusement centers
Radio and television transmitting or antenna towers (commercial)
and other electronic equipment requiring outdoor structures and
including antenna towers used for the sending of private         In any B or M District
messages, but not including private receiving aerials or
antennas
Railroad rights-of-way                                           In any use district
Rest homes and nursing homes                                     In any R-5, R-6 or B District. Rest homes and nursing homes
                                                                 shall not exceed 1 story in height
Schools - elementary, high and college, public or private        In any R district
Telephone exchanges, antenna towers and other outdoor equipment  In any R-4 and R-5 District in addition to the B and M
essential to the operation of the exchange                       districts where such facilities are permissive uses
Trailer camps (house trailers) or trailer parks                  In any M district
 
(Prior Code, § 10-12-2) (Ord. passed 3-18-1975; Ord. passed 11-23-1976; Ord.
90-140, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 158.177 PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL.
   The procedure to be followed in considering applications for special uses
shall be as follows.
   (A)   Application for special use. An application, verified by the owner or
authorized agent of the owner of the property involved, shall be filed with the
Village Clerk for the attention of the Zoning Board of Appeals upon a form
prescribed therefor, which shall contain or be accompanied by all required
information.
   (B)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Upon receipt of such verified application, the Village Clerk shall
notify the Chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals, or in his or her absence
the Vice-Chairperson, who shall give notice of a public hearing in the same
manner as provided for hearings on the reclassification of property as
contained in §§
158.193 and
158.194 of this chapter.
      (2)   A record of pertinent information presented at the public hearing
shall be made and maintained by the Zoning Board of Appeals as part of the
permanent record relative to the application.
   (C)   Recommendations and action by village officials. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall then make its finding and recommendations to the village’s Board
of Trustees within 30 days following the date of public hearing on each
application. The Board of Trustees may then authorize a special use, as defined
herein, by specific ordinance; provided, the evidence presented is such as to
establish beyond reasonable doubt:
      (1)   The proposed use at the particular location requested is necessary
or desirable to provide a service or a facility which is in the interest of
public convenience and will contribute to the general welfare of the
neighborhood or community;
      (2)   Such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case,
be detrimental to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of persons
residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property values or
improvements in the vicinity; and
      (3)   The proposed use will comply with the regulations and conditions
specified in this chapter for such use, and with the stipulations and
conditions made a part of the authorization granted by the village’s Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-3)
§ 158.178 CONDITIONS OF SPECIAL USE.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend, and the village’s Board of
Trustees may impose, such restrictions upon the height, bulk and area of the
occupancy of any structure so approved for special use as may be reasonable
under the particular circumstances; provided that, such restrictions and
stipulations shall not be more restrictive than the requirements established
for the district in which such structure is proposed to be located, or as may
be required in any municipal code.
   (B)   Off-street parking facilities as well as off-street loading and
unloading spaces may also be stipulated in the order permitting the special
use.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-4)
§ 158.179 PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS OTHER THAN PLANNED BUSINESS CENTERS.
   (A)   Purpose. Planned developments, as defined in §
158.006 of this chapter, are of such substantially different character from
other special uses that specific and additional standards and exceptions are
hereby set out to govern the recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals and
the action of the village’s Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Use exceptions.
      (1)   In the case of residential, business or manufacturing planned
developments, the Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend and the village’s Board
of Trustees may authorize that there be in part of the area of such development
and for the duration of such development, specified uses not permitted by the
use regulations of the district in which said development is located.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall find:
         (a)   The uses permitted by such exception are necessary or desirable
and are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development;
         (b)   The uses permitted by such exception are not of such a nature or
so located as to exercise a detrimental influence on the surrounding
neighborhood;
         (c)   Not more than 20% of the ground area or of the gross floor area
of such development shall be devoted to the uses permitted by said exception;
and
         (d)   In a manufacturing planned development, such additional uses
allowed by exception shall conform with the performance standards of the
district in which the development is located.
   (C)   Exceptions to bulk regulations.
      (1)   In the case of any planned development, the Zoning Board of Appeals
may recommend and the village’s Board of Trustees may authorize exceptions to
the applicable bulk regulations of this chapter within the boundaries of such
development.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall find:
         (a)   Such exception shall be solely for the purpose of promoting an
integrated site plan no less beneficial to the residents or occupants of such
development as well as to neighboring properties than would be obtained under
the bulk regulations of this chapter for buildings developed on separate zoning
lots;
         (b)   The overall bulk of buildings of the development shall not
exceed that prescribed in this chapter for the district in which it is located;
         (c)   The minimum lot area per dwelling unit requirements of this
chapter shall be adhered to in any such development containing residential
uses, and that there shall be available to each residential building and
immediately adjacent thereto (including the land area upon which it is
erected), the minimum amount of land area required under this chapter;
         (d)   Spacing between principal buildings shall be at least equivalent
to such spacing as would be required between buildings similarly developed
under the terms of this chapter on separate zoning lots, due consideration
being given to the openness normally afforded by intervening streets and
alleys; and
         (e)   Along the periphery of such planned developments, yards shall be
provided as required by the regulations of the district in which said
development is located.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-5)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 158.190 ENFORCEMENT; OFFICIAL AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty of the administrative officer designated by the Village
President and Board of Trustees to enforce this chapter. Appeal from the
decisions of the administrative officer may be made to the Board of Appeals as
provided in §
158.193 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-1)
§ 158.191 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Certificates of occupancy required.
      (1)   Subsequent to the effective date hereof, no change in the use or
occupancy of the land, nor any change of use or occupancy in the existing
building, other than for single-family dwelling purposes, shall be made, nor
shall any new building be occupied for any purpose until a certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the administrative officer. Every certificate of
occupancy shall state that the new occupancy complies with all provisions of
this chapter.
      (2)   No permit for excavation for, or the erection or alteration of, any
building shall be issued before the application has been made for certificate
of occupancy and compliance, and no building or premises shall be occupied
until that certificate and permit is issued.
      (3)   A certificate of occupancy is required for each unit in a two-
family or multiple-family dwelling structure.
      (4)   (a)   No dwelling unit shall be occupied as a community residence
until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Zoning Officer. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a community residence unless:
            1.   The community residence is located at least 900 feet from any
existing community residence, as measured from lot line to lot line, except
when a special use permit is issued to allow a community residence to locate
closer than 900 feet to an existing community residence; and
            2.   The applicant demonstrates that the applicant, operator, or
proposed community residence has either obtained or is eligible for licensing
or certification required by the state to operate the proposed community
residence, except when a special use permit has been issued for a community
residence for which the state does not require a license or certification.
         (b)   The Zoning Officer may revoke a certificate of occupancy for a
community residence if its license or certification, or the operator’s license
or certification to operate community residences, is revoked. A certificate of
occupancy is not transferable to another operator or to another location.
   (B)   Records kept. A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept
on file in the office of the administrative officer, and copies shall be
furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in
land or in a building affected by such certificate of occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-2) (Ord. 90-140, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 158.192 PLATS.
   Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a plat in
duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built
upon, the size, shape and location of the building to be erected, and such
other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this
chapter. A record of applications and plats shall be kept in the office of the
administrative officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-3)
§ 158.193 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS; APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Definition. The word BOARD, when used in this section, shall be
construed to mean the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the administrative officer, and
its action shall be subject to final approval by the Village President and
Board of Trustees.
      (2)   It shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon
which it is required to pass under this chapter.
      (3)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly or may modify or
amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from to the
extent and in the manner that the Board may decide to be fitting and proper in
the premises, and to that end the Board shall also have all the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal is taken, subject, however, to final approval by
the Village President and Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Board the power or authority to alter or change the zoning regulations or the
district map, such power and authority being reserved to the Village Board; nor
shall anything contained herein be construed to give to the Board the power or
authority to give final approval on any appeal for a variance, such power and
authority being expressly reserved to the Village Board.
   (C)   Board decisions; validity.
      (1)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
administrative officer or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is authorized by this chapter to render a decision. Copies of all
findings, orders and decisions of the Board shall be transmitted to the
village’s Board of Trustees for its final approval.
      (2)   No order of the Board permitting the erection of a building shall
be valid for a period longer than one year, unless a building permit for such
erection or alteration is obtained within such period and such erection or
alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms
of such permit.
      (3)   No order of the Board permitting a use of a building or premises
shall be valid for a period longer than one year unless such use is established
within such period; provided, however, that, where such use permitted is
dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, such order shall
continue in force and effect if a building permit for said erection or
alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms
of such permit.
   (D)   Appeal for variance.
      (1)   An appeal for a variance may be taken to the Zoning Board of
Appeals by any person, firm or corporation, or by any officer, department,
board or bureau of the village affected by a decision of the administrative
officer. Such appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by
the Zoning Board of Appeals by general rule, by filing with the administrative
officer and with the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal, specifying the
grounds thereof. The administrative officer shall forth with transmit to the
Board all of the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken.
      (2)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the administrative officer certifies to the Board of
Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall
not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
Board of Appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the
administrative officer and on due cause shown.
      (3)   The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing
of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a
decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and
testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney.
   (E)   Notices regarding variations.
      (1)   Notice of public hearing. The Board shall make no variation, except
in a specific case and after a public hearing conducted by the Board. A notice
of the time and place of such public hearing shall be published in a paper of
general circulation in the village not more than 30, nor less than 15, days
before the hearing. Such notice shall contain the address or location of the
property for which the variation or other ruling by the Board is sought, as
well as a brief description of the nature of the appeal.
      (2)   Notice to property owners. In addition, the following notices shall
be given: the applicant, at the time of filing the application for variation or
change, shall furnish to the Village Clerk a list containing the names and
addresses of each of the recorded owners, as shown by the Recorder of Deeds or
Registrar of Titles in the county, of all property within 250 feet of any part
of the lot line of the applicant’s property for which the variation or change
is requested. The Village Clerk shall serve written notice by U.S. postal card
on said owners of record. Such notice shall be mailed at least seven days prior
to the date of the hearing of applicant’s petition and shall contain the post
office address or other description of the applicant’s property, a brief
statement of the nature of the requested variation or change, the name and
address of the applicant and the date, time and place of the hearing on said
application.
   (F)   Standards for and enumeration of variances. When a property owner
shows that a strict application of the terms of this chapter relating to the
use, construction or alteration of buildings or structures, or to the use of
land, imposes upon him or her practical difficulties or practical hardships,
then the Board may make such variations of the strict application of the terms
of this chapter as are in harmony with its general purpose and intent when the
Board is satisfied, under the evidence heard before it, that a granting of such
variation will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant but is
necessary to alleviate some demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as to
warrant a variation of the following instances:
      (1)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in single ownership, as shown of record;
      (2)   To permit the reconstruction of a non-conforming building which has
been destroyed or damaged to an extent of more than 60% of its value by fire or
act of God or the public enemy, where the Board shall find some compelling
public necessity requiring a continuance of the non-conforming use, and in no
case shall such a permit be issued if its primary function is to continue a
monopoly;
      (3)   To permit the erection and use of a building or the use of premises
in any location for a public service corporation for public utility purposes
which the Board deems reasonably necessary for the public convenience or
welfare;
      (4)   To make a variance where, by reason of an exceptional situation,
surroundings or condition of a specific piece of property, or by reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property of
record, or by reason of exceptional topographical conditions, the strict
application of any provision of this chapter would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties or particular hardship upon the owner of
such property and amount to a practical confiscation of property as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience to such owner; provided, such relief
can be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the general purpose and intent of the comprehensive
plan as established by the regulations and provisions contained in this code;
      (5)   To interpret the provisions of this chapter where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the district
map fixing the several districts;
      (6)   To permit lots that were of record at the time of the passage of
this chapter and which contain less area than the intensity of use requirements
of the dwelling district in which they are located to be used for single-family
dwellings and to vary the side yard regulations for such lots, but only when
the owner or owners of such lots furnish substantial proof of the inability to
acquire, or to acquire at a reasonable price, additional land adjoining the lot
which would be necessary to provide the required lot area;
      (7)   To extend the period within which a non-conforming commercial or
industrial use is to be removed from a dwelling district when the owner or
owners can furnish substantial proof that the building was so extensively
remodeled, reconstructed or structurally altered after the original
construction that it practically resulted in a new building, but such extension
of the period shall not exceed 40 years from the date of such remodeling,
reconstruction or structural alteration;
      (8)   To waive the parking requirements in the commercial, business or
industrial districts whenever the character or use of the building is such as
to make unnecessary the full provision of parking facilities or where such
regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon the use of the lot as
contrasted with merely granting an advantage or a convenience; and
      (9)   To permit land within 200 feet of a multiple dwelling to be
improved for the parking spaces required in connection with a multiple
dwelling, but only when there is positive assurance that such land can be used
for such purpose during the existence of the multiple dwelling.
   (G)   Conditions. In considering all appeals and all proposed variations to
this chapter, the Board shall, before making any variation from this chapter in
a specific case, first determine that the proposed variation will not impair an
adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property, or unreasonably increase
the congestion in public streets, or increase the danger of fire or endanger
the public safety, or unreasonably diminish or impair established property
values within the surrounding area, or in any other respect impair the public
health, safety, comfort, morals or welfare of the inhabitants of the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-4)
§ 158.194 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   The Village President and the Board of Trustees may from time to
time amend, supplement or change by ordinance the boundaries of districts or
regulations herein established.
      (2)   Any amendment, supplement or change shall first be submitted to the
Plan Commission for its recommendations and report.
   (B)   Proceedings.
      (1)   A public hearing shall be held by the Zoning Board of Appeals and,
within 30 days of such hearing, it shall report to the Village Board any
proposed amendments or special uses, notice of which hearing shall be given by
publishing in some newspaper of general circulation not more than 30 days, nor
less than 15 days, before the hearing, stating the time and place of such
hearing. In case of written protest against any proposed amendment signed by
the owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be altered or by the owners of
20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by
the owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be
altered as to such regulations or district and filed with the Village Board,
such amendments shall not be passed, except by the favorable vote of two-thirds
of all the Trustees.
      (2)   In addition, the following notices shall be given: the applicant,
at the time of filing the application for a variation or change, shall furnish
to the Village Clerk a list containing the names and last known addresses of
each of the recorded owners, as shown by the Recorder of Deeds or Registrar of
Titles in the county, of all property within 250 feet of any part of the lot
line of the applicant’s property for which the variation or change is
requested. The Village Clerk shall serve written notice by U.S. postal card on
said owners of record. Such notice shall be mailed at least seven days prior to
the date of the hearing of applicant’s petition and shall contain the post
office address of the applicant’s property, a brief statement of the nature of
the requested variation or change, the name and address of the applicant and
the date, time and place of the hearing on said application.
   (C)   Additional requirements. All applications for change in districts or
uses for land held in trust or where the application is made in the name of a
trustee shall require the disclosure of the names and addresses of the
beneficiaries of the trust.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-5)
§ 158.195 FEES.
   (A)   Certificates of occupancy. A fee of $10 shall be paid to the
administrative officer for each certificate of occupancy issued.
   (B)   Appeal for variance. A fee of $100 shall be paid to the administrative
officer at the time the notice of appeal for variance is filed, which the
administrative officer shall forthwith pay over to the Village Treasurer to the
credit of the General Revenue Fund of the village.
   (C)   Amendments. Before any action regarding amendments shall be taken as
provided in §
158.194 of this chapter, the party or parties proposing or recommending a
change or special use in the district regulations or district boundaries shall
deposit with the Village Clerk the sum of $250 to cover the approximate cost of
this procedure, and under no condition shall said sum or any part thereof be
refunded for failure of said amendment to be enacted into law.
   (D)   Antennas. The fees shall be a minimum of $50, plus $22 for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-6) (Ord. passed 3-14-1972; Ord. 86-102, passed 1-13-1986;
Ord. 87-138, passed 11-24-1987)
§ 158.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined in accordance with §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-7)
CHAPTER 159: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
Permanent Private Residential Swimming Pools
   
159.001   Definition
   
159.002   Compliance
   
159.003   Permit requirements
   
159.004   Drawings and plans
   
159.005   Location
   
159.006   Design and construction
   
159.007   Recirculation and filtering
   
159.008   Inlets, outlets and make-up water
   
159.009   Skimmers
   
159.010   Water supply and conditioning
   
159.011   Electrical equipment
   
159.012   Steps or ladders
   
159.013   Diving boards
   
159.014   Walks
   
159.015   Fences
   
159.016   Operation and maintenance
   
159.017   Inspections
Temporary Private Swimming Pools
   
159.030   Definition
   
159.031   Permit requirements
   
159.032   Drawings and plans
   
159.033   Location of pool and equipment
   
159.034   Recirculation and filtering
   
159.035   Water supply and conditioning
   
159.036   Electrical equipment
   
159.037   Safety precaution; fence required
   
159.038   Inspections
   
159.039   Conduct around swimming pool
PERMANENT PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS
§ 159.001 DEFINITION.
   (A)   The term PERMANENT PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL is hereby defined
as a receptacle for water, or an artificial pool of water having a depth at any
point of more than three feet intended for the purpose of immersion or partial
immersion therein of human beings, and including ail appurtenant equipment
constructed, installed and maintained in or above the ground outside of a
building used for a single-family dwelling unit; provided further that, such
private residential swimming pool is maintained by an individual primarily for
the sole use of his or her household and guests and not for the purpose of
profit or in connection with any business operated for profit.
   (B)   No out-of-doors swimming pool intended for the use of members and
their guests of a non-profit club or organization, or limited to house
residents of a multiple dwelling unit, a block subdivision, neighborhood,
community or other specified area of residence shall be permitted in any
residential district.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-1)
§ 159.002 COMPLIANCE.
   Every permanent private residential swimming pool constructed, installed and
maintained hereafter shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter and
with the provisions of all other applicable ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-2)
§ 159.003 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful to proceed with the
construction, installation, enlargement or alteration of any private
residential swimming pool and appurtenances within the village unless permits
therefor shall have first been obtained from the Village Board.
   (B)   Permit fees. The fee for a permit for the erection or construction of
a swimming pool shall be $10 for each 1,000 cubic feet or fraction thereof to
be contained within the proposed pool as determined by the plans and
specifications submitted with the application for permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-3)
§ 159.004 DRAWINGS AND PLANS.
   (A)   All drawings and plans for the construction, installation, enlargement
or alteration of any private residential swimming pool and appurtenances for
which a permit is required shall first be presented to the Village Board for
examination and approval as to proper location, construction and use.
   (B)   All plans and drawings shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one-
eighth inch to the foot, on paper or cloth, in ink or by some process that will
not fade or obliterate. All distances and dimensions shall be accurately
figured and drawings made explicit and complete, showing the lot lines and
including information pertaining to the pool, walk and fence construction,
water supply system, drainage and water disposal systems, and all appurtenances
pertaining to the swimming pool. Detail plans and vertical elevations shall
also be provided in accordance with the Building Code of the village.
   (C)   All private residential swimming pools, appurtenances, water supply
and drainage systems shall be constructed in conformity with the approved
plans. If any deviations from such plans are desired, a supplementary plan
covering that portion of the work involved shall be filed for approval and
shall conform to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-4)
§ 159.005 LOCATION.
   (A)   Permanent private residential swimming pools shall be permitted in the
single-family district only.
   (B)   No portion of a private residential swimming pool shall be located at
a distance less than eight feet from any side or rear property line or building
line. Pumps, filters and pool water disinfecting equipment installations shall
be located at a distance of not less than eight feet from any side property
line. Pools and appurtenant equipment shall not be permitted in the side yard
between dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-5)
§ 159.006 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Materials.
      (1)   Private residential swimming pool walls and floors shall be
constructed of any impervious material which will provide a tight tank with
white or light colored finish and which provides an easily cleaned surface.
      (2)   Pool walls that are to be lined with a plastic liner shall be
constructed of masonry or reinforced concrete.
   (B)   Design.
      (1)   Residential swimming pools shall be designed to withstand the water
pressure from within and to resist the pressure of the earth when the pool is
empty, to a pressure of 2,200 pounds per square foot.
      (2)   Pool floor and walls:
         (a)   The slope of the bottom of any part of a pool in which the water
is less than five feet in depth shall not be more than one foot for each ten
feet. The maximum slope where water is five feet or more in depth shall not
exceed one foot in two feet.
         (b)   The floor or bottom surface of the pool shall have a non-slip
finish as smooth as possible.
         (c)   The side and end walls of a pool shall present a smooth finish
and shall be vertical to a depth of at least six feet or shall have a slope or
curvature meeting one of the following conditions.
            1.   The pool wall may be vertical for 30 inches from the water
level below which the wall may be curved to the bottom with a radius at any
point equal to the difference between the depth, at that point and 30 inches.
            2.   To a depth of six feet, except as in division (B)(2)(c)1.
above, the wall’s slope shall not be less than one foot horizontal in six feet
vertical.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-6)
§ 159.007 RECIRCULATION AND FILTERING.
   All private residential swimming pools shall be of the recirculation type in
which circulation of the water is maintained through the pool by pumps; the
water drawn from the pool being clarified and disinfected before being returned
to the pool.
   (A)   Private residential swimming pools’ recirculating systems shall
consist of pumping equipment, hair and lint catchers and filters, together with
the necessary pipe connections to the pool inlets and outlets, facilities and
pipe connections necessary for backwashing filters and facilities and equipment
for disinfecting the pool water.
   (B)   Every private residential swimming pool shall have a recirculating
system with an hourly capacity equal to the pool volume divided by eight.
   (C)   The recirculation system pump shall have a sufficient capacity to
discharge the volume of water required for an eight-hour turnover of the pool
against the maximum head in the recirculating system.
   (D)   The pump used for backwashing filters shall have sufficient capacity
to provide a filter backwash rate of at least 12 gallons per minute per square
foot of filter area.
   (E)   A hair and lint catcher or strainer shall be installed on the suction
side of the circulation pump to prevent hair, lint and other extraneous matter
from reaching the pump and filters. Hair and lint catchers shall be so designed
that they can be easily dismantled for cleaning and inspection and shall be so
located as to be easily accessible for cleaning. The design features shall be
as follows: water passes through the strainer from the outside; the strainer is
made of non-corrosive material; the width or diameter of strainer openings is
not more than one-eighth inch; or the area of the strainer openings shall be at
least five times the cross-sectional area of the inlet pipe to the strainer.
   (F)   Recirculating systems shall contain rapid pressure filters. Sufficient
filter area shall be provided to filter the entire contents of the pool in 18
hours at the rate of not more than three gallons per square foot of filter area
per minute. The filter backwashing facilities shall be sufficient to backwash
at a rate of 12 gallons per minute per square foot of filter area. All backwash
water and effluents shall be discharged to the sewer through an indirect
connection. Pressure filters shall be equipped with readily accessible air
relief valves, loss of head of pressure gauges on the inlet and outlet pipes
and an access head or hole large enough to permit inspection, maintenance and
repair work. Sight glasses that can be easily removed for cleaning shall be
provided in the effluent line from the filter units.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-7)
§ 159.008 INLETS, OUTLETS AND MAKE-UP WATER.
   (A)   Inlets. Private residential swimming pool water recirculation system
inlets shall be located so as to produce, so far as possible, uniform
circulation of water throughout the pool without the existence of dead spots
and to carry pool bottom deposits to the outlets, and shall discharge at a
minimum depth of ten inches below the pool overflow level. A minimum of one
recirculation system inlet shall be provided for every 615 square feet of
surface area of the pool.
   (B)   Make-up water.
      (1)   Pools shall be equipped with suitable facilities for adding make-up
water as needed. There shall be no physical connection between the water supply
line and the pool system. If the make-up water is added directly to the pool,
the outlet shall be at least six inches above the upper rim of the pool. If the
make-up water line discharges to surge or balancing tank, the point of
discharge shall be at least six inches above the rim of the tank. If a hose
connection from a sill cock or other plumbing fixture is to be used for
supplying make-up water, then an approved vacuum breaker shall be installed
between the sill cock or control valve at the fixture and the hose connection.
The vacuum breaker shall be installed at a height not less than seven feet six
inches above the floor, platform or ground upon which a person would stand when
operating the sill cock or control valve.
      (2)   The system supplying recirculating water and make-up water to the
pool shall be constructed in conformance with village ordinances.
   (C)   Outlets.
      (1)   In private residential swimming pools 30 feet in width or less,
water circulation system outlets shall be located so as to provide at least one
outlet at the deepest point in the pool. If the pool width is more than 30
feet, multiple outlets shall be provided and spaced not more than 30 feet
apart, nor closer than four feet to any wall.
      (2)   All pool drain outlets shall be equipped with gratings having an
area of openings not less than four times the cross-sectional area of the
outlet pipe. The gratings shall be of such design so they cannot be readily
removable by bathers and will not injure bathers’ fingers.
      (3)   One outlet shall be provided for each 800 square feet of surface
area.
      (4)   Pools shall be equipped with facilities for completely emptying the
pool and the discharge of the pool water to the sewer shall be at a rate not
exceeding 250 gallons per minute. No direct connection shall be made to the
sewer.
      (5)   Water drained from the pool shall not be discharged to the sewer
system during periods of rain or storms. At no time shall the rate of rain
water discharge exceed a flow of 250 gallons per minute.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-8)
§ 159.009 SKIMMERS.
   (A)   In every private residential swimming pool, at least one skimming
device shall be provided for each 800 square feet of surface area or fraction
thereof.
   (B)   Skimmers shall be located at least 30 feet apart.
   (C)   Handholds shall be provided and consist of a bull-nosed coping not
over two and one-half inches thick for the outer two inches or an equivalent
approved handhold. The handhold must be no more than nine inches above the
normal water line.
   (D)   Skimming devices shall be built into the pool wall, shall adequately
remove floating oils and wastes and shall meet the following general
specifications.
      (1)   Each skimmer shall be designed for a flow-through rate of at least
30 gallons per minute and a total capacity of all skimmers on any pool shall be
at least 50% of the required filter flow of the recirculation system.
      (2)   They shall be automatically adjustable to variations in water level
over a range of at least three inches.
      (3)   An easily removable and cleanable basket or screen through which
all overflow water must pass shall be provided to trap large solids.
      (4)   The skimmer shall be provided with a device to prevent air-lock in
the suction line. If an equalizer pipe is used, it shall provide an adequate
amount of makeup water for pump suction should the water of the pool drop below
the weir level. This pipe shall be at least two inches in diameter and shall be
located at least one foot below the lowest overflow level of the skimmer.
      (5)   An equalizer line shall be provided with a valve that will remain
tightly closed under normal operating conditions, but will automatically open
at a differential of not more than four inches between the pool level and the
level of the overflow tank.
      (6)   The overflow weir shall be of sufficient length to maintain a rate
of flow of at least 20 gallons per minute per lineal foot of weir lip.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-9)
§ 159.010 WATER SUPPLY AND CONDITIONING.
   (A)   No source of water other than that secured from the village water
distribution system shall be used in private residential swimming pools.
   (B)   Equipment shall be provided for the disinfection of all pool water.
Any disinfection method using material other than chlorine compounds shall be
subject to the approval of the Village Board. Disinfection equipment installed
for the use of chlorine compounds shall have sufficient capacity to maintain a
minimum free chlorine residual of 0.5 parts per million. The disinfectant shall
be introduced into the recirculation system ahead of the filters.
   (C)   Gaseous chlorination systems shall not be made use of as a
disinfection method for pool water.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-10)
§ 159.011 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All electrical installations provided for, installed and used in
conjunction with private residential swimming pools shall be in conformity with
the village ordinances.
   (B)   No current-carrying electrical conductors shall cross private
residential swimming pools, either overhead or underground or within 15 feet of
such pools.
   (C)   All metal fences, enclosures or railings near or adjacent to private
residential swimming pools, which might become electrically alive as a result
of contact with broken overhead conductors, or from any other cause, shall be
effectively grounded.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-11)
§ 159.012 STEPS OR LADDERS.
   Two or more means of egress in the form of steps or ladders shall be
provided for all private residential swimming pools. At least one such means of
egress shall be located on a side of the pool at both the deep end and shallow
end. Treads of steps and ladders shall be constructed of non-slip material and
at least three inches wide for their full length. Steps and ladders shall have
a handrail on both sides.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-12)
§ 159.013 DIVING BOARDS.
   No diving board or platform more than three feet above water level shall be
installed for use in connection with any private residential swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-13)
§ 159.014 WALKS.
   (A)   Unobstructed walk areas not less than 36 inches wide shall be provided
to extend entirely around the pool.
   (B)   The walk area shall be constructed of impervious material and the
surfaces shall be of such as to be smooth and easily cleaned and of non-slip
construction.
   (C)   The slope of the walks shall have a pitch of at least one-fourth inch
to the foot, designed so as to prevent back drainage from entering the pool.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-14)
§ 159.015 FENCES.
   (A)   (1)   All private residential swimming pools shall be completely
enclosed by a fence erected along the periphery of the pool walks.
      (2)   All fence openings or points of entry into pool area enclosures
shall be equipped with gates. All gates shall be equipped with self-closing and
self-latching devices placed at the top of the gate and made inaccessible to
small children.
   (B)   The fence and gates shall be six feet in height above the walk grade
level and shall be constructed of a minimum number 9 gauge woven wire mesh
corrosion-resistant material, or material approved by the Village Board. All
fence posts shall be decay or corrosion-resistant and shall be set in concrete
bases.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-15)
§ 159.016 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   No private residential swimming pool shall be made use of between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (B)   A suitable substantial protective cover shall be provided and
installed over all private residential swimming pool surfaces during the non-
swimming season.
   (C)   A skilled swimmer shall be present at all times that private
residential swimming pools are in use.
   (D)   Every private residential swimming pool shall be equipped with one or
more throwing ring buoys not more than 15 inches in diameter and having 60 feet
of three-sixteenths inch Manila line attached, and one or more light, but
strong poles with blunted ends and not less than 12 feet in length for making
reach assists or rescues. Such poles shall have a cylinder rod with a hook
thereon at least one-half inch in diameter and shall be at least 18 inches in
overall diameter.
   (E)   All private residential swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition and all equipment shall be maintained in satisfactory
operating condition during periods the pool is in use.
   (F)   No private residential swimming pool shall be used, kept, maintained
or operated in the village if such use, keeping, maintaining or operating shall
be the occasion of any nuisance or shall be dangerous to life or detrimental to
health.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-16) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 159.017 INSPECTIONS.
   The Village Board shall order a periodic inspection to be made of all
private residential swimming pools to determine whether or not the provisions
of this subchapter regarding health, sanitation and safety applicable thereto
are being complied with.
(Prior Code, § 8-11A-17)
TEMPORARY PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS
§ 159.030 DEFINITION.
   A TEMPORARY SWIMMING POOL shall mean any artificial pool or receptacle for
water designed or used for wading, swimming or bathing, installed, constructed
or maintained above the surface of the ground having a diameter of eight or
more feet and a depth of 18 inches at any point, and whose structural parts or
linings are designed to be wholly or in part removed and reassembled each year.
Aboveground pools consisting of plastic, metal or wood construction or any
combination thereof are considered TEMPORARY SWIMMING POOLS for purposes of
this subchapter, and which are used or intended to be used for swimming or
bathing in connection with a single-family residence or dwelling, and available
only to the family living on the premises and its or their private guests.
(Prior Code, § 8-11B-1)
§ 159.031 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful to proceed with the
installation, construction or maintenance of a temporary swimming pool within
the village unless permits therefor have been secured from the Building
Commissioner.
   (B)   Permit fee. The permit fee shall be $10.
(Prior Code, § 8-11B-2) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 159.032 DRAWINGS AND PLANS.
   All drawings and plans for the installation, construction and maintenance of
a temporary swimming pool shall first be presented to the Building Commissioner
for examination and approval as to proper location and use and shall show the
following:
   (A)   Plot plan locating all building, structures, driveways, property lines
and other descriptive data on the property;
   (B)   Proposed location of pool and pool dimensions including depth; and
   (C)   Location of recirculation system with size and type of filter shown.
(Prior Code, § 8-11B-3)
§ 159.033 LOCATION OF POOL AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No part of a temporary swimming pool shall be located at a distance
which is equal to at least 10% of the width of the lot, but in no event less
than five feet from the side or rear property line.
   (B)   Pools and appurtenant equipment shall not be permitted in the side
yard between dwellings or in the front yard.
(Prior Code, § 8-11B-4) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 159.034 RECIRCULATION AND FILTERING.
   (A)   All temporary private swimming pools shall be of the recirculation
type in which circulation of the water is maintained through the pool by pumps;
the water drawn from the pool being clarified and disinfected before being
returned to the pool.
   (B)   The filter system shall have a sufficient capacity to provide a
complete turnover of the pool water in 18 hours or less.
   (C)   A hair and lint catcher or strainer shall be installed on the suction
side of the circulation pump.
(Prior Code, § 8-11B-5)
§ 159.035 WATER SUPPLY AND CONDITIONING.
   (A)   The water supply must be obtained from the village water system.
Garden hose or other temporary plumbing devices may be used.
   (B)   Any means of germicidal or bacterial control may be used in the
temporary private swimming pool that has been approved by the state’s Public
Health Department which would provide equal or better germicidal or bacterial
protection within the pool, equal to a standard of 0.5 parts per million
chlorine residual.
(Prior Code, § 8-11B-6)
§ 159.036 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
   All electric wiring and equipment used in conjunction with temporary
swimming pools shall conform to the electrical regulations of the village and
the following provisions.
   (A)   No electric wires or conductors shall cross any part of a swimming
pool either overhead or underground.
   (B)   All wiring shall be enclosed in rigid conduit and shall be water-
tight.
(Prior Code, § 8-11B-7)
§ 159.037 SAFETY PRECAUTION; FENCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain a temporary swimming pool,
except in compliance with the following.
   (A)   All swimming pools shall be enclosed with an effective barrier or
fence so as to be inaccessible to small children.
   (B)   All private residential swimming pools shall be completely enclosed by
a fence erected along the periphery of the pool walks. All fence openings or
points of entry into pool area enclosures shall be equipped with gates. All
gates shall be equipped with self-closing and self latching devices placed at
the top of the gate and made inaccessible to small children.
   (C)   The fence and gates shall be six feet in height above the walk grade
level and shall be constructed of a minimum number 9 gauge woven wire mesh
corrosion-resistant material, or material approved by the Village Board. All
fence posts shall be decay or corrosion-resistant and shall be set in concrete
bases.
(Prior Code, § 8-11B-8) (Ord. 92-174, passed 3-31-1982) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 159.038 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The Building Commissioner shall cause to be made
inspections of all swimming pools and equipment. He or she shall have the
authority to prohibit the use of any pool where necessary to protect the safety
of life, limb or property and is authorized to disconnect or authorize
discontinuance of any temporary private swimming pool installation or equipment
found to be dangerous to life, limb or property because the same are defective.
   (B)   Annual inspection. Each temporary private swimming pool shall be
subject to an annual inspection by the Building Commissioner prior to its use
during any calendar year. If the temporary pool is found to conform to the
provisions of this subchapter, the Building Commissioner shall issue the annual
certificate of use permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-11B-9)
§ 159.039 CONDUCT AROUND SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be
made or continued at any swimming pool any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise
or any noise which annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of others.
   (B)   In the operation of a swimming pool, the use or permitting the use or
operation of any radio, receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as
to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at
any time with louder volume than is necessary for the convenient hearing of the
person or persons who are in the swimming pool premises, shall be unlawful.
   (C)   All private temporary pools shall be closed with lights off by 11:00
p.m. each night, unless express permission for later hours is granted by the
Village President and Board of Trustees. No temporary swimming pool shall be
made use of between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 8-11B-10) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 160: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
160.001   Purpose and scope
   
160.002   Definitions
   
160.003   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
160.004   Permit required; applications and fees
   
160.005   Completeness of application; tolling of time
   
160.006   Action on permit applications
   
160.007   Effect of permit
   
160.008   Permit suspension and revocation
   
160.009   Pole application agreement
   
160.010   Co-location requirements and conditions
   
160.011   Co-location completion deadline
   
160.012   Aerial facilities
   
160.013   Annual recurring rate/rental fee
   
160.014   Construction; maintenance; safety; inspection and restoration
   
160.015   Insurance
   
160.016   Indemnification
   
160.017   Security
   
160.018   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
160.019   Removal, relocation or abandonment
   
160.020   Exceptions to applicability
   
160.021   Violations
   
160.022   Enforcement
   
160.023   Dispute resolution
§ 160.001 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village as commercial or industrial
zoning districts, in a manner not inconsistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (Pub. Act No. 100-0585), being 50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.
as now or hereafter amended.
   (B)   Intent.
      (1)   Except as specifically provided in this chapter, this chapter does
not limit the applicability of the provisions of §§
153.060 through
153.081 of this code of ordinances to the location and installation of small
wireless facilities within the village. If the provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of §§
153.060 through
153.081 of this code of ordinances are in conflict, this chapter applies and
controls.
      (2)   In the event that applicable federal or state laws or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the wireless provider shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible
without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. Any term not defined
in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (Pub. Act No. 100-0585), unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   ANTENNA. Communications, equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless
services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing or Mechanical
Codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or village amendments
to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6),
as amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(43), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with §§ VI.D.1.a.i through VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic
Agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, appendix C; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally land-marked building, property, site or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the Village Council pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the state’s Historic Preservation Office or where such
certification of the preservation program by the state’s Historic Preservation
Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal of state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order
or village ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in a
public right-of- way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within the state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical or other emergency services to respond
to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley or utility easement dedicated for compatible use. RIGHT-
OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume.
      (2)   The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not
included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment
elements, telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures,
grounding, equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch and vertical cable
runs for the connection of power and other services.
   STEALTH DESIGN. A method of camouflaging any tower, antenna, wireless
facilities or other ancillary supporting communications facility, including,
but not limited to, supporting electrical, optical or mechanical or other
equipment, which enhances compatibility with adjacent land uses and which is
visually and aurally unobtrusive. STEALTH DESIGN may include a repurposed
structure.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in paid
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS
FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person, authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider, but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the-general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a non-discriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.003 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and
shall not be subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated in
rights-of-way in any zoning district and outside of rights-of-way in commercial
and industrial zoning districts.
   (B)   Applications for permits to collocate small wireless facilities on
said property shall be subject to administrative review as set forth in this
chapter and, if applicable, approval of any request for height exceptions or
other variances.
   (C)   Requests for approval of small wireless facilities to be located in
all other zoning districts and not in rights-of-way shall be subject to zoning
review and approval as set forth in
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.004 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No small wifeless facility shall collocate on a
utility pole or similar structure or other wireless support structure without
first filing an application with the Superintendent of Public Works and
obtaining one or more permits from the village therefor, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed
with the Superintendent of Public Works in such number of duplicate copies as
the village may designate. Duplicate copies shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer. Applicants shall submit applications, the supporting information and
notices to the village to the Superintendent of Public Works by personal
delivery, by regular mail postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly
used means (i.e., overnight mail or by e-mail).
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. A wireless provider shall
provide the following information to the village, together with the village’s
permit application, as a condition of any permit application to collocate small
wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support structure:
      (1)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989, being 225
ILCS 340/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended;
      (2)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed and a depiction of tire completed facility;
      (3)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice of 1989, for
each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as it is
proposed to be installed;
      (4)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      (5)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
      (6)   Certification that the collocation complies with all of the
collocation requirements and conditions set forth in §
160.010 of this chapter, to the best of the applicant’s knowledge;
      (7)   In the event the proposed small wireless facility is to be attached
to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the wireless
provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of the owner
of such pole to the proposed collocation; and
      (8)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village, but in no event shall the applicant be required to provide more
information to obtain a permit than the village requires a communications
service provider that is not a wireless provider that requests to attach
facilities to a structure.
   (D)   Consolidated applications. An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at
the applicant’s discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the
collocations each involve substantially the same type of small wireless
facility and substantially the same type of structure. If the consolidated
application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the village has the
right to remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and
treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments and/or revisions to information contained in the permit
application shall be submitted by the applicant in writing to the
Superintendent of Public Works within 30 days after the change necessitating
the amendment and/or revision.
   (F)   Application fees. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be accompanied by the following non-refundable applicable fees:
      (1)   Six hundred fifty dollars for an application to collocate a single
small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support
structure;
      (2)   Three hundred fifty dollars for each small wireless facility
addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small
wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support facilities, as
provided in division (D) above; or
      (3)   One thousand dollars for each small wireless facility addressed in
an application that includes the installation of a new utility pole or wireless
support structure for such collocation.
   (G)   Exceptions to application; approval of permit. The village shall not
require an application, approval or permit or any fees or other charges from a
communications service provider authorized to occupy the rights-of-way for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with the requirements of division (C) above; or
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (4)   Notwithstanding divisions (G)(1), (G)(2) and (G)(3) above, wireless
providers shall secure a permit to work within rights-of-way for activities
that affect traffic patterns or require lane closures as provided in §§
153.060 through
153.081 of this code of ordinances.
   (H)   Duration of permit. The duration of a permit shall be for a period of
not less than five years. The permit shall be renewed for a period of
equivalent durations unless the village makes a finding that the small wireless
facilities or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the
applicable village codes or any provision, condition or requirement contained
in this chapter. If the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, being 50 ILCS
840/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, is repealed as provided in the Act,
renewal of permits shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions
or regulations in effect at the time of renewal of the permit.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.005 COMPLETENESS OF APPLICATION; TOLLING OF TIME.
   (A)   Completeness of application. Within 30 days of receiving an
application, the village shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant of the status of the application. If the application
is incomplete, the village shall specifically identify the missing information.
An application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to notify the
applicant within 30 days after all documents, information and the applicable
fees specifically enumerated in the permit application form are submitted to
the Superintendent of Public Works by the applicant.
   (B)   Tolling of time. The processing deadlines set forth in §
160.006(B) of this chapter shall be tolled for the following reasons:
      (1)   The application is incomplete and the village sends notice of such
incompleteness to the application within 30 days after the receipt of the
application. The time for processing the application is tolled until the
applicant provides the missing information;
      (2)   An express agreement in writing by both the. applicant and the
village to toll the time period for the application; and/or
      (3)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that cause the delay.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.006 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Village review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all of the required documentation, shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and the Superintendent of Public Works.
   (B)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows.
      (1)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
      (2)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless facility shall be processed within 90 days
after the submission of a completed application. If the village does not
approve or deny the completed application within said 90 days, the application
shall be deemed approved.
         (a)   If the applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity
on a deemed approved basis, the applicant must notify the village in writing,
its intention to invoke, the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75 days
after the submission of a completed application.
         (b)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt by the village of the deemed approved notice by the village.
         (c)   The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
village’s denial of the permit request within the time limits as provided under
this chapter.
      (3)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that includes
the installation of a new utility pole or wireless support structure or a
replacement of a utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed
within 120 days after the submission of a completed application. If the village
does not approve or deny the competed application within said 120 days, the
application shall be deemed approved.
         (a)   If the applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity
on a deemed approved basis, the applicant must notify the village, in writing,
its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 105 days
after the submission of a completed application.
         (b)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one
hundred twentieth day after submission of the completed application or the
tenth day after the receipt by the village of the deemed approved notice by the
village.
         (c)   The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
village’s denial of the permit request within the time limits as provided under
this chapter.
   (C)   Approval/denial of permit. The village shall deny any permit
application which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   If the village makes the determination that applicable codes,
ordinances or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation
requirements and conditions set forth in §
160.010 of this chapter, require that the existing utility pole or wireless
support structure must be replaced before the requested collocation is
permitted, the approval shall be conditioned on the replacement of the utility
pole or wireless support structure at the applicant’s expense. The replacement
of the utility pole or wireless support structure shall be subject to the
provisions set forth in §§
153.060 through
153.081 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   The village shall document the basis for denial of the permit,
including the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the
denial is based. The documentation shall be sent to the applicant on or before
the day the village denies the permit application.
      (3)   The applicant may submit a revised application once within 30 days
after notice of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional
application fee. The revised application shall cure the deficiencies identified
by the village in its written denial of the original application. The village
shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days of receipt of the
applicant’s revised application or it is deemed approved. Failure to resubmit
the revised application within 30 days of denial of the application shall
trigger the requirement that the applicant submit a new application with the
applicable fees and the recommencement of the village’s applicable review
period.
         (a)   If the applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity
on a deemed approved basis, the applicant must notify the village, in writing,
its intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved
basis. This notice may be submitted with the revised application.
         (b)   Any review of the revised application by the village shall be
limited to the deficiencies cited by the village in its denial of the original
application.
         (c)   The revised application procedure shall not apply if the cure
for the deficiencies set forth in the denial requires the review of a new
location, new or different structure to be collocated upon, new antennas or
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.007 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter and does not create a property right
or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the rights of others who
may have an interest in the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
   (C)   Approval. The approval of the installation, placement, maintenance or
operation of a small wireless facility pursuant to this chapter does not
authorize the installation, placement, maintenance or operation of any
communications facilities other than small wireless facilities in the right-of-
way.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.008 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke of suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   The wireless provider’s placement or maintenance of a small
wireless facility in the public rights-of-way presents a direct or imminent
threat to the general public or other users of the public rights-of-way and the
wireless provider fails to remedy the danger promptly after receipt of written
notice from the village;
      (4)   The wireless provider’s failure to construct the facilities
substantially in accordance with the permit and approved plans;
      (5)   A federal or state authority suspends, denies or revokes a wireless
provider’s certification or license to provide communication services; or
      (6)   The wireless provider ceases to use its small wireless facilities
in public fights-of-way and has not complied with §
160.019 of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      (1)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      (2)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five working, days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      (3)   Immediately remove the small wireless facilities located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across or within the public rights-of-way and
restore the rights-of-way to the satisfaction of the village providing written
proof of such removal to the village within ten days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation. The Village may, in its discretion, for good
cause shown, extend the time periods provided in this division (C).
   (D)   Village correction and notice. If the deficiency creates an imminent
threat to life, health or safety, the village may correct the deficiency
immediately upon verbal notice by the village to permittee.
   (E)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A)
above.
   (F)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply.
      (1)   If the permittee fails to comply with the provision of division (C)
above, the village or its designee may, at the option of the village:
         (a)   Correct the deficiencies;
         (b)   Upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   After not less than 30 days’ notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned arid property of the village.
      (2)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the village for all
costs of removal.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.009 POLE ATTACHMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the permit application is approved to collocate,
a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and
applicant shall enter into a master pole attachment agreement for the initial
collocation on the municipal pole. The village shall be responsible for
providing said agreement. The village and the applicant shall enter into
supplements to the master pole attachment agreement for subsequent approved
permits to collocate additional small wireless facilities on the municipal
utility poles not included in the master pole attachment agreement.
   (B)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in a right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are effect on 6-1-2018, shall remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before 6-1-2018, subject to applicable
termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into on or after
6-1-2018 shall comply with this chapter.
   (C)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village on
6-1-2018 may accept the rates, fees and terms set forth in this chapter for the
collocation of small wireless facilities, or the installation of new utility
poles for the collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of
an application submitted two or more years after 6-1-2018 by notifying the
village that it opts to accept such fates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement shall remain in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions,
for the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
village’s utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the village
before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option
under this division (C).
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.010 COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Public safety conditions.
      (1)   Reservation of space. The village has the right to reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village’s
electric utility uses, or both. The reservation of such space shall not
preclude the collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village
reasonably determines that the village utility pole cannot accommodate both
uses.
      (2)   Interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         (a)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   The wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes interference as set forth in
division (A)(2)(c) above, and the wireless provider has been given written
notice of the interference by the public safety agency the wireless provider,
at its own expense, shall take all reasonable steps necessary to correct and
eliminate the interference, including, but not limited to, powering down the
small wireless facility and later powering up the small wireless facility for
intermittent testing, if necessary. The wireless provider shall remedy the
problem in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution procedures for
interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC, including 47
C.F.R. § 22.970 through 47 C.F.R. § 22.973, and 47 C.F.R. § 90.672 through 47
C.F.R. § 90.675.
         (e)   The village has the light to terminate the permit for a small
wireless facility based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in
compliance with the sections of the Code of Federal Regulations set forth in
division (A)(2)(d) above. Failure to remedy the interference as required in
herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Public safety concerns.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable federal,
state and local codes, code provisions and regulations concerning public
safety. The proposed collocation cannot materially interfere with the
following:
         (a)   The safe operation of traffic control equipment;
         (b)   Sight lines or clear zones for transportation, pedestrians or
public safety purposes; and
         (c)   Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, or similar federal or
state standards and regulations regarding pedestrian access or movement.
      (2)   Additionally, for the safety of electrical utility workers and
members of the public, the small wireless facility shall comply with the
following:
         (a)   Small wireless facilities collocated on the same village pole as
a street light shall be on the same disconnect as the street light;
         (b)   Small wireless facilities shall be grounded and otherwise fully
comply with all applicable electrical codes;
         (c)   Whenever conduit of small wireless facilities crosses telephone
or electric power wires, wires shall be crossed and be maintained in accordance
with the National Electric Code, the National Electric Safety Code and the
“Safety Rules for the Installation and Maintenance of Electrical Supply arid
Communication Lines”, established by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of
Standards of the United States in force at the time of the effective date of
this chapter, and as amended from time to time.
   (C)   Third-party contracts. The wireless provider shall comply with
requirements that are imposed in a contract between the village and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   (D)   Non-interference with electric distribution/transmission system.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities
on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, the antenna and support equipment of
the. small wireless facility may be located in the communications space on the
village utility pole and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable,
if the wireless provider complies with applicable codes for work involving top
of the pole.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (D), the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in. the National Electric Safety Code, published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (E)   Compliance with applicable codes and regulations.
      (1)   Design standards. The wireless provider shall comply with the
village’s written design standards applicable for decorative utility poles,
stealth structures, concealment and aesthetic requirements set forth in a
village ordinance, written policy, comprehensive plan or other written design
that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic
landmark or in a historic district.
      (2)   Signage. The wireless provider shall comply with any applicable
sign regulations of the village.
      (3)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements set forth in §§
153.060 through
153.081 of this code of ordinances. Any request by the wifeless provider for a
variance from the applicable spacing requirements shall be subject to the
procedures set forth in §
153.080 of this code of ordinances.
      (4)   Underground regulations. The wireless provider shall comply with
the provisions set forth in §§
151.100 and
151.101 of this code of ordinances, regulating undergrounding requirements that
prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles
in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
variance. Any request by a wireless provider for a variance to install such new
utility poles or modify existing utility poles shall be subject to the
procedures set forth in §
153.080 of this chapter.
      (5)   Compliance with sign regulations. The wireless provider shall
comply with sign regulations applicable to public rights-of-way.
   (F)   Alternate placements.
      (1)   Existing utility poles. Except as provided in this chapter, a
wireless provider shall not be required to collocate small wireless facilities
on an existing specific utility pole or category of existing utility poles or
be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single existing pole.
      (2)   New utility poles. For an application for the collocation of a
small wireless facility on a new utility pole, the village may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on ail existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed collocation. The
applicant shall be required to accept the village’s proposal if the applicant
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms arid
conditions and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant. If the
applicant refuses a collocation as proposed by the village, the applicant shall
be required to provide a written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria set forth in this division (F).
   (G)   Height limitations. The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be ho more than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
      (1)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures.
The height for new or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed tire higher
of:
         (a)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole that only supports wireless facilities that exists
within the right-of-way on the date the applicant is submitted to the village,
and is located within 300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or
wireless support structure and is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the village; provided, however, the village may
designate which intersecting right-of-way within the 300 feet of the proposed
utility to safeguard work site areas. The persons constructing, installing and
maintaining small wire; or
         (b)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (2)   Height exceptions/variances. If an applicant proposes a height for
a new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure in excess of
the height limitations set forth above, the applicant may request a variance
for the height limitation pursuant to the procedures, terms and conditions set
forth in §
153.081 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.011 COLLOCATION COMPLETION DEADLINE.
   Collocation for which a permit is granted shall be completed within 180 days
after the issuance of the permit by the village unless the village and the
wireless provider agree to extend this time period, there is a delay caused by
make-ready work for a village utility pole, or there is a lack of commercial
power or backhaul availability at the site; provided, the wireless provider has
made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the permit for
commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to complete the
installation does not exceed 360 days after the issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be declared void unless the village grants an
extension writing to the wireless provider.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.012 AERIAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall comply with the process for make-ready work
under 47 U.S.C. § 224, and its implementing regulations for collocation on
village utility poles that support aerial facilities used to provide
communications services or electric services.
      (1)   The village shall follow a substantially similar process for make-
ready work, except to the extent that the timing requirements are otherwise set
forth in this chapter.
      (2)   The good-faith estimate of the person owning or controlling the
village, utility pole for any make-ready work necessary to enable the pole to
support the requested collocation shall include village utility pole
replacement, if necessary.
   (B)   If a utility pole does not support aerial facilities used to provide
communication services or electric service, the village shall provide a good-
faith estimate for any make-ready work necessary to enable the village utility
pole to support the requested collocation, including pole replacement, if
necessary, within 90 days after the receipt of a complete application.
      (1)   Make-ready work, including any village utility pole replacement,
shall be completed within 60 days of written acceptance of the good-faith
estimate by the applicant at the wireless provider’s sole cost and expense.
      (2)   If the village determines that applicable codes or public safety
regulations require the village utility pole to be replaced to support the
requested collocation, the village shall require the wireless provider to
replace the village utility pole at the wireless provider’s sole cost and
expense.
   (C)   The make-ready work shall meet all of the applicable codes and/or
industry standards. MAKE- READY WORK shall include all work needed to
accommodate additional public safety communications needs that are identified
in §
160.010(A) of this chapter and included in an existing or preliminary village
or public service agency budget for attachment within one year of the submitted
application.
      (1)   Fees for make-ready work, including any village utility pole
replacement, shall not exceed actual costs or the amount charged to
communication service providers for similar work. Said fees shall not include
any consultant’s fees or expenses for the village utility poles, that do not
support aerial facilities used to provide communications services or electric
service.
      (2)   Make-ready work, including any pole replacement, shall be completed
within 60 days of written acceptance of the good-faith estimate by the wireless
provider, at its sole cost and expense.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.013 ANNUAL RECURRING RATE/RENTAL FEE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located
in a right-of-way that equals:
      (1)   Two hundred dollars per year; or
      (2)   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider’s use of space on the village utility pole, if the actual, direct and
reasonable costs are greater than $200.
   (B)   The village shall have the burden of proving the actual, direct and
reasonable costs. If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual
and direct costs, the fee of $200 shall be payable on the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of tire permit or notice of intent to collocate,
and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.014 CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE; SAFETY; INSPECTION AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall install, maintain, repair and modify its
small wireless facilities in safe condition and good repair and in compliance
with the requirements and conditions of this chapter and §§
153.060 through
153.081 of this chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees,
agents and contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless
facilities are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable
industry and governmental standards and regulations.
   (B)   Specifically, the wireless provider shall comply with the following
requirements and conditions.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall maintain its small wireless facilities
in a manner consistent with accepted industry practice and applicable law.
      (2)   All safety practices required by applicable law or accepted
industry practices and standards shall be used during the construction,
installation or maintenance of small wireless facilities.
      (3)   After the completion of any placement or maintenance, of a small
wireless facilities in a public right-of-way, the wireless provider shall, at
its own expense, restore the public right-of-way to its original condition
before such work. If the wireless provider within ten days, or such longer
period of time as may be agreed to between the village and the wireless
provider in writing, following completion of such placement or maintenance, the
village may perform restoration and charge the costs of the restoration against
the wireless provider.
      (4)   The wireless provider shall use and exercise due. caution, care and
skill in performing work in the public right-of-way and shall take all
necessary and reasonable steps to safeguard work site areas. The persons
constructing, installing and maintaining small wireless facilities must be a
licensed electrician, certified to work as a lineworker, or successfully
complete an accredited lineworker apprenticeship program.
      (5)   A wireless provider shall not place or maintain its small wireless
facilities so as to interfere with, displace, damage or destroy any utilities,
including, but not limited to, sewers, gas or watermains, storm drains, pipes,
cables or conduits of the village, or any other person’s facilities lawfully
occupying the village’s public rights-of-way.
      (6)   The village shall have the right to make such inspections of small
wireless facilities placed or maintained in public rights-of-way as it finds
necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.015 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Recovered coverages and limits.
      (1)   Except for a wireless provider with an existing franchise to occupy
and operate the rights- of-way, during the period in which the wireless
provider’s facilities are located within the village’s improvements or rights-
of-way, the wireless provider, at its own cost and expense, shall carry the
following insurance:
         (a)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against
all risks;
         (b)   Worker’s compensation insurance with the statutory limits;
         (c)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village’s improvements or rights-of-way, with limits not less
than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any
one accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
         (d)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident; and
         (e)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the wireless provider is not providing such insurance to protect
the contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors
and subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Copies required. The wireless provider shall include the village as an
additional insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide
certification and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial
general liability policy prior to the collocation of any small wireless
facility.
   (C)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement: “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may
not be canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until ten days after
receipt by the village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the village’s Superintendent of
Public Works of such intent to cancel or not to renew”.
      (2)   Within seven days after receipt by the village of said notice, and
in no event later than three days prior to said cancellation, the wireless
provider shall obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement
insurance policies meeting the requirements of this section.
   (D)   Self-insurance.
      (1)   The wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above.
      (2)   A wireless provider that self-insures is not required, to the
extent of the self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of
additional insureds under this section. A wireless provider that elects to
self-insure shall provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its
financial ability to self-insure, the insurance coverage and limits required by
the village.
   (E)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on wireless provider’s
liability. The legal liability of the wireless provider to the village and any
person for any of the matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or
self-insurance required by this section shall not be limited by such Insurance
policies or self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.016 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnity and hold the village, and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property
damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or
occupancy of the village improvements or rights-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges, granted under this chapter or the
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, being 50 ILCS 840/1 et seq. as now or
hereafter amended. The wireless provider’s indemnity obligations hereunder
shall not apply against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused
by the soles negligence of the village, its employees or agents. The wireless
provider shall further waive any claims that it may have against the village
with respect to consequential, incidental or special damages, however caused,
based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.017 SECURITY.
   The wireless provider shall comply with the security provisions set forth in
§
153.069 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.018 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall notify the village not less than 30 days
prior to the transfer of ownership of any small wireless facility in the right-
of-way or change in identity of the wireless provider.
      (2)   The new owner of the wireless provider or the small wireless
facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former
owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, including this chapter with respect to the work and facilities in
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If tire new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its frame, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of the permit and
any applicable agreement between the village and the prior owner if the new
owner uses the small wireless facility or allows it to remain on the village’s
right-of-way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance, coverage or bonding
must be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.019 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Removal by village.
      (1)   Under this chapter, the village is not required to install or
maintain any specific utility pole or to continue to install or maintain any
specific utility pole in any location if the village determines to eliminate
above-ground utility poles of a particular type generally, such, as electric
utility poles, in all or a significant portion of its geographic jurisdiction.
      (2)   If the village determines to eliminate above-ground village utility
poles of a particular type generally, and collocated small wireless facilities
are in place, the village shall either:
         (a)   Continue to maintain the utility pole or install and maintain a
reasonable alternative utility pole or wireless support structure for the
collocation of the small wifeless facility; or
         (b)   Offer to sell the utility pole to the wireless provider at a
reasonable cost or allow the wireless provider to install its own utility pole
so it can maintain service form that location.
   (B)   Emergency removal or relocation. The village retains the right and
privilege to cut or move any small wireless facilities within the rights-of-way
of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If the
circumstances permit, the village shall attempt to notify the wireless provider
prior to cutting or removing the facility and shall notify the wireless
provider after cutting or removing the facility.
   (C)   Abandonment. A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the
facility must remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after the date
of the written notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment. The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known-address of the
owner. If the small wifeless facility is not removed within 90 days of such
notice, the village has the right to remove or cause the removal of the
facility pursuant to the terms, of its pole attachment agreement for village
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery. The village shall
charge the cost of the removal against the wireless provider or any successor
in interest to the wireless provider.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.020 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small
wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
public rights-of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support
structure without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected, district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   Property owned by a rail -carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq. as now or hereafter
amended, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter rail service, or an
electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220
ILCS 5/1-101 et seq. as now or hereafter amended, without the consent of the
rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or electric utility. The provisions
of this chapter do not apply to an electric or gas, public utility or such
utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and
maintained consistent with the provisions of § 16-108.5(i) of the Public
Utilities Act.
   (B)   For the purposes of this division (B), PUBLIC UTILITY has the meaning
given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to relieve a person from any requirement:
      (1)   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
      (2)   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.021 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of the village code.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.022 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 160.023 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of the county shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve
all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, being
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended. Pending resolution of a
dispute concerning rates for collocation of small wireless facilities on
village utility poles within the right-of-way, the village shall allow the
collocating wireless provider to collocate on its poles at annual rates of no
more than $200 per year per village utility pole, with rates to be determined
upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 18-011, passed 8-6-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS; EMINENT DOMAIN
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES; VARIANCES
      
III.   SUBDIVISION PLANS, PLATS
      
IV.   VACATIONS, EASEMENTS AND THE LIKE
      
V.   IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
      
VI.   REDEVELOPMENT AREAS AND ENTERPRISE ZONES; TAX INCENTIVES
      
VII.   PROPERTY SALES, PURCHASES AND TRANSFERS
      
VIII.   AGREEMENTS, FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
      
IX.   COVID-RELATED FUNDS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS; EMINENT DOMAIN
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
95-289   8-15-1995   Annexing certain territory (100-foot wide right-of-way of
                     the Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railway Company)
00-143   4-17-2000   Authorizing the quick-take of property (14900 Woodlawn)
05-287   5-16-2005   Authorizing the quick-take or exercise of eminent domain
                     powers (14123 Cottage Grove Avenue)
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES; VARIANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
88-108z  3-22-1988   Granting a special zoning use variance to 425 E. 142nd
                     Street
88-128z  6-28-1988   Authorizing the zoning classification change of 146th and
                     Chicago Road from B-2 to R-3
                     Changing the zoning designation of property bounded by
                     Stewart Avenue (148th Street) on the north, the Calumet
89-115z  6-13-1989   Expressway (I-94) on the east, Sibley Boulevard (Rt. 83)
                     on the south and Dorchester Avenue on the west from R-3 to
                     B-3
90-125z  7-10-1990   Changing the zoning designation of several tracts of land
                     from R-4 to M-1
                     Changing the zoning designation of property located
91-144   3-19-1991   generally on Sibley Boulevard between Michigan and Wabash
                     Streets from B-2 to B-3
                     Changing the zoning designation of property located on the
91-157   6-11-1991   west side of Irving Avenue between Margaret Street and
                     Engle Street from B-4 to R-3
                     Granting a zoning variance for the erection of a business
93-226   9-7-1993    sign rising 75 feet from the ground within a business
                     district
                     Changing the zoning designation of property generally
94-238   1-25-1994   located on the northeast corner of Avalon Avenue and 150th
                     Street to M-1
95-275   4-5-1995    Changing the zoning designation of property located at I-
                     94 and Sibley Boulevard from R-3 to B-4; zoning variances
95-286   7-18-1995   Changing the zoning designation of property located at
                     15008 Woodlawn Avenue from B-2 to R-6
95-291   10-3-1995   Changing the zoning designation of property used by Cooper
                     and Sons Roofing from B-3 to B-4
96-296   5-7-1996    Changing the zoning designation of 14806 Chicago Road from
                     B-3 to R-6
96-297   5-7-1996    Changing the zoning designation of 519 E. Sibley Boulevard
                     from B-3 to B-4
96-298   5-7-1996    Granting a zoning variance to 306 E. 144th Street for the
                     installation of fencing, lighting and landscaping
03-236   12-15-2003  Changing the zoning designation of 14828-30 S. Chicago
                     Road from B-3 to B-4
05-327   12-19-2005  Authorizing the zoning classification for a residential
                     storage warehouse in TIF 2 to B-2
                     Changing the zoning designation for certain property on
06-374   9-18-2006   the west side of Greenwood Road beginning at the furthest
                     southern boundary to 600 feet north of the River Oaks
                     Toyota dealership from R-1 to B-2
06-383   12-4-2006   Changing the zoning designation of 314 E. 144th Street and
                     256 E. 144th Street from B-2 to R-3
07-396   4-16-2007   Approving a side yard variance for property located at
                     15540 Sunset Drive
                     Approving a zoning variance for the MB Financial Bank
08-430   2-19-2008   facility located on the southeast corner of Chicago Road
                     and Washington Street
08-437   7-21-2008   Approving a side yard zoning variance for the property
                     located at 1101 E. Sibley Boulevard
08-454   10-30-2008  Changing the zoning designation of 15124 Greenwood from R-
                     1 to R-3
09-489   11-2-2009   Changing the zoning designation for 14105 Lincoln from B-
                     2 to R-1
15-035   9-8-2015    Changing the zoning designation of 14449 Van Buren as a
                     multi-family residential dwelling
18-013   11-5-2018   Correcting the zoning designation of 695 E. 142nd Street
                     as a multi-family residential zone
                    
 
TABLE III: SUBDIVISION PLANS, PLATS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
95-  4-5-   Approving Terra Venture’s Addition to Dolton Subdivision and site plan
274  1995
95-  6-6-   Approving minor changes to the Menard’s site plan
279  1995
01-  1-16-  Approving the plat of subdivision for 14539 to 14545 S. Cottage Grove
164  2001
08-  10-30- Approving the plat of subdivision and side setback variances for 1000 E. Sibley
455  2008   Boulevard
10-  3-15-  Approving the plat of subdivision for property in the 14600 and 14700 blocks of
495  2010   Ingleside
16-  5-2-   Approving a final plat of the resubdivision of Lot 2 in Diekman’s Subdivision
012  2016   (Taco Bell, 1312 Sibley Road)
           
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS, EASEMENTS AND THE LIKE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
88-  6-28-  Vacating a certain public alley in Block 2 in Calumet Park
131  1988
92-  8-18-  Vacating a certain portion of Cottage Grove Avenue
187  1992
93-  9-7-   Vacating a certain portion of Kenwood Avenue from 142nd Street to Main Street
223  1993
93-  11-16- Vacating a certain alley located in 146th Street
230  1993
94-  3-16-  Vacating a certain portion of Ingleside Avenue
243  1994
95-  4-5-   Partially vacating the Calumet Terrace Deluxe Subdivision
272  1995
95-  4-5-   Partially vacating Dante Avenue, Blackstone Avenue, Harper Avenue and Harding
273  1995   Avenue
97-  9-22-  Prohibiting encroachments of the state right-of-way along Sibley Boulevard
343  1997
98-  10-5-  Adding Greenwood Road, between a point on Greenwood Road at the northern
384  1998   municipal limits of Calumet City
00-  7-17-  Vacating a public street for Forest Wood Villas Subdivision
150  2000
01-  11-5-  Renaming 148th Street, from Woodlawn to Blackstone, as Roebuck “POP” Staples
174  2001   Drive
01-  11-5-  Granting an easement to Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
175  2001   Chicago for the Calumet Tunnel System
04-  5-3-   Renewing Ord. 98-384; assumption of maintenance and jurisdiction of Greenwood
251  2004   Road
04-  10-4-  Vacating a portion of the public alley located in the rear of Lots 16 through 24
271  2004   of Section 11, Township 36 North
04-  11-1-  Vacating a portion of the public street on 138th Street, from Cottage Grove to
274  2004   the Little Calumet River
05-  6-6-   Approving a permanent easement conveyance on Cottage Grove Avenue, from Lincoln
292  2005   Avenue to 138th Street
05-  6-6-   Approving a fee simple acquisition for real estate and a temporary construction
293  2005   easement on Cottage Grove Avenue, from Lincoln Avenue to 138th Street
05-  6-6-   Approving a permanent easement and a temporary construction easement on Cottage
294  2005   Grove Avenue, from Lincoln Avenue to 138th Street
05-  8-15-  Amending and ratifying Ord. 04-279; vacating a portion of the public street on
299  2005   138th Street, from Cottage Grove to the Little Calumet River
05-  9-19-  Approving a perpetual easement and right-of-way for conveyance or real estate to
303  2005   Nicor Gas Company
05-  11-7-  Amending Ord. 05-303; approving a perpetual easement and right-of-way for
312  2005   conveyance or real estate to Nicor Gas Company
07-  4-2-   Assuming maintenance and jurisdiction of Cottage Grove Avenue, from Lincoln
390  2007   Avenue to 138th Street
07-  7-2-   Vacating a certain portion of the east/west public alley in an area bounded by
404  2007   Sibley Boulevard, Chicago Road and Grant Street in the northeast quarter of
            Section 10, Township 36 North, Range 14 East
10-  10-4-  Granting a utility easement over property at approximately 140th and Cottage
509  2010   Grove Streets
12-  7-16-  Granting a non-exclusive easement for property commonly known as Dolton Park and
562  2012   located at 14440 Greenwood Road
25-  7-1-   Approving the purchase of easement rights, leases and future rents with Tower
003  2025   Point for a cell tower located at 401 E. 144th Street
25-  7-1-   Approving the purchase of easement rights, leases and future rents with Tower
004  2025   Point for a cell tower located at 14440 S. Greenwood Road
           
 
TABLE V: IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
97-342   9-22-1997   Sibley Boulevard improvement project; prohibiting any
                     discharge of sanitary or industrial waste
                    
 
TABLE VI: REDEVELOPMENT AREAS AND ENTERPRISE ZONES; TAX INCENTIVES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishment of enterprise zone; boundaries;
-        - -         Administrator; programs; approval of designated areas
                     (1988 Code, §§ 1-21-1—1-21-8)
89-108   5-2-1989    Approving a tax increment redevelopment plan and
                     redevelopment project
89-109   5-2-1989    Designating the Sibley Boulevard tax increment
                     redevelopment project area
                     Approving a tax increment redevelopment plan and
92-200   12-22-1992  redevelopment project for the Interstate 94/Sibley
                     Boulevard redevelopment project area
92-201   12-22-1992  Designating the Interstate 94/Sibley Boulevard
                     redevelopment project area
92-202   12-22-1992  Adopting tax increment allocation financing for the
                     Interstate 94/Sibley Boulevard redevelopment project area
99-119   - -1999     Authorizing a tax increment financing redevelopment
                     agreement with Rene Garza of Security Concept
                     Designating the Interstate 94/Sibley Boulevard Tax
99-131   11-1-1999   Increment Financing District for 120 E. Sibley Boulevard
                     project
00-158   - -2000     Approving a tax increment redevelopment project area
                     redevelopment plan and Project No. 2
00-160   7-16-2001   Confirming the Sibley Boulevard/Woodlaw n Avenue tax
                     increment financing and redevelopment Project No. 2
06-363   7-17-2006   Correcting errors in Ords. 05-286, 05-287 and 05-288
07-412   9-4-2007    Amending Ord. 86-143; establishing the enterprise zone
                     benefits and boundaries thereof
12-558   6-18-2012   Approving economic incentives for Verallia a/k/a Saint-
                     Gobain at a site on Cottage Grove Avenue
14-031   12-1-2014   Establishing an enterprise zone
                     Amending the current existing enterprise zone by altering
15-050   11-16-2015  its boundaries and establishing a new successor enterprise
                     zone
                     Repealing Ord. 12-558; approving economic incentives for
16-002   2-1-2016    Verallia a/k/a Saint-Gobain at a site on Cottage Grove
                     Avenue
16-017   8-1-2016    Terminating the I-94/Sibley Boulevard redevelopment
                     project area
21-010   8-23-2021   Approving the redevelopment plan and project for the West
                     Sibley tax increment financing redevelopment project area
                    
 
TABLE VII: PROPERTY SALES, PURCHASES AND TRANSFERS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
90-  5-8-   Disposal by public auction on personal property (vehicles, patcher and office
117  1990   equipment)
91-  4-30-  Disposal by public auction of personal property (mowers and plow)
148  1991
92-  1-7-   Sale of certain personal property (833 E. 158th Street)
171  1992
92-  2-4-   Sale of certain property (several parcels of land)
173  1992
92-  4-28-  Purchase of the right, title and interest in and to a railroad right-of-way
178  1992
93-  4-13-  Sale of certain real and personal property (833 E. 158th Street)
207  1993
93-  11-16- Disposal of personal property (garbage and dump trucks, six- wheelers with
233  1993   plows and salt boxes and a school bus)
94-  4-19-  Disposal of personal property (several vehicles and vehicle parts)
247  1994
94-  4-19-  Transfer of certain real property (parcels of land owned by School District
249  1994   149)
94-  5-3-   Transfer of certain property (parcel of land owned by School District 149)
252  1994
94-  5-3-   Sale of land (14062 Lincoln Avenue)
253  1994
94-  6-7-   Disposal of personal property (automobile)
256  1994
94-  8-2-   Disposal of personal property (pool filter)
260  1994
94-  9-6-   Disposal of personal property (two trucks)
261  1994
94-  10-4-  Purchase of property (located in the tax increment financing district (TIF))
264  1994
95-  6-6-   Transfer of property to the Dolton Development Company (Lot 5 in Block 2 in
281  1995   Calumet Terrace DeLuxe)
95-  6-20-  Transfer of surplus property to the Dolton Volunteer Fire Department (vehicle)
282  1995
95-  9-5-   Transfer of surplus property (vehicle)
290  1995
97-  7-17-  Purchase of real property (1321 E. Sibley)
335  1997
98-  5-4-   Purchase and sale of real property (15033 University)
370  1998
98-  11-16- Transfer of land (two parcels of Village of Dolton/South Holland land)
388  1998
98-  12-21- Transfer of and annexation of land (one parcel of Village of Dolton/South
392  1998   Holland land)
98-  12-21- Transfer of and exclusion of land (one parcel of Village of Dolton/South
393  1998   Holland land)
99-  8-2-   Sale of property (east of 1250 E. Sibley Boulevard)
118  1999
00-  8-7-   Sale of certain property (1254 E. Sibley Boulevard)
151  2000
01-  5-21-  Sale of certain property (14910 Woodlawn Avenue)
167  2001
01-  9-4-   Sale of Department of Public Works’ personal property (trucks and other
169  2001   vehicles)
01-  9-4-   Purchase of certain real estate property (14900 S. Woodlawn)
170  2001
02-  3-4-   Sale of certain property (1009 Sibley)
179  2002
02-  9-16-  Sale of certain property (650 E. 144th Street)
192  2002
02-  9-16-  Sale of certain property (14827 S. Ellis)
193  2002
02-  10-7-  Transfer of title of certain property (Greenwood Avenue, between Chicago Road
194  2002   and Rt. 6)
03-  6-2-   Sale of certain property (14741 Dobson)
322  2003
03-  8-7-   Sale of certain property (600 E. Sibley Boulevard)
226  2003
03-  9-2-   Sale of Department of Public Works’ personal property (vehicles)
228  2003
03-  9-2-   Sale of certain property (300 West Sibley Boulevard)
229  2003
03-  11-17- Sale of Department of Public Works’ personal property (camper)
234  2003
04-  4-5-   Declaring surplus property be quitclaimed to the village’s Housing Authority
246  2004   (721 E. 144th Street)
04-  4-19-  Amending Ord. 04-246; declaring surplus property be quitclaimed to the
249  2004   village’s Housing Authority (721 E. 144th Street)
04-  5-3-   Declaring surplus property to be advertised for sale (14500 Park Avenue)
253  2004
04-  7-6-   Declaring surplus property to be advertised for sale (alley to the north and
261  2004   east of 844 E. Sibley Boulevard)
04-  9-20-  Sale of Fire Department personal property (fire apparatuses)
269  2004
05-  2-7-   Purchase of property (police cars)
281  2005
05-  3-7-   Transfer of title of certain property to the Economic Development Authority
284  2005   (14200 Cottage Grove)
05-  3-22-  Transfer of certain property to the Economic Development Authority (running
285  2005   along the south side of Greenwood Road from 154th Street on the north to 740.91
            inches northwest of 159th Street on the south)
05-  10-3-  Authorizing the sale of Department of Public Works’ personal property
306  2005   (vehicles)
05-  11-21- Transfer of title of certain property (132 E. Sibley Boulevard)
321  2005
05-  11-21- Transfer of title of certain property (14320 Blackstone Avenue)
322  2005
05-  11-21- Transfer of title of certain property (14141 Chicago Road)
323  2005
05-  12-5-  Sale of personal property (mobile/cellular telephones)
324  2005
06-  1-31-  Transfer of title of certain property to the Economic Development Authority
331  2006   (13856 Lincoln)
06-  1-31-  Transfer of title of certain property to the Economic Development Authority
332  2006   (320 E. 142nd Street)
06-  2-6-   Transfer of title of certain property to the Economic Development Authority (E.
333  2006   142nd Street, commonly known as address numbers 394, 396 and 400 E. 142nd
            Street)
06-  6-19-  Transfer of title of certain property to the Economic Development Authority
347  2006   (vacant land on the south side of Greenwood Avenue)
06-  6-19-  Transfer of title of certain property to the Economic Development Authority
348  2006   (700 block on McArthur)
            Transfer of title of certain property to the Economic Development Authority
06-  9-5-   (the north boundary being the Indiana Harbor Railroad, the south boundary being
372  2006   Dolton Avenue (142nd Street), the east boundary being the Bishop Ford
            Expressway, the west boundary being the west boundary of Needles Park)
06-  9-18-  Transfer of title of certain property to the Economic Development Authority
373  2006   (14500 Park Avenue)
07-  4-2-   Sale of certain property (alley property located at approximately 14900-1/2 on
391  2007   Chicago Road)
07-  5-21-  Purchase of certain property (14150 Chicago Road)
401  2007
08-  9-2-   Sale of Department of Public Works’ personal property (vehicles)
441  2008
08-  10-30- Accepting the title of certain real estate
452  2008
09-  11-2-  Transfer of a title to the village’s Economic Development Authority (14143
486  2009   Lincoln)
09-  11-2-  Transfer of certain property to the village’s Economic Development Authority
487  2009   (14136 Grant Street)
09-  11-2-  Transfer of title of certain property to the village’s Economic Development
488  2009   Authority (on the north side of Main Street, approximately 50 feet west of
            Grant Street)
10-  6-7-   Sale of Department of Public Works’ personal property (vehicles)
500  2010
10-  11-1-  Sale of personal property (fire hydrants)
512  2010
10-  12-6-  Transfer of title of certain property (1321 Sibley Boulevard)
514  2010
11-  9-19-  Accepting title of certain property (14346 Murray Avenue)
538  2011
11-  12-5-  Accepting the title of certain property (13849 Lincoln Street)
546  2011
11-  12-5-  Accepting title of certain property (718 Engle Street)
547  2011
12-  4-16-  Purchase of certain property (14200 Cottage Grove)
553  2012
12-  5-7-   Sale of personal property (vehicles)
557  2012
12-  9-4-   Sale of certain property (718 Engle Street)
570  2012
12-  9-4-   Accepting the title to real estate (nine-acre parcel, adjacent to the Calumet
571  2012   Expressway and Greenwood Road)
12-  10-1-  Sale of Department of Public Works’ salvage personal property (vehicles)
578  2012
12-  11-19- Acceptance of title to 12.81 acres of vacant industrial property (14700 S.
781  2012   Harvard Street)
14-  5-5-   Sale of surplus property (vehicle)
010  2014
15-  3-2-   Sale of certain property
006  2015
15-  3-2-   Sale of surplus property (vehicles and equipment)
007  2015
15-  6-1-   Sale of surplus property (vehicles)
019  2015
15-  10-5-  Sale of certain real property (1515 E. 154th Street)
040  2015
15-  11-2-  Intergovernmental transfer of certain property (South Suburban Land Bank and
045  2015   Development Authority)
16-  - -    Sale of surplus property (vehicle)
003  2016
16-  3-7-   Sale of surplus property (fire truck and fire engine)
004  2016
19-  7-15-  Sale of surplus property (vehicles)
015  2019
           
 
TABLE VIII: AGREEMENTS, FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
91-  2-5-   Amending an escrow agreement with American National Bank and Trust Company of
141  1991   Chicago dated 7-1-1990
91-  3-5-   Authorizing an intergovernmental cooperation agreement in connection with the
142  1991   issuance of certain single-family mortgage revenue bonds
92-  5-26-  Agreement for the use of public ways for the conduct of a general telephone
181  1992   business to the Illinois Bell Telephone Company
93-  5-11-  Authorizing Commonwealth Edison Company to use public ways and public
208  1993   property for the operation and maintenance of an electric system
93-  5-11-  Authorizing a renewal of the agreement with the Riverdale Bank of Riverdale
209  1993   Illinois to provide a revolving line of credit between the village and
            Riverdale Bank
94-  1-25-  Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement for the property
236  1994   within the village’s tax increment project area
94-  3-16-  Authoring the entrance into a reciprocal intergovernmental police services
240  1994   agreement between the village and the village’s Park District
94-  9-20-  Approving membership in the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management
262  1994   Association (IMLRMA) and authorizing an intergovernmental cooperation
            agreement
94-  10-18- Amending the Calumet Region intergovernmental agreement
268  1994
95-  6-6-   Authorizing the execution of the redevelopment agreement
280  1995
96-  4-2-   Authorizing the acceptance of revenue pursuant to the Calumet City South
293  1996   Suburban Mayors and Managers Association agreement
96-  4-2-   Authorizing the acceptance of revenue pursuant to the Rosemont-West Central
294  1996   Municipal Conference agreement
96-  6-4-   Approving the merger between Continental Cablevision, Inc., and U.S. West,
300  1996   Inc.
97-  2-18-  Authorizing the execution of the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management
316  1997   Association (IMLRMA) minimum/ maximum contribution agreement
98-  2-3-   Authorizing the execution of a joint radio system and radio frequency use
357  1998   intergovernmental agreement between the Villages of Dolton, South Holland and
            Riverdale
98-  2-17-  Authorizing the participation in the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
359  1998   Development’s Direct Sales Program and Officer Next Door Program
98-  4-20-  Authorizing a water supply contract with the City of Chicago
366  1998
98-  4-20-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental service agreement with
367  1998   Southland South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association for mutual fire aid
99-  1-4-   Authorizing a mutual aid box alarm system agreement
101  1999
99-  3-1-   Authorizing the execution an intergovernmental agreement with the village’s
104  1999   Park District
99-  4-19-  Amending Ord. 92-196; cable television franchise with Continental Cablevision
106  1999   of Cook County, Inc.
00-  4-3-   Authorizing the execution and delivery of an intergovernmental cooperation
141  2000   agreement
01-  3-19-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the
165  2001   village’s Housing Authority
01-  3-19-  Authorizing the execution and delivery of an intergovernmental cooperation
166  2001   agreement
01-  9-17-  Approving a redevelopment agreement
172  2001
01-  11-5-  Authorizing the execution and delivery of the Calumet Region Enterprise Zone
176  2001   intergovernmental cooperation agreement
02-  3-4-   Authorizing the execution of a mutual aid intergovernmental police service
178  2002   agreement with the Chicago Southland South Suburban Mayors and Managers
            Association
02-  4-1-   Authorizing an intergovernmental cooperation agreement in connection with the
180  2002   issuance of certain single-family mortgage revenue bonds
03-  2-18-  Authorizing an intergovernmental cooperation agreement in connection with the
203  2003   issuance of certain single-family mortgage revenue bonds
03-  9-30-  Authorizing the acceptance of revenue pursuant to the Calumet City and the
230  2003   South Suburban Mayors and managers Association agreement
03-  9-30-  Repealing Ord. 96-294; authorizing the acceptance of revenue pursuant to the
231  2003   Rosemont-West Central Municipal Conference agreement
04-  1-20-  Providing for the pledge of the municipal utility tax from lease payments
239  2004
05-  3-7-   Authorizing the execution and delivery of an intergovernmental cooperation
283  2005   agreement with the village’s Economic Development Authority
05-  5-2-   Authorizing the execution and delivery of an intergovernmental cooperation
286  2005   agreement
05-  6-6-   Amending the non- exclusive cable television franchise agreement with Comcast
289  2005   of Illinois VI, LLC
08-  4-7-   Approving contractual agreements and payments for the Dorchester Senior
433  2008   Center Conversion to the Dorchester Supportive Living Facility project
11-  3-7-   Authorizing the execution of a ten- year contract for water supply with the
520  2011   City of Chicago
11-  6-28-  Authorizing the execution of a pre- annexation agreement with Land and Lakes
534  2011   Co., M.C.M. Land Co. and Marina Developments, Inc. for landfill property
11-  9-6-   Authoring the joining of the Southeast Commuter Rail Transit District
537  2011
13-  12-2-  Authorizing an additional ground space lease agreement with New Cingular
026  2013   Wireless PSC
14-  5-5-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement to transfer real estate
011  2014
14-  5-19-  Authorizing and approving the execution of a commercial license agreement
012  2014   with Giovanni’s Catering, Inc.
14-  10-6-  Authorizing a not-to- exceed $1,400,000 installment agreement with Municipal
025  2014   Funding Solutions, LLC, for the purchase of equipment
14-  12-1-  Authorizing an addendum to the mutual aid box alarm agreement
030  2014
15-  5-4-   Repealing Res. 13-R-0018; appointing Del Galdo Law Group, LLC, as legislative
009  2015   counsel for the Board of Trustees
16-  2-1-   Repealing Ord. 12-558, an agreement with Saint-Gobain Corporation
002  2016
16-  8-1-   Authorizing a not-to- exceed $1,300,000 installment agreement with Municipal
018  2016   Funding Solutions, LLC, for the purchase of equipment
16-  12-5-  Authorizing the execution of a settlement agreement (200 W. Sibley LLC)
025  2016
19-  4-15-  Authorizing the execution of the water supply agreement between the village
008  2019   and the City of Chicago
21-  11-5-  Approving and consenting to the renewal of Class 8 real property assessment
028  2021   classification
22-  12-5-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement for participation in the MABAS
006  2022   Master Agreement 2022
24-  6-3-   Authorizing a loan agreement concerning the public water supply loan program
006  2024
           
 
TABLE IX: COVID-RELATED FUNDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
22-009   11-14-2022  Establishing procedures for the use of federal, state and
                     local recovery funds (SLFRF)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                   Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.05              10.002
5 ILCS 70/1.07              10.002
5 ILCS 70/1.08              10.002
5 ILCS 70/1.10              10.002
5 ILCS 70/1.12              10.002
5 ILCS 70/1.15              10.002
5 ILCS 70/1.16              10.002
5 ILCS 70/1.17              10.002
5 ILCS 70/1.20              10.002
5 ILCS 70/1.24              10.002
5 ILCS 70/1.28              10.002
5 ILCS 70/1.29              10.002
                            30.026;
                            32.131;
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.        33.191;
                            33.198;
                            36.032
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.        112.041
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.    10.002
10 ILCS 5/10-8              30.004
10 ILCS 5/10-9              30.004
10 ILCS 5/10-10             30.004
20 ILCS 570/100 et seq.     123.001
30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.       50.086
30 ILCS 750/10-1 et seq.    32.122
35 ILCS 115/9               35.026
35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.       35.033
35 ILCS 120/3               35.025
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.       124.001;
                            124.004
35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.     124.003
35 ILCS 645/5-1 et seq.     153.063
40 ILCS 5/3-127             33.069
40 ILCS 5/3-132—5/3-140   33.069
40 ILCS 5/4-120             33.088
40 ILCS 5/4-123—5/4-129   33.088
50 ILCS 15                  32.037
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.       33.130
50 ILCS 720/1 et seq.       33.136
50 ILCS 750/0.01            36.033
                            160.001;
                            160.002;
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.       160.004;
                            160.016;
                            160.023
65 ILCS 5                   10.002
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2             10.002
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1           75.999
65 ILCS 5/1-2-2-1 et seq.   10.030
65 ILCS 5/1-2.1             10.040
65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-4           10.033
65 ILCS 5/1-2.14            70.046
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-21         33.131
65 ILCS 5/6-303(a)(1)       75.023
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1            35.025;
                            35.033
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1 et seq.    35.027
                            35.033;
                            35.034;
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2            35.999;
                            36.004;
                            124.004
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5            35.026
65 ILCS 5/8-11-6            35.027
65 ILCS 5/8-11-22           35.035
65 ILCS 5/8-11-24           35.038
65 ILCS 5/10-1-16           31.006
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5            134.002
                            33.185;
65 ILCS 5/11-10-2           33.191;
                            33.199
65 ILCS 5/11-12-8           157.022
65 ILCS 5/11-37-2           151.018
65 ILCS 5/11-42-5           Chapter 118
65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-1 et seq. 32.122
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq. 35.045
65 ILCS 20/0.01 et seq.     50.093
105 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.      134.001
105 ILCS 5/26-1(2)          134.001
210 ILCS 45                 121.005
                            35.033;
220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.    35.034;
                            160.020
220 ILCS 5/2-202            124.004
220 ILCS 5/9-221            124.001
220 ILCS 5/9-222            124.001
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1          124.001
220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.   153.064
220 ILCS 5/21-201(v)        153.061
220 ILCS 5/21-401           153.061
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.       153.075
220 ILCS 65/4               153.064
225 ILCS 305/1 et seq.      151.036
225 ILCS 320/1 et seq.      31.091;
                            151.020
225 ILCS 320/3              50.066
225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.      31.076
225 ILCS 340/1 et seq.      151.036;
                            160.004
                            35.037;
                            112.080;
                            112.100;
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.       112.103;
                            112.106;
                            112.109;
                            132.06
235 ILCS 5                  111.015
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.      110.039;
                            111.005
235 ILCS 5/1-3.01—5/1-3.38111.001
235 ILCS 5/3-12(a)(11.1)    111.019
235 ILCS 5/6-16             123.001;
                            123.008
235 ILCS 5/6-20             123.001;
                            123.008
235 ILCS 5/6-21             111.013
235 ILCS 5/6-27             111.019
235 ILCS 5/7-9              111.017
410 ILCS 45/6               97.006
                            35.035;
                            125.002;
410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.      125.003;
                            125.032;
                            136.001
                            125.002;
410 ILCS 705/1 et seq.      125.003;
                            125.032
410 ILCS 705/55-20          125.031
415 ILCS 5/4                50.066
415 ILCS 5/22-2             37.039
510 ILCS 50/1 et seq.       30.004
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.    153.061
                            10.034;
625 ILCS                    70.001;
                            75.023
625 ILCS 4-203(e)           75.023
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.    160.020
625 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.    75.020
625 ILCS 5/1-188            10.002
625 ILCS 5/3-100 et seq.    71.007;
                            71.008
625 ILCS 5/3-609            74.004
625 ILCS 5/3-616            74.004
625 ILCS 5/3-702            75.023
625 ILCS 5/3-703            75.023
625 ILCS 5/3-708            75.023
625 ILCS 5/3-710            75.023
625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.    37.020;
                            75.021
625 ILCS 5/5-502            75.023
625 ILCS 5/6-101            75.023
625 ILCS 5/6-204            10.032
625 ILCS 5/6-303(a)(1)      75.023
625 ILCS 5/6-303(a)(2)      75.023
625 ILCS 5/6-303E           75.023
625 ILCS 5/6-306.5          70.047;
                            74.006
625 ILCS 5/11-208.3         74.006
625 ILCS 5/11-208.3(b)(1)   70.047
625 ILCS 5/11-306           70.040;
                            70.042
                            70.006;
625 ILCS 5/11-501           75.023;
                            75.056
625 ILCS 5/11-501.1         75.056
625 ILCS 5/15-111(a)        72.008
625 ILCS 5/15-111(b)        72.008
625 ILCS 5/18c-1104         116.001;
                            116.025
625 ILCS 5/502              75.023
625 ILCS 6/6-101            75.023
                            131.001;
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.    134.001;
                            134.015
720 ILCS                    75.023;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.      112.020
720 ILCS 5/2-13             90.001
720 ILCS 5/8-1 et seq.      123.001
720 ILCS 5/9-1 et seq.      123.001;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/10-1 et seq.     123.001;
                            123.008
                            75.023;
720 ILCS 5/11-14            123.001;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/11-14.1          75.023
                            75.023;
720 ILCS 5/11-14.3          123.001;
                            123.008;
                            124.001
720 ILCS 5/11-14.4          75.023
720 ILCS 5/11-15            123.001;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/11-18            75.023
720 ILCS 5/11-18.1          75.023
720 ILCS 5/11-19            75.023
720 ILCS 5/11-19.1          75.023
720 ILCS 5/11-19.2          75.023
720 ILCS 5/11-20            123.001
720 ILCS 5/11-20.1          123.001;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/11-21            123.001;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/12               123.008
720 ILCS 5/12 et seq.       123.001;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/12C-60(a)—(d)  134.002
720 ILCS 5/16-1 et seq.     123.001;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/20-2 et seq.     123.001;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.     123.001;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/25-1 et seq.     123.001;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/26-1 et seq.     123.008
                            112.080;
720 ILCS 5/28-1             112.084;
                            123.008
720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq.     123.001
720 ILCS 5/28-2(b)          112.125
720 ILCS 5/31-1 et seq.     123.001
720 ILCS 5/37-1             123.001
                            70.006;
                            75.023;
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.      123.001;
                            123.008;
                            136.015
720 ILCS 550/4              75.023
720 ILCS 550/5              75.023
720 ILCS 550/5.1            75.023
720 ILCS 550/5.2            75.023
720 ILCS 550/8              75.023
720 ILCS 570                75.023
720 ILCS 570, para. 401—4175.023
                            70.006;
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.    75.023;
                            123.008;
                            136.015
720 ILCS 600/3.5            75.023
725 ILCS 5/100-1 et seq.    136.017
735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.    31.999;
                            35.999
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.    10.042
735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq.   10.043;
                            75.056
735 ILCS 5/15-1101 et seq.  136.036
740 ILCS 115/1 et seq.      134.019
750 ILCS 5/101 et seq.      134.001;
                            136.017
755 ILCS 5/25-1             37.024
765 ILCS 1030/1—1030/5    37.020
                            111.005;
805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.     114.094;
                            135.017
810 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.    10.043
820 ILCS 130/1 et seq.      34.004
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.      153.067
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2026 Code
Prior Code 2026 Code
1-1-1      10.001
1-1-2      10.001
1-1-3      10.009
1-1-4      10.009
1-1-5      10.018
1-2-1      10.013
1-2-2      10.014
1-2-3      10.019
1-2-4      10.010
1-2-5      10.010
1-3-1      10.004
1-3-2      10.002
1-3-3      10.003
1-4-1      10.999
1-4-2      10.999
1-4-3      10.999
1-4-4      10.999
1-5-1      30.001
1-5-2      30.002
1-5-3      30.003
1-5-4      30.004
1-6-1      30.020
1-6-2      30.021
1-6-3      30.022
1-6-4      30.023
1-6-5      30.024
1-6-6      30.025
1-6-7      30.026
1-6-8      30.027
1-6-9      30.028
1-7-1      31.020
1-7-2      31.021
1-7-3      31.022
1-7-4      31.023
1-7-5      31.024
1-7-6      31.025
1-7-7      31.026
1-8-1      31.001
1-8A-1     31.040
1-8A-2     31.041
1-8A-3     31.042
1-8A-4     31.043
1-8A-5     31.044
1-8A-6     31.045
1-8A-7     31.046
1-8B-1     31.060
1-8B-2     31.061
1-8B-3     31.062
1-8C-1     31.075
1-8C-2     31.076
1-8C-3     31.077
1-8D-1     31.090
1-8D-2     31.091
1-8D-3     31.092
1-8D-4     31.093
1-8-2      31.002
1-8-3-1    31.003
1-8-3-2    31.004
1-8-3-3    31.005
1-8-4      31.006
1-9-1      32.001
1-9-2      32.002
1-9-3      32.003
1-9-4      32.004
1-9-5      32.005
1-9-6      32.006
1-9-7      32.007
1-9-8      32.008
1-10-1     35.001
1-10-2     35.002
1-10-3     35.003
1-10-4     35.004
1-10-5     35.005
1-10-6     35.006
1-10-7     35.007
1-10-8     35.008
1-10-9     35.009
1-10-10-1  37.020
1-10-10-2  37.021
1-10-10-3  37.022
1-10-10-4  37.023
1-10-10-5  37.024
1-11-1     31.007
1-13-1     37.001
1-13-2     11.001
1-13-3     37.002
2-1-1      32.020
2-1-2      32.021
2-1-3      32.022
2-1-4      32.023
2-1-5      32.024
2-2-1      32.035
2-2-2      32.036
2-2-3      32.037
2-2-4      32.038
2-3-1      32.050
2-3-2      32.051
2-3-3      32.052
2-3-4      32.053
2-3-5      32.054
2-4-1      32.085
2-4-2      32.086
2-4-3      32.087
2-4-4      32.088
2-5-1      32.065
2-5-2      32.066
2-5-3      32.067
2-5-4      32.068
2-5-5      32.069
2-5-6      32.070
2-5-7      32.071
2-5-8      32.072
2-5-9      32.073
2-5-10     32.074
2-6-1      33.015
2-6-2      33.016
2-6-3      33.017
2-6-4      33.018
2-6-5      33.019
2-6-6      33.020
2-6-7      33.021
2-6-8      33.022
2-6-9      33.023
2-6-10     33.024
2-6-11     33.025
2-6-12     33.026
2-7-1      33.040
2-7-2      33.041
2-7-3      33.042
2-7-4      33.043
2-7-5      33.044
2-7-6      33.045
2-7-7      33.046
2-7-8      33.047
2-7-9      33.048
2-7-10     33.049
2-7-11     33.050
2-8-1      33.065
2-8-2      33.066
2-8-3      33.067
2-8-4      33.068
2-8-5      33.069
2-8-6      33.070
2-8-7      33.071
2-9-1      33.085
2-9-2      33.086
2-9-3      33.087
2-9-4      33.088
2-9-5      33.089
2-9-6      33.090
2-10-1     32.100
2-10-2     32.101
2-10-3     32.102
2-10-4     32.103
2-10-5     32.104
2-10-6     32.105
2-10-7     32.106
2-12-1     32.145
2-12-2     32.146
2-12-3     32.147
2-12-4     32.148
2-12-5     32.149
2-13-1     32.160
2-13-2     32.161
2-13-3     32.162
2-13-4     32.163
2-13-5     32.164
2-13-6     32.165
2-13-7     32.166
2-13-8     32.167
2-13-9     32.168
2-14-1     32.180
2-14-2     32.181
2-14-3     32.182
2-14-4     32.183
2-14-5     32.184
2-14-6     32.185
2-14-7     32.186
2-15-1     32.200
2-15-2     32.201
2-15-3     32.202
2-15-4     32.203
3-1-1      110.001
3-1-2      110.002
3-1-3      110.003
3-1-4      110.004
3-1-5      110.006
3-1-6      110.007
3-1-7      110.008
3-1-8      110.009
3-1-9      110.010
3-1-10     110.011
3-1-11     110.012
3-1-12     110.013
3-1-13     110.014
3-1-14     110.015
3-1-15     110.016
3-1-16     110.017
3-1A-1     110.018
3-1A-2     110.018
3-2-1      35.025
3-2-2      35.026
3-2-3      35.027
3-2-4      35.028;
           35.999
3-2-5      35.029;
           35.999
3-3-1      111.001
3-3-2      111.002
3-3-3      111.003
3-3-4      111.004
3-3-5      111.005
3-3-6      111.006
3-3-7      111.007
3-3-8      111.008
3-3-9      111.009
3-3-10     111.010
3-3-11     111.011
3-3-12     111.012
3-3-13     111.013
3-3-14     111.014
3-3-15     111.015
3-3-16     111.016
3-3-17     111.017
3-3-18     111.018
3-3-19     111.999
3-4A-2     112.112;
           112.999
3-4A-3     112.113
3-5-1      113.001
3-5-2      113.002
3-5-3      113.003
3-5-4      113.004
3-5-5      113.005
3-5-6      113.006
3-6-1      114.055
3-6-2      114.056
3-6-3      114.057
3-6-4      114.058
3-6-5      114.059
3-6-6      114.060
3-7-1      114.075
3-7-2      114.076
3-7-3      114.077
3-7-4      114.078
3-8-1      115.025
3-8-2      115.026
3-8-3      115.027
3-8-4      115.028
3-8-5      115.029
3-8-6      115.030
3-8-7      115.031
3-8-8      115.032
3-8-9      115.033
3-8-10     115.034
3-8-11     115.999
3-11-1     114.115
3-11-2     114.116
3-11-3     114.117
3-11-4     114.118
3-11-5     114.119
3-12-1     114.130
3-12-2     114.131
3-12-3     114.132
3-12-4     114.133
3-13-1-1   119.015
3-13-1-2   119.016
3-13-1-3   119.017
3-13-1-4   119.018
3-13-1-5   119.019
3-13-1-6   119.999
3-13-2-1   119.030
3-13-2-2   119.031
3-13-2-3   119.032
3-13-3     119.001;
           119.999
3-15A-1    114.145
3-15A-2    114.146
3-15A-3    114.147
3-15A-4    114.148
3-15B-1-1  114.160
3-15B-1-2  114.161
3-15B-1-3  114.162
3-15B-1-4  114.163
3-15B-1-5  114.164
3-15B-1-6  114.165
3-15B-1-7  114.166
3-15B-2-1  114.180
3-15B-2-2  114.181
3-15B-2-3  114.182
3-15B-2-4  114.183
3-15B-2-5  114.999
3-16-1-1   114.195
3-16-1-2   114.196
3-16-1-3   114.197
3-16-1-4   114.198
3-16-2-1   114.210
3-16-2-2   114.211
3-17-1     114.225
3-17-2     114.226
3-17-3     114.227
3-18A-1    116.045
3-18A-2    116.046
3-18A-3    116.047
3-18A-4    116.048
3-18A-5    116.049
3-18B-1    116.060
3-18B-2    116.061
3-18B-3    116.062
3-18B-4    116.063
3-18B-5    116.064
3-18B-6    116.065
3-18B-7    116.066
3-18D-8    116.102
3-18C-1    116.080
3-18C-2    116.081
3-18C-3    116.082
3-18C-4    116.083
3-18D-1    116.095
3-18D-2    116.096
3-18D-3    116.097
3-18D-4    116.098
3-18D-5    116.099
3-18D-6    116.100
3-18D-7    116.101
3-18D-9    116.103
3-18E-1    116.115
3-18E-2    116.116
3-18E-3    116.117
3-18E-4    116.118
3-19-1     116.130
3-19-2     116.131
3-19-3     116.132
3-20-1     117.001
3-20-2     117.002
3-20-3     117.003
3-20-4     117.004
3-20-5     117.005
3-20-5-1   117.005
3-20-6     117.006
3-20-7     117.007
3-20-8     117.008
3-20-9     117.009
3-20-10    117.010
3-20A-1    117.025
3-20A-2    117.026
3-20A-3    117.027
3-20A-4    117.028
3-21-1     112.125
3-21-2     112.126
3-21-3     112.127
3-21-4     112.128
3-21-5     112.129
3-21-6     112.130
3-21-7     112.999
4-1-1      33.155
4-1-2-1    33.156
4-1-2-2    33.157
4-1-2-3    33.158
4-1-2-4    33.159
4-1-3      33.160
4-1-4      33.161
4-1-5      33.162
4-1-6      33.163
4-1-7      33.164
4-1-8      33.165
4-1-9      33.166
4-1-10     33.167
4-1-11     33.168
4-1-12     33.169
4-2A-1     121.001
4-2A-2     121.002
4-2A-3     121.003
4-2A-4     121.004
4-2A-5     121.005
4-2B-1     121.020
4-2B-2     121.021
4-2B-3     121.022
4-2B-4     121.023
4-2B-5     121.024
4-2B-6     121.025
4-3-1      95.001
4-3-2      95.002
4-4-1      95.015
4-4-2      95.016
4-4-3      95.017
4-4-4      95.018
4-4-5      95.019
4-4-6      95.999
4-5-1      91.001
4-5-2      91.002
4-5-3-1    91.003
4-5-3-2    91.004
4-5-3-3    91.005
4-5-3-4    91.006
4-5-3-5    91.007
4-5-4      91.008
4-5-5      91.009
4-5-6      91.010
4-5-7      91.011
4-5-8      91.999
4-6-1      131.020
4-6-2      131.021
4-6-3      131.022
4-6-4      131.023
4-6-5      131.999
4-7-1      120.001
4-7A-1     120.040
4-7A-2     120.041
4-7A-3     120.042
4-7A-4     120.043
4-7A-5     120.044
4-7A-6     120.045
4-7A-7     120.046
4-7A-8     120.047
4-7A-9     120.048
4-7A-10    120.049
4-7A-11    120.050
4-7A-12    120.999
4-7B-1     120.002
4-7B-2     120.002
4-7B-3     120.002
4-7C-1     120.003
4-7C-2     120.003
4-7C-3     120.003
4-7C-4     120.003
4-7D-1     120.004
4-7D-2     120.004
4-7D-3     120.004
4-7D-4     120.004
4-7D-5     120.004
4-7E-1     120.005
4-7E-2     120.005
4-7E-3     120.005
4-7E-4     120.005
4-7E-5     120.005
4-7E-6     120.005
4-7F-1     120.006
4-7F-2     120.006
4-7F-3     120.006
4-8-1      120.007
4-8-2      120.007
4-8-3      120.007
4-8-4      120.007
4-9-1      51.001
4-9-2      51.002
4-9-3      51.003
4-9-4      51.004
4-9-5      51.005;
           51.999
4-9-6      51.006
4-9-7      51.007
4-9-8      51.008
4-9-9      51.009
4-9-10     51.999
4-10-1     95.030
4-10-2     95.031
4-10-3     95.032
4-10-4     95.033
4-10-5     95.034
4-10-6     95.035
4-10-7     95.999
4-11-1     75.001
4-11-2     75.002
4-11-3     75.003
4-11-4     75.004
4-11-5     75.005
4-11-6     75.006
4-11-7     75.999
4-12-1     36.001
4-12-2     36.002
4-12-3     36.003
4-12-4     36.004
4-12-5     36.005
4-12-6     36.006
4-12-7     36.007
4-12-8     36.008
4-12-9     36.009
4-12-10    36.010
4-12-11    36.011
4-12-12    36.025
4-12-13    36.026
4-12-14    36.027
4-12-15    36.028
4-12-16    36.029
4-12-17    36.030
4-12-18    36.031
4-12-19    36.032
4-12-20    36.033
4-12-21    36.034
4-12-22    36.034
4-12-23    36.034
4-12-24    36.035
4-12-25    36.035
5-1-1      33.105
5-1-2      33.106
5-1-3      33.107
5-1-4      33.110
5-1-5      33.111
5-1-6      33.112
5-1-7      33.113
5-1-8      33.114
5-1-9      33.115
5-1-10     33.116
5-1-11     33.117
5-1-12     33.999
5-3-1      33.001
5-3-2      33.002
5-3-3      33.003
5-3-4      33.999
5-5-1-1    130.001
5-5-1-2    130.002
5-5-1-3    130.003
5-5-1-4    130.004
5-5-1-5    130.005
5-5-1-6    130.006
5-5-1-7    130.007
5-5-2-1    132.001
5-5-2-1    132.999
5-5-2-2    132.002
5-5-2-3    132.003
5-5-2-4    132.004
5-5-2-5    132.005
5-5-2-6    132.006
5-5-3-1    133.001
5-5-3-2    133.002
5-5-3-3    133.003
5-5-3-4    133.004;
           133.999
5-5-3-5    133.005
5-5-4-1    131.003
5-5-4-2    131.005
5-5-4-3    131.006
5-5-4-4    131.007
5-5-4-5    131.001
5-5-4-5    131.004
5-5-4-5    131.008
5-5-5      133.006;
           133.999
5-5-6      133.007
5-5-7      133.008;
           133.999
5-5-8      133.009;
           133.999
5-5-9      133.010
5-5-10     133.11
5-5-11     133.012
5-5-12     133.013
5-6-2      134.003
5-7-1      135.001;
           135.999
5-7-2      135.002
5-7-4      135.003
5-8-1      93.001
5-8-2      93.002
5-8-3      93.003
5-8-4      93.004
5-8-5      93.005
5-8-6      93.006
5-8-7      93.007
5-8-8      93.008
5-8-9      93.009
5-8-10     93.010
5-8-11     93.011
5-8-12     93.012
5-8-13     93.999
6-1-1      71.001
6-1-2      71.002
6-1-3      71.003
6-1-4      71.004
6-1-5      71.005
6-1-6      71.006
6-2-1      70.001
6-2-2      70.002
6-2-3      70.003
6-2-4      70.025
6-2-4-1    70.020
6-2-4-2    70.021
6-2-4-3    70.022
6-2-4-4    70.023
6-2-4-5    70.024
6-2-4-6    70.025
6-2-5      70.004
6-2-6      70.005
6-2-7      70.006
6-2-8      70.007
6-3-1      73.001
6-3-2      73.002
6-3-3      73.003
6-3-4      73.004
6-3-5      73.005
6-3-6      73.006
6-3-7      73.007
6-3-8      73.008
6-3-9      73.009
6-3-10     73.010
6-3-11     73.011
6-3-12     73.012
6-3-13     73.013
6-3-14     73.014
6-3-15     73.015
6-3-16     73.016
6-3-17     73.017
6-3-18     73.018
6-3-19     73.019
6-3-20     73.020
6-3-21     73.021
6-3-22     73.022
6-3-23     73.023
6-3-24     73.024
6-4-1      74.001
6-4A-1     74.020
6-4A-2     74.021
6-4A-3     74.022
6-4A-4     74.023
6-4A-5     74.024
6-4-2      74.002
6-4-3      74.003
6-4-4      74.004
6-4-5      74.005
6-4B-1     74.035
6-4B-2     74.036
6-4B-3     74.037
6-4B-4     74.038
6-4B-5     74.039
6-4B-6-1   74.040
6-4B-6-2   74.041
6-4B-6-3   74.042
6-4B-6-4   74.043
6-4B-6-5   74.044
6-4B-7     74.045
6-4B-8     74.046
6-4B-9     74.047
6-4B-10    74.048
6-5-1      Ch. 79, Schd. I
6-5-2      Ch. 79, Schd. II
6-5-3      Ch. 79, Schd. II
6-5-4      Ch. 79, Schd. II
6-5-4-1    Ch. 79, Schd. II
6-5-4-2    Ch. 79, Schd. III
6-5-4-3    Ch. 79, Schd. IV
6-5-4-4    Ch. 80, Schd. I
6-5-4-5    Ch. 79, Schd. V
6-5-4-6    Ch. 79, Schd. VI,
           VII
6-5-4-7    Ch. 80, Schd. II
6-5-4-8    Ch. 79, Schd. VII
6-5-4-9    Ch. 79, Schd. VIII
6-5-4-10   Ch. 79, Schd. IX
6-5-5      Ch. 79, Schd. VI
6-5-7-1    Ch. 80, Schd. I
6-5-7-2    Ch. 80, Schd. III
6-5-7-3    Ch. 80, Schd. IV
6-5-7-4    Ch. 80, Schd. V
6-5-7-5    Ch. 80, Schd. VI
6-5-7-6    Ch. 80, Schd. VII
6-5-7-7    Ch. 80, Schd. VIII
6-5-8      Ch. 80, Schd. IX
6-5-9      Ch. 79, Schd. I,
           VI
6-6-1      72.001
6-6-2      72.002
6-6-3      72.003
6-6-4      72.004
6-6-5      72.005
6-6-6      72.006
6-6-7      72.007
6-6-8      72.008
6-6-9      72.009
6-7-1-1    76.015
6-7-1-2    76.016
6-7-1-3    76.017
6-7-1-4    76.018
6-7-1-5    76.019
6-7-1-6    76.020
6-7-2-1    76.035
6-7-2-2    76.036
6-7-2-3    76.037
6-7-2-4    76.038
6-7-2-5    76.039
6-7-3      76.001
6-8-1      77.001
6-8-2      77.002
6-8-3      77.003
6-8-4      77.004
6-8-5      77.005
6-9-1      75.020
6-9-2      75.021
6-9-5      75.024
6-9-6      75.025
6-9-7      75.026
6-10-1     70.008
6-10-2     70.008
6-10-3     70.999
7-1-1      153.001
7-1-2      153.002
7-1-3      153.003
7-1-4      153.004
7-1-5      153.005
7-2-1-1    153.020
7-2-1-2    153.021
7-2-1-3    153.022
7-2-1-4    153.023
7-2-1-5    153.024
7-2-1-6    153.025
7-2-1-7    153.999
7-2-2-1    153.040
7-2-2-2    153.041
7-2-2-3    153.042
7-2-2-4    153.043
7-2-2-5    153.044
7-2-2-6    153.045
7-3-1      94.001
7-3-2      94.002;
           94.999
7-3-3      94.003
7-4-1      154.001
7-4-2      154.002
7-4-3      154.003
7-4-4      154.004
7-4-5      154.005
7-4-6      154.999
7-5-1      78.001
7-5-2      78.002
7-5-3      78.003
7-5-4      78.004;
           78.999
7-5-5      78.005
7-5-6      78.999
7-6-1      50.001
7-6-2      50.002
7-6-3      50.003
7-6A-1     50.085
7-6A-2     50.086
7-6A-3-1   50.087
7-6A-3-2   50.088
7-6A-3-3   50.089
7-6A-3-4   50.090
7-6A-3-5   50.091
7-6A-3-6   50.999
7-6-4      50.004
7-6A-4-1   50.092
7-6A-4-2   50.093;
           50.999
7-6A-4-3   50.094
7-6A-4-4   50.095
7-6-5      50.005
7-6-6-1    50.020
7-6-6-2    50.021
7-6-6-3    50.022
7-6-6-4    50.024
7-6-6-5    50.025
7-6-6-6    50.026
7-6-7-1    50.040
7-6-7-2    50.041
7-6-7-3    50.043
7-6-7-4    50.044
7-6-7-5    50.045
7-6-7-6    50.046
7-6-7-7    50.047
7-6-7-8    50.048
7-6-7-11   50.999
7-6-8      50.006
7-6-9      50.007
7-6-10     50.008
7-7-1      155.001
7-7-2      155.002
7-7-3      155.003
7-7-4      155.004
7-7-5      155.999
8-1-1      151.015
8-1-2      151.016
8-1-3      151.017
8-1-4      151.018
8-1-5      151.019
8-1-6      151.020
8-1-7      151.021;
           151.999
8-1-8      151.022
8-1-9      151.023
8-1-10     151.024
8-2-1-1    151.035
8-2-1-2    151.999
8-2-2      151.036
8-2-2-2    151.999
8-2-3      151.037
8-2-4      151.038
8-2-5      151.039
8-2-6      151.040
8-2-7      151.041
8-2-8      151.042
8-2A-1     151.001
8-3-1      151.055
8-3-2      151.056
8-3-3      151.057
8-3-4      151.058
8-3-5      151.059
8-3-6      151.060
8-3-7      151.061
8-3-8      151.062
8-3-9      151.063
8-3-10     151.999
8-4-1      151.075;
           151.999
8-4-2      151.076
8-4-3      151.077
8-4-4      151.078
8-4-5      151.079
8-4-6      151.080
8-4-7      151.081
8-4-8      151.082
8-4-9      151.083
8-4-10     151.084
8-4-11     151.085
8-4-12     151.086
8-4-13     151.087
8-4-14     151.999
8-5A-1     152.020
8-5A-2     152.021
8-5A-3     152.022
8-5A-6     152.023
8-6-1      151.100
8-6-2      151.101
8-6-3      151.999
8-7-1      151.115
8-7-2      151.116
8-7-3      151.117
8-7-4      151.118
8-7-5      151.119
8-7-6      151.120
8-7-7      151.121;
           151.999
8-7-8      151.122
8-7-9      151.123
8-7-10     151.124
8-7-11     151.125
8-7-12     151.999
8-8-1      151.140
8-9-1      151.155
8-9-2      151.156
8-9-3      151.157;
           151.999
8-9-4      151.158;
           151.999
8-9-5      151.159
8-9-6      151.159
8-9-7      151.999
8-10-1     151.175
8-10-2     151.176
8-10-3     151.177
8-10-4     151.178
8-10-5     151.179
8-11A-1    159.001
8-11A-2    159.002
8-11A-3    159.003
8-11A-4    159.004
8-11A-5    159.005
8-11A-6    159.006
8-11A-7    159.007
8-11A-8    159.008
8-11A-9    159.009
8-11A-10   159.010
8-11A-11   159.011
8-11A-12   159.012
8-11A-13   159.013
8-11A-14   159.014
8-11A-15   159.015
8-11A-16   159.016
8-11A-17   159.017
8-11B-1    159.030
8-11B-2    159.031
8-11B-3    159.032
8-11B-4    159.033
8-11B-5    159.034
8-11B-6    159.035
8-11B-7    159.036
8-11B-8    159.037
8-11B-9    159.038
8-11B-10   159.039
8-12-1     151.002
8-12-2     151.002
8-13-1     151.190
8-13-2     151.191
8-13-3     151.192
8-13-4     151.193
8-13-5     151.194
8-13-6     151.195
8-13-7     151.196
8-13-8     151.197
8-13-9     151.198;
           151.999
8-13-10    151.199
8-13-11    151.999
9-1-1      150.001
9-1-2      150.002
9-1-3      150.003
10-1-1     158.001
10-1-2     158.002
10-1-3     158.003
10-1-4     158.004
10-2-1     158.005
10-2-2     158.005
10-2-3     158.006
10-3-1     158.007
10-3-2     158.008
10-3-3     158.009
10-3-4     158.010
10-3-5     158.011
10-3-6     158.012
10-4-1     158.025
10-4-2     158.026
10-4-3     158.027
10-4-4     158.028
10-4-5     158.029
10-4-6     158.030
10-5-1     158.045
10-5A-1    158.046
10-5A-2    158.046
10-5A-3    158.046
10-5A-4    158.046
10-5A-5    158.046
10-5A-6    158.046
10-5A-7    158.046
10-5B-1    158.046
10-5B-2    158.046
10-5B-3    158.046
10-5B-4    158.046
10-5B-5    158.046
10-5B-6    158.046
10-5B-7    158.046
10-5C-1    158.048
10-5C-2    158.048
10-5C-3    158.048
10-5C-4    158.048
10-5C-5    158.048
10-5C-6    158.048
10-5C-7    158.048
10-5D-1    158.049
10-5D-2    158.049
10-5D-3    158.049
10-5D-4    158.049
10-5D-5    158.049
10-5D-6    158.049
10-5D-7    158.049
10-5E-1    158.050
10-5E-2    158.050
10-5E-3    158.050
10-5E-4    158.050
10-5E-5    158.050
10-5E-6    158.050
10-5E-7    158.050
10-5F-1    158.051
10-5F-2    158.051
10-5F-3    158.051
10-5F-4    158.051
10-5F-5    158.051
10-5F-6    158.051
10-5F-7    158.051
10-5F-8    158.051
10-5F-9    158.051
10-6-1     158.065
10-6-2     158.066
10-6-3     158.067
10-6A-1    158.068
10-6A-2    158.068
10-6A-3    158.068
10-6B-1    158.069
10-6B-2    158.069
10-6B-3    158.069
10-6B-4    158.069
10-6B-5    158.069
10-6B-6    158.069
10-6B-7    158.069
10-6B-8    158.069
10-6C-1    158.070
10-6C-2    158.070
10-6C-3    158.070
10-6C-4    158.070
10-6C-5    158.070
10-6C-6    158.070
10-6C-7    158.070
10-6C-8    158.070
10-6D-1    158.071
10-6D-2    158.071
10-6D-3    158.071
10-6D-4    158.071
10-6D-5    158.071
10-6D-6    158.071
10-6D-7    158.071
10-6D-8    158.071
10-6E-1    158.072
10-6E-2    158.072
10-6E-3    158.072
10-6E-4    158.072
10-6E-5    158.072
10-6E-6    158.072
10-7-1     158.085
10-7A-1    158.086
10-7A-2    158.086
10-7A-3    158.086
10-7A-4    158.086
10-7A-5    158.086
10-7A-6    158.086
10-7A-7    158.086
10-7A-8    158.086
10-7B-1    158.087
10-7B-2    158.087
10-7B-3    158.087
10-7B-4    158.087
10-7B-5    158.087
10-7B-6    158.087
10-7B-7    158.087
10-7B-8    158.087
10-8-1     158.100
10-8-2     158.101
10-8-3     158.102
10-9-1     158.115
10-9-2     158.116
10-9-3-1   158.117
10-9-3-2   158.118
10-9-3-3   158.119
10-9-3-4   158.120
10-9-3-5   158.121
10-9-3-6   158.122
10-9-4     158.123
10-9-5     158.124
10-9-6     158.125
10-10-1    158.140
10-10-2    158.141
10-10-3-1  158.142
10-10-3-2  158.143
10-10-3-3  158.144
10-10-3-4  158.145
10-11-1    158.160
10-11-2    158.161
10-11-4    158.162
10-12-1    158.175
10-12-2    158.176
10-12-3    158.177
10-12-4    158.178
10-12-5    158.179
10-13-1    158.190
10-13-2    158.191
10-13-3    158.192
10-13-4    158.193
10-13-5    158.194
10-13-6    158.195
10-13-7    158.999
11-1-1     157.001
11-1-2     157.002
11-1-3     157.003
11-1-4     157.004
11-1-5     157.005
11-1-6     157.006
11-1-7     157.007
11-1-8     157.008
11-1-9     157.999
11-2-1     157.020
11-2-2     157.021
11-2-3     157.022
11-3-1     157.035
11-3-2     157.036
11-3-3     157.037
11-3-4     157.038
11-3-5     157.039
11-3-6     157.040
11-3-7     157.041
11-3-8     157.042
11-3-9     157.043
11-3-10    157.044
11-4-1     157.055
11-4-2     157.056
11-4-3     157.057
11-4-4     157.058
11-4-5     157.059
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
85R-119   6-25-1985   134.003
13-R-0013 6-3-2013    30.026
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO Table VI
-        8-24-1971   30.024
-        3-14-1972   158.195
-        3-28-1972   158.123
-        9-19-1972   Ch. 80, Schd. IV
                     32.161;
-        2-6-1973    32.162;
                     32.167
-        3-6-1973    Ch. 80, Schd. III
-        5-1-1973    120.005
-        7-3-1973    Ch. 80, Schd. III
-        7-17-1973   Ch. 80, Schd. IV
-        10-2-1973   Ch. 80, Schd. V
                     32.160;
-        11-20-1973  32.161;
                     32.163;
                     32.168
-        1-14-1974   32.036
-        3-5-1974    Ch. 80, Schd. III
-        4-9-1974    Ch. 80, Schd. III;
                     151.016
-        6-11-1974   Ch. 80, Schd. V
-        7-16-1974   Ch. 80, Schd. III
-        8-20-1974   Ch. 80, Schd. III
-        9-3-1974    151.016
-        10-1-1974   35.027
-        1-8-1975    Ch. 80, Schd. III
-        1-14-1975   32.038
-        2-18-1975   111.017
-        3-4-1975    111.015
-        3-18-1975   158.176
-        3-25-1975   Ch. 80, Schd. III
-        9-9-1975    31.004
-        2-10-1976   Ch. 79, Schd. VII
-        4-6-1976    158.008
-        4-13-1976   50.023
-        5-25-1976   158.145
-        6-1-1976    158.067
-        10-5-1976   35.028;
                     35.999
-        11-23-1976  158.071;
                     158.176
-        12-7-1976   35.028;
                     35.999
-        12-14-1976  30.003;
                     30.021
-        9-20-1977   115.999
-        5-30-1978   37.002
-        6-13-1978   33.106;
                     153.020
-        10-3-1978   Ch. 80, Schd. III
-        12-19-1978  35.025;
                     35.026
-        5-1-1979    121.025
-        5-22-1979   78.002;
                     78.003
-        7-31-1979   32.106
-        9-18-1979   Ch. 79, Schd. VII
-        10-23-1979  Ch. 80, Schd. V
-        11-6-1979   74.048;
                     Ch. 80, Schd. VII
-        11-27-1979  Ch. 80, Schd. VII
-        12-11-1979  37.021—
                     37.024
-        2-19-1980   158.070
-        3-25-1980   70.008
-        5-13-1980   51.009
-        7-8-1980    31.022
-        10-14-1980  151.177
-        1-13-1981   Ch. 80, Schd. VI
-        9-22-1981   Ch. 80, Schd. V
-        11-24-1981  Ch. 80, Schd. III
-        12-22-1981  74.004
-        3-16-1982   Ch. 80, Schd. VI
92-174   3-31-1982   159.037
-        7-27-1982   50.025
-        1-4-1983    151.040
-        1-11-1983   151.038
-        6-14-1983   51.003
-        7-5-1983    37.021;
                     158.143
                     50.092;
-        9-20-1983   50.093;
                     50.095;
                     50.999
-        11-1-1983   32.181;
                     32.186
-        3-20-1984   158.142
                     50.025;
                     151.035;
                     151.056;
                     151.059;
-        5-15-1984   151.075;
                     151.078;
                     151.101;
                     151.999;
                     152.022;
                     157.022
-        8-4-1984    158.008
-        8-7-1984    Ch. 80, Schd. V
-        4-3-1985    33.163;
                     151.041
85-104   5-5-1985    117.006
85-110   6-4-1985    32.182
85-112   6-4-1985    75.026
85-113   6-11-1985   33.047
85-117   6-18-1985   32.149
85-115   7-2-1985    71.004
85-120   7-2-1985    75.999
85-116B  7-9-1985    31.045
85-135   10-15-1985  33.047
85-136   10-15-1985  33.161
85-139   12-12-1985  33.041;
                     33.043
85-140   12-12-1985  32.066
86-101   1-6-1986    31.002
86-102   1-13-1986   158.195
                     51.005;
                     51.999;
                     110.016;
                     110.018;
                     112.113;
                     114.057;
                     114.132;
                     114.146;
                     114.163;
                     114.195;
86-114   4-15-1986   114.211;
                     114.226;
                     116.047;
                     116.062;
                     116.098;
                     116.118;
                     117.005;
                     120.004;
                     120.005;
                     120.043;
                     121.002;
                     121.005
86-115   4-15-1986   31.006
86-135   7-29-1986   32.004;
                     32.007
86-137   10-14-1986  111.016
86-140   11-5-1986   32.203
86-142   11-18-1986  74.002
87-20    1-13-1987   50.092
87-106   2-17-1987   35.004
                     110.018;
87-132   - -1987     111.006;
                     111.007;
                     111.012
                     158.006;
87-138   11-24-1987  158.162;
                     158.195
87-141   12-22-1987  31.046
88-104   1-26-1988   117.005
88-108z  3-22-1988   TSO Table II
88-119   5-10-1988   111.007
88-126   6-28-1988   50.020
88-128z  6-28-1988   TSO Table II
88-131   6-28-1988   TSO Table IV
88-136   7-26-1988   51.003
88-137   7-26-1988   151.140
88-144   8-9-1988    110.018;
                     111.006
88-148   8-23-1988   10.999
88-151   10-11-1988  33.156
89-108   5-2-1989    TSO Table VI
89-109   5-2-1989    TSO Table VI
89-115z  6-13-1989   TSO Table II
89-125   10-11-1989  158.145
89-127   10-31-1989  158.086;
                     158.087
89-128   11-14-1989  32.145;
                     32.146
89-132   12-12-1989  32.008
                     36.001—
90-101   1-2-1990    36.011;
                     36.025—
                     36.035
90-104   1-20-1990   37.003
90-103   1-30-1990   112.999
90-106   2-27-1990   32.004
90-117   5-8-1990    TSO Table VII
90-113   7-10-1990   50.020
90-125z  7-10-1990   TSO Table II
                     96.001—
90-133   10-16-1990  96.007;
                     96.999
90-134   10-16-1990  158.006
90-136   10-16-1990  111.007
                     158.006;
90-140   12-18-1990  158.046;
                     158.176;
                     158.191
91-141   2-5-1991    TSO Table VIII
91-142   3-5-1991    TSO Table VIII
91-144   3-19-1991   TSO Table II
91-145   4-3-1991    Ch. 79, Schd. VII
91-148   4-30-1991   TSO Table VII
                     151.235—
91-149   4-30-1991   151.244;
                     151.999
91-150   5-28-1991   151.001
91-155   5-28-1991   151.041
91-157   6-11-1991   TSO Table II
91-158   6-25-1991   110.005
                     111.006;
91-159   6-25-1991   111.007;
                     111.022
91-160   6-25-1991   50.041
91-161   7-9-1991    72.008
91-162   7-9-1991    Ch. 80, Schd. VII
91-163   8-20-1991   Ch. 79, Schd. II
91-164   9-3-1991    35.030
91-165   10-1-1991   35.030
91-166   11-12-1991  111.007
91-167   11-12-1991  71.004
91-169   11-26-1991  151.192
91-170   11-26-1991  35.030;
                     35.999
92-171   1-7-1992    TSO Table VII
92-173   2-4-1992    TSO Table VII
92-176   4-28-1992   74.003
                     Ch. 80, Schd. I,
92-177   4-28-1992   III,
                     X
92-178   4-28-1992   TSO Table VII
                     33.156;
92-179   4-28-1992   33.158;
                     33.160
92-180   5-12-1992   33.158
92-181   5-26-1992   TSO Table VIII
92-184   - -1992     158.008;
                     158.046
92-185   8-4-1992    Ch. 79, Schd. II
92-186   8-18-1992   74.006
92-187   8-18-1992   TSO Table IV
92-189   9-1-1992    Ch. 79, Schd. II
92-190   9-15-1992   71.007;
                     71.999
92-191   9-15-1992   71.008;
                     71.999
92-192   9-29-1992   Ch. 79, Schd. II
92-193   10-13-1992  74.006
92-198   12-8-1992   Ch. 79, Schd. II
92-199   12-8-1992   158.052
92-200   12-22-1992  TSO Table VI
92-201   12-22-1992  TSO Table VI
92-202   12-22-1992  TSO Table VI
93-203   3-30-1993   Ch. 79, Schd. II
93-205   4-13-1993   111.007
93-206   4-13-1993   Ch. 79, Schd. II
93-207   4-13-1993   TSO Table VII
93-207   4-27-1993   31.180—
                     31.183
93-208   5-11-1993   TSO Table VIII
93-209   5-11-1993   TSO Table VIII
93-210   5-25-1993   111.007
93-211   5-25-1993   50.044
93-215   7-20-1993   37.020
                     110.018;
93-216   7-20-1993   120.049;
                     120.999
                     151.210—
93-217   8-3-1993    151.223;
                     151.999
93-218   8-3-1993    35.025—
                     35.027
93-219   8-3-1993    71.004
93-221   8-3-1993    35.032;
                     35.999
93-223   9-7-1993    TSO Table IV
93-225   9-7-1993    158.143
93-226   9-7-1993    TSO Table II
93-227   9-21-1993   31.002
93-228   10-5-1993   35.025—
                     35.027
93-230   11-16-1993  TSO Table IV
93-231   11-16-1993  151.217;
                     151.218
93-233   11-16-1993  TSO Table VII
                     131.001—
93-234   12-7-1993   131.008;
                     131.999
93-235   12-7-1993   Ch. 79, Schd. II
94-236   1-25-1994   TSO Table VIII
94-237   1-25-1994   114.240—
                     114.247
94-238   1-25-1994   TSO Table II
94-239   3-1-1994    33.041
94-240   3-16-1994   TSO Table VIII
94-241   3-16-1994   35.033
94-242   3-16-1994   111.007
94-243   3-16-1994   TSO Table IV
94-247   4-19-1994   TSO Table VII
94-248   4-19-1994   31.003
94-249   4-19-1994   TSO Table VII
94-252   5-3-1994    TSO Table VII
94-253   5-3-1994    TSO Table VII
94-254   5-17-1994   31.003
94-256   6-7-1994    TSO Table VII
94-260   8-2-1994    TSO Table VII
94-261   9-6-1994    TSO Table VII
94-262   9-20-1994   TSO Table VIII
94-263   9-20-1994   31.026
94-264   10-4-1994   TSO Table VII
94-266   10-4-1994   35.009
94-267   10-18-1994  50.060—
                     50.072
94-268   10-18-1994  TSO Table VIII
94-269   11-1-1994   151.075
95-272   4-5-1995    TSO Table IV
95-273   4-5-1995    TSO Table IV
95-274   4-5-1995    TSO Table III
95-275   4-5-1995    TSO Table II
95-276   4-5-1995    Ch. 79, Schd. II
95-278   6-6-1995    30.026
95-279   6-6-1995    TSO Table III
95-280   6-6-1995    TSO Table VIII
95-281   6-6-1995    TSO Table VII
95-282   6-20-1995   TSO Table VII
95-284   7-5-1995    32.065;
                     32.066
95-286   7-18-1995   TSO Table II
95-287   8-1-1995    Ch. 79, Schd. II
95-288   8-1-1995    30.004
95-289   8-15-1995   TSO Table I
95-290   9-5-1995    TSO Table VII
95-291   10-3-1995   TSO Table II
95-293   12-19-1995  51.001;
                     51.003
96-293   4-2-1996    TSO Table VIII
96-294   4-2-1996    TSO Table VIII
96-296   5-7-1996    TSO Table II
96-297   5-7-1996    TSO Table II
96-298   5-7-1996    TSO Table II
96-299   5-7-1996    Ch. 79, Schd. II
96-300   6-4-1996    TSO Table VIII
96-302   6-18-1996   Ch. 80, Schd. V
96-304   6-18-1996   74.002
96-307   8-20-1996   30.024
96-308   9-3-1996    110.018
97-314   1-21-1997   91.002
97-315   - -1997     32.008
97-316   2-18-1997   TSO Table VIII
97-318   4-2-1997    Ch. 79, Schd. II
97-319   4-15-1997   33.047
97-324   5-19-1997   31.160—
                     31.169
97-325   5-19-1997   31.027
97-329   7-7-1997    71.004
97-332   7-7-1997    32.200
97-335   7-17-1997   TSO Table VII
97-337   7-21-1997   31.003
97-338   7-21-1997   31.003
97-339   7-21-1997   151.043;
                     151.999
97-340   8-4-1997    31.025
97-341   9-15-1997   33.041;
                     33.043
97-342   9-22-1997   TSO Table V
97-343   9-22-1997   TSO Table IV
97-344   9-22-1997   Ch. 80, Schd. I
97-345   10-6-1997   34.003
97-346A  10-6-1997   32.215—
                     32.224
97-347   10-6-1997   Ch. 79, Schd. II
97-346   10-20-1997  34.003
97-350   12-1-1997   31.002
                     124.001—
97-351   12-15-1997  124.007;
                     124.999
97-352   12-15-1997  95.015;
                     95.999
98-353   1-20-1998   Ch. 79, Schd. II
98-355   1-20-1998   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
98-356   1-20-1998   Ch. 79, Schd. IV
98-357   2-3-1998    TSO Table VIII
98-359   2-17-1998   TSO Table VIII
98-362   4-6-1998    31.003
98-363   4-9-1998    35.006
98-365   4-20-1998   30.026
98-366   4-20-1998   TSO Table VIII
98-367   4-20-1998   TSO Table VIII
98-368   5-4-1998    Ch. 80, Schd. I
98-369   5-4-1998    Ch. 79, Schd. II
98-370   5-4-1998    TSO Table VII
98-371   6-1-1998    110.018
                     136.030—
98-372   6-1-1998    136.036;
                     136.999
98-373   6-1-1998    32.086
98371    6-1-1998    111.005
98-376   7-6-1998    Ch. 79, Schd. II
98-379   9-8-1998    110.018;
                     111.005
98-384   10-5-1998   TSO Table IV
98-387   10-5-1998   30.026
98-388   11-16-1998  TSO Table VII
98-391   12-7-1998   31.002
98-392   12-21-1998  TSO Table VII
98-393   12-21-1998  TSO Table VII
99-100   1-4-1999    30.004
99-101   1-4-1999    TSO Table VIII
99-102   1-4-1999    30.005
99-103   1-4-1999    30.026
99-104   3-1-1999    TSO Table VIII
99-106   4-19-1999   TSO Table VIII
99-107   4-19-1999   33.041
99-110   6-21-1999   34.002
                     122.001—
                     122.023;
                     122.035—
                     122.040;
99-111   6-21-1999   122.055—
                     122.067;
                     122.080—
                     122.087;
                     122.999
99-113   7-6-1999    158.142;
                     158.145
99-114   7-19-1999   Ch. 79, Schd. II
99-115   7-19-1999   Ch. 79, Schd. II
99-117   7-20-1999   35.033
99-118   8-2-1999    TSO Table VII
99-119   - -1999     TSO Table VI
99-120   9-7-1999    31.003
99-121   9-7-1999    33.108
99-122   9-20-1999   30.005
99-123   9-20-1999   30.026
99-124   9-20-1999   30.026
99-125   10-18-1999  Ch. 79, Schd. II
                     116.001—
99-126   10-18-1999  116.010;
                     116.999
99-127   10-18-1999  116.025—
                     116.033
99-129   11-1-1999   71.003
99-131   11-1-1999   TSO Table VI
99-132   11-1-1999   110.018
99-133   12-6-1999   35.070—
                     35.086
00-135   1-3-2000    Ch. 79, Schd. II
                     114.090—
00-136   1-3-2000    114.101;
                     114.999
00-137   1-3-2000    110.018
00-138   1-18-2000   32.067
00-139   1-18-2000   32.066
00-140   2-7-2000    Ch. 80, Schd. II
00-141   4-3-2000    TSO Table VIII
00-142   4-17-2000   153.001
00-143   4-17-2000   TSO Table I
00-144   5-15-2000   Ch. 79, Schd. II
00-146   6-5-2000    153.024
00-147   7-3-2000    Ch. 79, Schd. II
00-150   7-17-2000   TSO Table IV
00-151   8-7-2000    TSO Table VII
                     30.003;
00-153   10-2-2000   30.021;
                     31.022
00-158   - -2000     TSO Table VI
01-162   1-16-2001   158.069;
                     158.121
01-164   1-16-2001   TSO Table III
01-165   3-19-2001   TSO Table VIII
01-166   3-19-2001   TSO Table VIII
01-167   5-21-2001   TSO Table VII
00-160   7-16-2001   TSO Table VI
01-169   9-4-2001    TSO Table VII
01-170   9-4-2001    TSO Table VII
01-171   9-17-2001   Ch. 79, Schd. II
01-172   9-17-2001   TSO Table VIII
01-174   11-5-2001   TSO Table IV
01-175   11-5-2001   TSO Table IV
01-176   11-5-2001   TSO Table VIII
01-177   11-19-2001  35.033
02-178   3-4-2002    TSO Table VIII
02-179   3-4-2002    TSO Table VII
02-180   4-1-2002    TSO Table VIII
02-181   4-15-2002   31.003
02-182   4-15-2002   31.003
02-183   5-6-2002    Ch. 79, Schd. II
02-184   5-6-2002    Ch. 79, Schd. II
01-190   7-23-2002   71.003
02-186   7-23-2002   32.235—
                     32.237
02-188   7-23-2002   31.025
                     110.004;
02-189   7-23-2002   110.008;
                     110.010;
                     110.011
02-192   9-16-2002   TSO Table VII
02-193   9-16-2002   TSO Table VII
02-194   10-7-2002   TSO Table VII
03-202   1-21-2003   34.001
03-203   2-18-2003   TSO Table VIII
03-204   3-3-2003    Ch. 79, Schd. II
03-205   3-3-2003    158.004
03-208   4-21-2003   110.018
03-211   4-21-2003   31.026
03-212   4-21-2003   31.025
03-213   4-21-2003   31.140—
                     31.145
                     110.004;
03-214   4-21-2003   110.008—
                     110.011
03-215   4-21-2003   71.003
03-216   4-21-2003   151.239;
                     151.240
03-217   4-21-2003   50.041
03-218   4-21-2003   35.005
                     114.020—
03-219   4-21-2003   114.022;
                     114.999
03-220   5-19-2003   Ch. 80, Schd. I
03-223   6-2-2003    114.020
03-322   6-2-2003    TSO Table VII
03-226   8-7-2003    TSO Table VII
03-228   9-2-2003    TSO Table VII
03-229   9-2-2003    TSO Table VII
03-230   9-30-2003   TSO Table VIII
03-231   9-30-2003   TSO Table VIII
03-232   10-6-2003   Ch. 80, Schd. II
03-233   10-6-2003   Ch. 79, Schd. II
03-234   11-17-2003  TSO Table VII
03-236   12-15-2003  TSO Table II
04-238   1-5-2004    35.033
04-239   1-20-2004   TSO Table VIII
04-241   4-5-2004    35.033
04-242   4-5-2004    Ch. 80, Schd. II
04-243   4-5-2004    Ch. 80, Schd. II
04-244   4-5-2004    Ch. 80, Schd. I
04-245   4-5-2004    Ch. 80, Schd. II
04-246   4-5-2004    TSO Table VII
04-248   4-19-2004   35.005
04-249   4-19-2004   TSO Table VII
04-251   5-3-2004    TSO Table IV
04-252   5-3-2004    Ch. 80, Schd. II
04-253   5-3-2004    TSO Table VII
04-255   5-17-2004   32.052
                     135.015—
04-256   6-7-2004    135.027;
                     135.999
04-261   7-6-2004    TSO Table VII
04-265   7-19-2004   Ch. 80, Schd. I
04-267   7-19-2004   33.185—
                     33.200
04-268   8-16-2004   Ch. 79, Schd. II
04-269   9-20-2004   TSO Table VII
04-270   9-20-2004   Ch. 80, Schd. II
04-271   10-4-2004   TSO Table IV
                     97.001—
04-272   10-18-2004  97.015;
                     97.999
04-273   10-18-2004  32.050
04-274   11-1-2004   TSO Table IV
                     90.025—
04-276   11-5-2004   90.031;
                     90.999
05-280   1-3-2005    35.045—
                     35.056
05-281   2-7-2005    TSO Table VII
05-282   3-7-2005    32.120—
                     32.131
05-283   3-7-2005    TSO Table VIII
05-284   3-7-2005    TSO Table VII
05-285   3-22-2005   TSO Table VII
05-286   5-2-2005    TSO Table VIII
05-287   5-16-2005   TSO Table I
05-288   5-16-2005   33.109
05-289   6-6-2005    TSO Table VIII
05-290   6-6-2005    158.069
05-292   6-6-2005    TSO Table IV
05-293   6-6-2005    TSO Table IV
05-294   6-6-2005    TSO Table IV
                     75.040—
05-295   6-23-2005   75.043;
                     75.999
05-299   8-15-2005   TSO Table IV
05-300   8-15-2005   Ch. 80, Schd. II
05-031   9-6-2005    131.002;
                     131.999
05-302   9-19-2005   158.008
05-303   9-19-2005   TSO Table IV
05-304   10-3-2005   158.008
05-306   10-3-2005   TSO Table VII
05-307   10-17-2005  50.060—
                     50.072
05-308   10-17-2005  Ch. 80, Schd. II
05-309   10-17-2005  Ch. 80, Schd. II
05-310   10-17-2005  75.040
05-311   11-7-2005   Ch. 80, Schd. II
05-312   11-7-2005   TSO Table IV
05-313   11-7-2005   Ch. 80, Schd. II
05-314   11-7-2005   Ch. 80, Schd. II
05-316   11-21-2005  70.006
05-317   11-21-2005  135.015;
                     135.999
05-319   11-21-2005  75.020;
                     75.023
05-320   11-21-2005  70.008
05-321   11-21-2005  TSO Table VII
05-322   11-21-2005  TSO Table VII
05-323   11-21-2005  TSO Table VII
05-324   12-5-2005   TSO Table VII
05-326   12-19-2005  158.006
05-327   12-19-2005  TSO Table II
05-330   12-19-2005  158.069
06-331   1-31-2006   TSO Table VII
06-332   1-31-2006   TSO Table VII
06-333   2-6-2006    TSO Table VII
                     151.115—
06-334   2-6-2006    151.125;
                     151.999
06-335   4-3-2006    Ch. 79, Schd. II
06-336   4-3-2006    Ch. 80, Schd. II
06-337   4-3-2006    Ch. 80, Schd. II
06-338   4-3-2006    33.085
                     31.120—
06-340   5-1-2006    31.129;
                     31.999
                     37.035—
06-341   5-15-2006   37.039;
                     37.999
                     112.001—
                     112.007;
                     112.020—
                     112.027;
06-342   5-15-2006   112.040—
                     112.051;
                     112.065—
                     112.067;
                     112.999
06-343   5-15-2006   151.004
06-344   5-15-2006   Ch. 79, Schd. II
06-347   6-19-2006   TSO Table VII
06-348   6-19-2006   TSO Table VII
06-349   6-19-2006   Ch. 79, Schd. II
06-362   7-17-2006   95.015;
                     95.999
06-363   7-17-2006   TSO Table VI
06-367   8-7-2006    10.030—
                     10.043
06-372   9-5-2006    TSO Table VII
06-373   9-18-2006   TSO Table VII
06-374   9-18-2006   TSO Table II
06-375   9-18-2006   Ch. 79, Schd. II
06-381   12-4-2006   158.069
06-383   12-4-2006   TSO Table II
07-385   3-5-2007    50.027;
                     50.999
                     91.025—
07-387   3-19-2007   91.037;
                     91.999
07-388   3-26-2007   158.051
07-390   4-2-2007    TSO Table IV
07-391   4-2-2007    TSO Table VII
07-392   4-16-2007   151.124
07-393   4-16-2007   151.157;
                     151.999
07-394   4-16-2007   151.999
07-395   4-16-2007   158.008
07-396   4-16-2007   TSO Table II
                     115.001—
07-397   5-7-2007    115.010;
                     115.999
07-400   5-7-2007    153.004;
                     153.999
07-401   5-21-2007   TSO Table VII
07-404   7-2-2007    TSO Table IV
07-408   8-6-2007    158.086
                     50.044;
                     51.003;
                     117.006;
07-410   8-6-2007    151.038;
                     151.078;
                     151.124;
                     151.237
07-411   8-6-2007    110.018
07-412   9-4-2007    TSO Table VI
07-413   9-4-2007    Ch. 80, Schd. II
07-414   9-4-2007    Ch. 80, Schd. II
07-415   9-4-2007    Ch. 79, Schd. II
07-416   9-17-2007   10.999
                     122.999;
07-417   10-1-2007   123.003—
                     123.009;
                     123.999
                     136.015—
07-419   10-15-2007  136.017;
                     136.999
07-421   11-5-2007   37.005
07-422   11-5-2007   32.250—
                     32.258
                     153.060—
07-423   11-5-2007   153.081;
                     153.999
                     120.020—
07-425   11-19-2007  120.026;
                     120.999
07-427   12-17-2007  Ch. 80, Schd. II
08-429   1-22-2008   122.999
08-430   2-19-2008   TSO Table II
08-431   4-7-2008    Ch. 80, Schd. II
08-432   4-7-2008    51.008;
                     51.999
08-433   4-7-2008    TSO Table VIII
08-434   5-5-2008    Ch. 79, Schd. II
                     111.035;
08-435   5-5-2008    111.036;
                     111.999
08-436   6-16-2008   72.008
08-437   7-21-2008   TSO Table II
08-438   - -2008     156.001
08-441   9-2-2008    TSO Table VII
08-443   9-2-2008    34.001
08-446   9-15-2008   34.001
08-447   9-15-2008   Ch. 80, Schd. II
08-448   10-6-2008   Ch. 80, Schd. II
08-449   10-6-2008   Ch. 80, Schd. II
08-450   10-6-2008   34.001
08-451   10-20-2008  31.026
08-453   10-20-2008  31.060
08-452   10-30-2008  TSO Table VII
08-454   10-30-2008  TSO Table II
08-455   10-30-2008  TSO Table III
08-456   11-3-2008   Ch. 80, Schd. II
08-457   11-17-2008  Ch. 80, Schd. II
08-458   12-15-2008  35.030
09-463   1-5-2009    Ch. 80, Schd. II
09-465   3-2-2009    Ch. 80, Schd. II
09-466   3-2-2009    33.118
09-467   3-2-2009    110.018
09-468   3-2-2009    112.007;
                     112.999
09-469   5-18-2009   Ch. 80, Schd. II
09-470   6-1-2009    Ch. 80, Schd. II
                     134.015—
09-471   6-15-2009   134.019;
                     134.999
09-472   6-15-2009   72.009;
                     72.999
09-473   6-15-2009   Ch. 79, Schd. II
09-474   6-15-2009   Ch. 79, Schd. II
09-477   9-8-2009    31.003
09-478   9-8-2009    31.003
09-480   9-8-2009    50.092
09-484   9-21-2009   92.001
09-485   11-2-2009   151.999
09-486   11-2-2009   TSO Table VII
09-487   11-2-2009   TSO Table VII
09-488   11-2-2009   TSO Table VII
09-489   11-2-2009   TSO Table II
09-490   11-16-2009  Ch. 80, Schd. II
09-491   11-16-2009  Ch. 80, Schd. II
09-492   1-4-2010    33.109
10-494   1-19-2010   Ch. 80, Schd. II
10-495   3-15-2010   TSO Table III
10-496   4-19-2010   Ch. 80, Schd. II
10-497   4-19-2010   31.003
10-498   5-3-2010    Ch. 80, Schd. II
10-500   6-7-2010    TSO Table VII
10-501   6-21-2010   50.028
10-502   6-21-2010   74.002
10-504   8-2-2010    34.004
10-507   9-7-2010    Ch. 80, Schd. II
10-509   10-4-2010   TSO Table IV
10-511   11-1-2010   111.015
10-512   11-1-2010   TSO Table VII
10-514   12-6-2010   TSO Table VII
10-516   12-20-2010  Ch. 80, Schd. II
11-517   2-14-2011   35.030
11-518   3-7-2011    32.050
11-519   3-7-2011    33.041
11-520   3-7-2011    TSO Table VIII
15-030   3-21-2011   31.105—
                     31.107
11-533   5-2-2011    Ch. 80, Schd. II
11-534   6-28-2011   TSO Table VIII
00-147   7-3-2011    78.003
11-537   9-6-2011    TSO Table VIII
11-538   9-19-2011   TSO Table VII
11-539   10-3-2011   Ch. 80, Schd. II
11-540   11-7-2011   35.033
11-545   12-5-2011   114.022
11-546   12-5-2011   TSO Table VII
11-547   12-5-2011   TSO Table VII
11-548   12-19-2011  95.033
12-549   1-17-2012   35.033;
                     35.999
12-550   1-17-2012   35.034
12-554   3-19-2012   Ch. 80, Schd. II
12-555   4-2-2012    Ch. 80, Schd. II
12-556   4-2-2012    Ch. 80, Schd. II
12-553   4-16-2012   TSO Table VII
12-557   5-7-2012    TSO Table VII
12-560   5-21-2012   35.004
12-558   6-18-2012   TSO Table VI
12-562   7-16-2012   TSO Table IV
12-564   7-16-2012   Ch. 80, Schd. II
12-565   7-16-2012   75.023
                     110.018;
                     111.017;
12-566   9-4-2012    112.100—
                     112.111;
                     132.006
12-567   9-4-2012    151.003;
                     151.999
12-568   9-4-2012    71.004
12-569   9-4-2012    51.003
12-570   9-4-2012    TSO Table VII
12-571   9-4-2012    TSO Table VII
12-572   9-4-2012    33.051
12-573   9-17-2012   71.004
12-574   9-17-2012   Ch. 80, Schd. II
12-575   9-17-2012   Ch. 80, Schd. II
12-576   9-17-2012   Ch. 80, Schd. II
12-577   9-17-2012   Ch. 80, Schd. II
12-578   10-1-2012   TSO Table VII
12-579   10-15-2012  Ch. 80, Schd. II
12-780   11-5-2012   Ch. 80, Schd. II
12-781   11-19-2012  TSO Table VII
12-782   11-19-2012  33.130—
                     33.142
12-783   12-3-2012   32.160
                     111.015;
12-785   12-17-2012  111.019—
                     111.021
13-001   4-15-2013   30.004
13-003   6-17-2013   35.025;
                     35.026
13-005   6-17-2013   33.170
13-010   7-18-2013   135.004;
                     135.999
13-018   8-19-2013   Ch. 80, Schd. II
13-020   9-3-2013    10.999
13-021   10-21-2013  75.055
13-022   11-4-2013   71.005
13-026   12-2-2013   TSO Table VIII
13-029   12-16-2013  37.004
14-001   2-3-2014    151.121
14-003   3-3-2014    72.008
                     111.004;
                     111.005;
14-005   4-7-2014    111.007;
                     111.013;
                     111.017
14-007   5-5-2014    136.001;
                     136.999
14-008   5-5-2014    122.999
14-009   5-5-2014    35.010
14-010   5-5-2014    TSO Table VII
14-011   5-5-2014    TSO Table VIII
14-012   5-19-2014   TSO Table VIII
14-013   6-2-2014    50.043;
                     50.044
14-014   6-2-2014    71.002;
                     71.004
14-015   6-2-2014    120.008
14-018   6-16-2014   Ch. 80, Schd. II
14-019   6-16-2014   Ch. 80, Schd. II
14-020   6-16-2014   Ch. 80, Schd. II
14-021   6-16-2014   Ch. 80, Schd. II
14-025   10-6-2014   TSO Table VIII
14-027   11-3-2014   70.040—
                     70.053
14-028   11-3-2014   Ch. 80, Schd. II
14-029   11-3-2014   Ch. 80, Schd. II
14-030   12-1-2014   TSO Table VIII
14-031   12-1-2014   TSO Table VI
15-001   1-5-2015    134.001;
                     134.999
15-006   3-2-2015    TSO Table VII
15-007   3-2-2015    TSO Table VII
15-009   5-4-2015    TSO Table VIII
15-011   5-4-2015    30.004
15-012   5-4-2015    111.007
15-015   5-4-2015    33.052
15-019   6-1-2015    TSO Table VII
15-020   6-1-2015    33.118
15-021   6-1-2015    51.999
15-023   7-6-2015    112.080—
                     112.085
15-024   7-6-2015    110.018
15-025   7-6-2015    10.034
15-027   7-6-2015    114.060;
                     114.999
15-028   7-6-2015    Ch. 80, Schd. II
15-038   7-24-2015   151.001;
                     151.999
                     114.001—
15-032   8-3-2015    114.005;
                     114.999
15-033   8-3-2015    Ch. 80, Schd. II
15-034   9-8-2015    30.024
15-035   9-8-2015    TSO Table II
15-037   9-8-2015    131.999
15-040   10-5-2015   TSO Table VII
15-045   11-2-2015   TSO Table VII
15-046   11-2-2015   35.030
                     132.020—
15-047   11-2-2015   132.022;
                     132.999
                     152.001—
15-048   11-2-2015   152.006;
                     152.999
15-049   11-2-2015   33.052
15-050   11-16-2015  TSO Table VI
16-001   1-4-2016    Ch. 80, Schd. II
16-002   2-1-2016    TSO Table VI;
                     Table VIII
16-003   - -2016     TSO Table VII
16-004   3-7-2016    TSO Table VII
                     110.018;
16-005   3-7-2016    114.035—
                     114.042;
                     114.999
16-006   3-7-2016    50.024;
                     50.999
16-011   3-21-2016   36.027;
                     36.028
16-012   5-2-2016    TSO Table III
16-013   5-2-2016    75.022
                     75.056;
16-014   5-2-2016    75.057;
                     75.999
16-015   6-6-2016    30.004
16-017   8-1-2016    TSO Table VI
16-018   8-1-2016    TSO Table VIII
16-019   8-1-2016    30.026
16-021   9-6-2016    Ch. 80, Schd. II
16-022   10-3-2016   Ch. 80, Schd. II
                     114.260—
16-023   11-7-2016   114.263;
                     114.999
16-025   12-5-2016   TSO Table VIII
17-001   1-3-2017    Ch. 80, Schd. II
17-002   2-6-2017    Ch. 80, Schd. II
17-003   3-20-2017   37.007
17-005   4-3-2017    71.004
17-006   4-3-2017    35.033;
                     124.003
17-009   4-17-2017   Ch. 80, Schd. II
17-014   5-15-2017   35.004
17-019   7-21-2017   95.015
17-022   8-3-2017    95.015
17-023   8-3-2017    35.036
17-024   8-3-2017    50.092
17-027   8-21-2017   50.092
17-028   8-21-2017   10.999
17-029   8-21-2017   50.044
17-032   9-5-2017    Ch. 80, Schd. II
17-034   10-2-2017   110.018;
                     112.083
17-035   10-2-2017   74.004
17-043   11-6-2017   Ch. 80, Schd. II
17-048   11-30-2017  37.050—
                     37.052
2018-001 4-2-2018    151.255—
                     151.269
18-002   5-7-2018    31.001
18-005   5-7-2018    33.170
18-006   5-7-2018    Ch. 80, Schd. II
18-007   8-6-2018    50.049
18-011   8-6-2018    160.001—
                     160.023
18-013   11-5-2018   TSO Table II
18-014   12-3-2018   34.005
18-015   12-3-2018   10.999
18-016   12-3-2018   Ch. 79, Schd. II
18-017   12-3-2018   Ch. 80, Schd. II
19-001   1-7-2019    10.034
19-003   3-4-2019    50.042
19-002   4-1-2019    114.039;
                     114.999
19-008   4-15-2019   TSO Table VIII
19-009   5-6-2019    30.004
19-010   5-6-2019    30.024
19-011   5-6-2019    30.026
19-012   5-9-2019    111.007
19-015   7-15-2019   TSO Table VII
19-016   7-15-2019   Ch. 80, Schd. II
19-018   11-4-2019   111.013
19-021   12-2-2019   35.035
19-022   12-2-2019   111.012
20-001   1-6-2020    Ch. 80, Schd. II
                     125.001—
20-003   3-2-2020    125.006;
                     125.020—
                     125.032
20-004   3-2-2020    112.106
20-005   3-2-2020    51.003
20-006   3-2-2020    30.026
21-005   8-2-2021    95.999
21-010   8-23-2021   TSO Table VI
21-009   9-2-2021    31.195—
                     31.197
21-007   10-4-2021   151.005
21-018   10-4-2021   30.026
21-021   10-31-2021  35.037;
                     35.999
21-028   11-5-2021   TSO Table VIII
22-007   11-7-2022   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
                     110.030—
22-008   11-7-2022   110.044;
                     110.999
22-009   11-14-2022  TSO Table IX
22-006   12-5-2022   TSO Table VIII
22-010   12-14-2022  34.008
23-002   4-24-2023   37.006
23-003   5-1-2023    Ch. 79, Schd. VI
                     90.001—
23-004   5-1-2023    90.011;
                     90.999
23-008   7-17-2023   10.999;
                     95.999
23-009   8-7-2023    95.999
23-010   8-7-2023    151.038
24-001   1-24-2024   31.210
24-003   1-24-2024   35.011
24-005   5- -2024    30.006
24-006   6-3-2024    TSO Table VIII
24-006   8-5-2024    34.008
24-008   8-8-2024    30.006
2024-010 9-12-2024   34.007
2024-011 9-12-2024   34.006
2024-12  9-12-2024   31.008
24-014   10-7-2024   31.001
24-015   11-6-2024   31.198
2024-016 11-6-2024   90.999
25-003   7-1-2025    TSO Table IV
25-004   7-1-2025    TSO Table IV
25-007   8-4-2025    35.038
25-009   9-2-2025    50.040
2025-010 9-2-2025    35.025;
                     35.026
25-005   10-6-2025   32.180—
                     32.185
                    
 
 
