EDINBURG, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 910, passed 11-12-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
1.    EDINBURG VILLAGE CODE
      
2.    SAVING CLAUSE
      
3.    DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
      
4.    GENERAL PENALTY
      
5.    OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
      
6.    VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
7.    MAYOR
      
8.    VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
         
8A.    VILLAGE CLERK
         
8B.    FINANCE DEPARTMENT; VILLAGE TREASURER
         
8C.    VILLAGE ATTORNEY
         
8D.    GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT
         
8E.    VILLAGE ADVISORY ENGINEER
      
9.    ETHICS
      
10.    VILLAGE RECORDS
CHAPTER 1: EDINBURG VILLAGE CODE
Section
   
1-1-1   Title
   
1-1-2   Contents Of Code; Authority
   
1-1-3   Acceptance
   
1-1-4   Amendments
   
1-1-5   Jurisdiction
   
1-1-6   Code Alterations
§ 1-1-1 TITLE.
   A.   Upon the adoption by the village president and board of trustees, this
code is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official
village code of Edinburg. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as
the “Edinburg Village Code” and is hereby published by authority of the village
board of trustees and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the village as provided in § 1-1-4. Any reference to the number
of any section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of
the same number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general
penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when
reference is made to this code by title in any legal documents.
(2008 Code)
   B.   Whenever a reference is made to this code as the “Edinburg Village
Code” or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the village, the
reference shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore,
now, or hereafter made.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-6)
§ 1-1-2 CONTENTS OF CODE; AUTHORITY.
   This code consists of all the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of
the administrative ordinances of the village, codified pursuant to the law.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 1-1-3 ACCEPTANCE.
   The village code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
1-2-1.
(2008 Code)
§ 1-1-4 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the village code shall set forth the title, chapter
and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code.
(2008 Code)
§ 1-1-5 JURISDICTION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, this code applies to acts performed within
the corporate limits of the village. Provisions of this code also apply to acts
performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by law,
where the law confers power on the village to regulate such particular acts
outside the corporate limits.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-8)
§ 1-1-6 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   A.   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way, any section or any page of this code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the village board. The village clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the
village clerk.
   B.   Any person having in his or her custody an official copy of this code
shall make every effort to maintain said code in an up-to-date and efficient
manner. He or she shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered to him or her or made available to him or her
through the office of the village clerk. Said code books, while in actual
possession of officials and other interest persons, shall be and remain the
property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the clerk upon
termination of office or separation of duties; provided, however village
presidents and board members may purchase code books at one-half the cost
charged to the village.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2: SAVING CLAUSE
Section
   
1-2-1   Repeal Of General Ordinances
   
1-2-2   Municipal Tax Ordinances
   
1-2-3   Public Ways and Public Utility Ordinances
   
1-2-4   Court Proceedings
   
1-2-5   Severability Clause
   
1-2-6   Reference To Specific Ordinances
§ 1-2-1 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the village passed by the president and board of
trustees prior to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as
are included in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Prevailing wage rate ordinances;
   D.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   E.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   F.   Contract or agreement ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or agreement or the issuance of warrants;
   G.   Salary ordinances;
   H.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   I.   Improvement ordinances;
   J.   Bond ordinances;
   K.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   L.   Ordinances relating to the lease, transfer or acceptance of real estate
by or from the village;
   M.   Ordinances or contracts relating to utility service outside the village
limits; and
   N.   All special ordinances or orders of suspension.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-12) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-2-2 MUNICIPAL TAX ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances relating to the police tax, the municipal service occupation tax,
and the municipal retailers’ occupation tax shall remain in full force and
effect until such time as the same become effective as enacted in this code;
and such taxes and the levy therefor shall not be considered voided, invalid,
discharged, released, or annulled, or in anywise affected by this code until
the police tax, the municipal service occupation tax, and the municipal
retailers’ occupation tax, as enacted in this code, become fully effective; the
intention being that there shall never be any time that the village shall be
without the benefit of such taxes until and unless the village shall decide to
repeal or amend such ordinances following the adoption of this code.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-13)
Cross-reference:
   Police tax, see §
2-2-2
§ 1-2-3 PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by
virtue of §
1-2-1, excepting as this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or
ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-14)
§ 1-2-4 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   A.   Prior Acts. No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any tax, fine, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment so incurred, or any
right, claim, debt, obligation, or liability accrued, arising or incurred under
the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any claim arising under
the former ordinance or in any way whatever to affect any such offense or act
so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred,
or any right, claim, debt, obligation, or liability accrued, arising or
incurred before the new ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings
thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in force at the time of such
proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be
mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the
consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new
ordinance takes effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals. This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed
as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as
waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-15)
§ 1-2-5 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, provision or other
portion of this code, or the application thereof to any person, firm, entity or
corporation, or circumstances shall be adjudged by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such adjudication shall not
affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this code or its application to
persons, firms, entities, or corporations or circumstances other than those to
which it is held invalid.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-16)
§ 1-2-6 REFERENCE TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code shall not, in any manner, affect matters of
record which refer to, or are otherwise connected with, ordinances which are
therein specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included
within the code. Such reference shall be construed to apply to the
corresponding provisions contained within this code.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-9)
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
Section
   
1-3-1   General Rules Of Interpretation
   
1-3-2   General Definitions
   
1-3-3   Catchlines
§ 1-3-1 GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   A.   Liberal Construction. All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the president and village board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements. In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Official Time. Central Standard Time shall be the official time for the
transaction of the village business, except during applicable daylight saving
time set by national or state standards when the official time shall be
advanced one hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings
or other premises maintained by or at the expense of the village shall be set
and run at the official time prescribed by this subsection.
   D.   Computation Of Time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   E.   Delegation Of Authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   F.   Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   G.   Joint Authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   H.   May; Shall. The word MAY is permissive; the word SHALL is mandatory.
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   K.   Officers And Employees Generally. Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words “of the village of Edinburg.”
   L.   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   M.   Ordinance. The word ORDINANCE contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this code to “title,” “chapter,”
“section” and/or “subsection” or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
(1987 Code § 1-1-19) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-3-2 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. Unless otherwise indicated, the
village board of trustees of the village of Edinburg.
   CODE. The village code of the village of Edinburg.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The mayor and the village board of trustees.
   COUNTY. The county of Christian, state of Illinois.
   FEE. A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation, or a charge for services.
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village shall begin on May 1 and end on
the following April 30.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY. The holidays as authorized and recognized by the village
board.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession, occupation or thing.
   MAYOR. The village president or president of the village board of trustees.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a FELONY as defined by state law.
   MUNICIPAL YEAR. The municipal year shall commence on May 1 and shall end on
the following April 30. No appointments shall be made during the last month of
the MUNICIPAL YEAR in the year of a mayoral election.
   NEGLIGENT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLECT or NEGLIGENTLY. Imports a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent human ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the village.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any owner, part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, contract seller, contract
purchaser, or lessee of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, entity,
association, organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as
well as a natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, tangible personal property, effects, evidence of rights in action and
all written instruments by which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to
property is created, acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged
or diminished and every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer or customer.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE. The state of Illinois.
   STREET. Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies or has the right to occupy the whole or any part of such building or
land, whether alone or with others.
   VILLAGE. The village of Edinburg, county of Christian, state of Illinois.
   WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WILLFULLY. Applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to injure another
or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person’s proper mark.
(1987 Code, §§ 1-1-19, 1-2-27 and 1-2-28) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-3-3 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(2008 Code)
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
1-4-1   General Penalty
   
1-4-2   Prosecutor’s Fee
   
1-4-3   Application Of Provisions
   
1-4-4   Liability Of Officers
§ 1-4-1 GENERAL PENALTY.
   A.   1.   Any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of title 6 (Motor Vehicles and Traffic) of the village code shall be
assessed a fine or penalty in an amount of not less than $140 nor more than
$750 for each offense. Each day upon which a violation occurs or continues
shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A violation hereof may be established
by a preponderance of the evidence. A penalty imposed for each violation may
include, or consist of, a requirement that the defendant perform some
reasonable public community service work such as, but not limited to, the
picking up of litter in public parks or along public highways or the
maintenance of public facilities or performing services for a not-for-profit
charitable corporation or entity approved by the court.
      2.   Except as stated in subsection A.1. above, and except as otherwise
specifically stated elsewhere in the village code, any person found to have
been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of the village code shall
be assessed a fine or penalty in an amount of not less than $250 nor more than
$750 for each offense. Each day upon which a violation occurs or continues
shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A violation hereof may be established
by a preponderance of the evidence. A penalty imposed for each violation may
include, or consist of, a requirement that the defendant perform some
reasonable public community service work such as, but not limited to, the
picking up of litter in public parks or along public highways or the
maintenance of public facilities or performing services for a not-for-profit
charitable corporation or entity approved by the court.
   B.   If, by the terms of the ordinance or village code section, any act that
would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state is declared in the
village code to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed
six months. Such matters may be prosecuted as criminal offenses by the village
attorney in the circuit court by an information, or complaint sworn to,
charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to state
rules of criminal procedure. In such matters, conviction shall require the
village to establish guilt of the defendant beyond reasonable doubt.
   C.   No imprisonment authorized by 65 ILCS 5/1-2-9 for failure to pay any
fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six months for each offense.
   D.   1.   Notwithstanding anything in the village code to the contrary, and
pursuant to the State Supreme Court Rule 574, a defendant or offender
concerning any non-traffic/non-conservation ordinance (village code) violation
that is listed or identified on a form from time to time entitled “Municipal
Ordinance Violation Complaint and Notice to Appear” may be afforded the
opportunity to settle such ordinance (village code) violation and thereby avoid
a court appearance by admitting guilt and completing and signing the “Plea of
Guilty and Waiver” included within and set forth on said “Municipal Ordinance
Violation Complaint and Notice to Appear” and paying in full the applicable
fine in cash or by money order, certified or cashier’s check, or traveler’s
check to the village treasurer, all within 14 calendar days of the date said
“Municipal Ordinance Violation Complaint and Notice to Appear” was issued.
      2.   The aforesaid “Municipal Ordinance Violation Complaint and Notice to
Appear” form and the applicable listed or identified ordinance (village code)
violations thereon may be amended or revised, in whole or in part, from time to
time by approval of the village president.
(Ord. 811, passed 8-11-2014; Ord. 860, passed 3-11-2019; Ord. 884, passed 5-9-
2022)
§ 1-4-2 PROSECUTOR’S FEE.
   A.   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, the village shall be entitled to a $25
prosecution fee for each conviction for a violation of a village vehicle
ordinance (village code) or non-traffic ordinance (village code) which results
in a finding of guilt before a circuit or associate judge or in which a
defendant has stipulated to the facts supporting the charge or finding of guilt
and the court has entered an order of supervision. Such prosecutor’s fee shall
be taxed as costs to be collected from the defendant upon disposition of the
case. The village shall have a lien for such prosecution fees on all judgments
or fines procured by the village attorney from prosecutions for violations of
the state vehicle code and village vehicle ordinances (village code) or non-
traffic ordinances (village code).
   B.   A default in the payment of any fine or penalty or any installment of a
fine or penalty may be collected by any means authorized for the collection of
monetary judgments. The village attorney may retain attorneys and private
collection agents for the purposes of collecting any default in payment of any
fine or penalty or installment of that fine or penalty. Any fees or costs
incurred by the village with respect to attorneys or private collection agents
retained by the village attorney shall be charged to and paid by the offender
(i.e., the person who owed such fine or penalty or any installment of a fine or
penalty).
(Ord. 811, passed 8-11-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1
§ 1-4-3 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   A.   Application Of Penalty. The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code, the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections. In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions. Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for each breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 1-4-4 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village board to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
CHAPTER 5: OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-5-1   Ordinances; Resolutions; Motions
   
1-5-2   Corporate Seal
   
1-5-3   Elections
§ 1-5-1 ORDINANCES; RESOLUTIONS; MOTIONS.
   A.   Preparation Of Ordinances. It shall be the duty of the village attorney
to prepare such ordinances as may be required by the village board.
   B.   Passage Of Ordinances. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the
passage of all ordinances, and on all propositions to create any liability
against the village, or for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, and
all other cases at the request of any member and entered on the journal of its
proceeding, and the requisite concurrence vote to adopt and pass ordinances or
propositions shall be in accordance with applicable law.
   C.   Approval And Veto. All resolutions and motions that create any
liability against the village; that provide for the expenditure or
appropriation of village money; or to sell any village or school property, and
all ordinances passed by the village board of trustees shall be deposited with
the village clerk. Except as provided 65 ILCS 5/4-1-1 et seq. and 65 ILCS 5/5-
1-1 et seq., if the mayor approves an ordinance or resolution, the mayor shall
sign it. Those ordinances, resolutions and motions which the mayor disapproves
shall be returned to the village board of trustees, with the mayor’s written
objections, at the next regular meeting of said board occurring not less than
five days after their passage. The mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums
appropriated in any ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation
and, if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the mayor may disapprove
entirely of an ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation. If the
mayor fails to return any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with
his or her written objections within the designated time, it shall become
effective despite the absence of the mayor’s signature.
   D.   Reconsideration; Passing Over Veto. Every resolution and motion
specified in subsection C. above, and every ordinance that is returned to the
village board of trustees by the mayor shall be reconsidered by the village
board of trustees at the next regular meeting following the regular meeting at
which the village board of trustees receives the mayor’s written objection. If,
after reconsideration, two-thirds of all the trustees then holding office agree
at that regular meeting to pass an ordinance, resolution or motion,
notwithstanding the mayor’s refusal to approve it, then it shall be effective.
The vote on the question of passage over the mayor’s veto shall be by yeas and
nays and shall be recorded in the journal.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-15) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-5-2 CORPORATE SEAL.
   A.   Description. The corporate seal of the village shall be the same as
that heretofore provided and used by the village. The seal shall be circular in
form with the words “Corporate Seal Village of Edinburg” in the exterior
circle, and the words, “Incorporated May 5th, 1873 - Illinois” in the center
circle.
   B.   Use. The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases
provided for by law or by the ordinances of the village and in all other cases
in which, by law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the village to use a
seal.
   C.   Custodian. The seal shall be and remain with the village clerk who
shall be the legal custodian thereof.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-18)
§ 1-5-3 ELECTIONS.
   A.   Procedure. The provisions of 10 ILCS concerning municipal elections
shall govern the conduct of the village elections.
(1987 Code § 1-2-19) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Inauguration. The inauguration of newly elected village officials shall
occur at the first regular or special meeting of the village board in the month
of May following the consolidated election in April. (1987 Code § 1-2-19)
CHAPTER 6: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
1-6-1   Composition; Election And Term; General Powers
   
1-6-2   Meetings
   
1-6-3   Vacancies
   
1-6-4   Compensation
   
1-6-5   Committees
   
1-6-6   Rules Of Order And Procedure
   
1-6-7   Remote Meetings Rules
§ 1-6-1 COMPOSITION; ELECTION AND TERM; GENERAL POWERS.
   The village board shall consist of six trustees, elected in conformity with
this code and state law governing elections in villages, and shall have such
powers as are granted by 65 ILCS, as amended. The term of office shall be for
four years, or until their successors are elected and have qualified.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-6-2 MEETINGS.
   A.   Regular Meetings. The regular stated meeting of the village board shall
be held in the village hall building on the second Monday of each month at 7:00
p.m. When the meeting date falls upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be
held on the following Tuesday at the same hour and place, unless otherwise
designated. Adjourned meetings may be held at such times as may be determined
by the trustees.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-3)
   B.   Special Meetings. Special meetings of the village board may be called
by the mayor or any three trustees. Notice of special meetings shall be given
in accordance with 5 ILCS 120/2.02 or other applicable law.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Quorum. At all meetings of the village board, a majority of the
corporate authorities shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, and if no such quorum attends such meeting of the board, the trustees
may adjourn from day to day until a quorum is present, and shall have power to
compel the attendance of absent members, except when such members are
physically unable to attend such meetings.
   D.   Nonattendance At Meetings. Commencing with the terms of office to be
elected in 1985 and all future terms of office commencing after 1985, the
mayor, village clerk or any trustee who shall neglect or refuse to attend any
regular or special meeting without good and sufficient reason, to be passed
upon by the village board of trustees, shall not receive the designated
compensation for that meeting; provided, however, the mayor, village clerk and
trustees shall each be allowed two absences in each fiscal year for which
compensation shall be paid.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-9)
§ 1-6-3 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in office shall be filled in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-6-4 COMPENSATION.
   A.   Effective on and from and after the date of commencement of the term of
office for each trustee whose term of office commences with the first regular
or special meeting held in May 2009, and for each trustee whose term of office
commences with the first regular or special meeting held in May 2011, each such
trustee shall receive as salary the sum of $70 for each scheduled regular board
of trustees meeting, plus $55 for each scheduled special board of trustees
meeting, plus $25 for each committee meeting actually attended by such trustee
up to a maximum of one committee meeting per standing committee per month. No
amounts shall be paid to or received by such trustee for attendance at any
adjourned board of trustees meeting.
(Per correspondence dated 9-11-2008)
   B.   Each trustee shall be entitled to reimbursement for actual expenses
incurred by him or her in the performance of his or her duties.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-2) (Amd. per correspondence dated 9-11-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of absences from meetings on compensation, see §
1-6-2 D.
§ 1-6-5 COMMITTEES.
   A.   Standing Committees.
      1.   Established. The following standing committees of the village board
are hereby established:
         a.   Cable television;
         b.   Employee relations/finance;
         c.   Flood;
         d.   Gas;
         e.   Liquor;
         f.   Police;
         g.   Solid waste management;
         h.   Streets;
         i.   Wastewater; and
         j.   Water.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-6) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   Appointment. The committees shall be appointed annually by the
mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the village board of trustees.
      3.   Chairpersons. The mayor shall be ex officio chair of each and every
standing committee. The first named trustee of each committee shall be the
chair.
      4.   Reports.
         a.   So far as is practicable, reports of committees shall be in
writing.
         b.   As provided by law, any report of a committee of the village
board shall be deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting of
the same after the report is made, upon the request of any two trustees
present.
      5.   Duties. Each standing committee of the village board shall exercise
a general supervision over the affairs of the department of municipal
government with which it is connected; shall ascertain the condition and needs
of said department; shall, from time to time, report the same to the mayor and
village board so that a full understanding thereof may be had, and generally,
shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the department.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-6)
   B.   Special Committees. Special committees may be appointed by the mayor,
subject to the advice and consent of the trustees, as may be needed from time
to time.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-7)
§ 1-6-6 RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the village board.
   A.   Order Of Business.
      1.   The order of business shall be as follows:
         a.   Call to order by presiding officer;
         b.   Roll call;
         c.   The approval of and/or corrections to the minutes of the last
preceding meeting or meetings, and correction of the minutes of previous
meetings;
         d.   In accordance with a written agenda made available to the village
board three days prior to the meeting date; and
         e.   Adjournment.
      2.   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
by the presiding officer without debate, subject to appeal.
   B.   Duties Of Presiding Officer. The presiding officer shall preserve order
and decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other trustees,
and shall decide all questions of order, subject to appeal.
   C.   Duties Of Members.
      1.   While the presiding officer is putting the question, no member shall
walk across or out of the board chamber.
      2.   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall not proceed with his or her remarks until recognized
and named by the chair. He or she shall confine himself or herself to the
question under debate, avoiding personalities and refraining from impugning the
motives of any other trustee’s argument or vote.
   D.   Visitors. No person other than a member of the village board shall
address that body on the same question unless such person has been recognized
by the presiding officer. The following additional rules and notice shall
appear at the beginning or end (as determined by the village president from
time to time) of the respective agendas for all village board and committee
meetings:
“Per subparagraph (g) of 5 ILCS 120/2.06, this portion of the Village Board of
Trustee's (or Committee) meeting is reserved for any person wishing to address
the Village Board of Trustees (or Committee) on any relevant subject matters
concerning the Village. The Illinois Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.)
mandates NO action shall be taken on subject matters not listed on the agenda,
but the Village Board of trustees (or Committee) may direct staff to address
the topic or refer the subject matter to a future Village Board of Trustees
and/or Committee meeting, If anyone wishes to address the Village Board of
Trustees (or Committee) please provide your name and address, limit your
comments or presentation to three (3) minutes, and avoid repetitious comments.
Thank you.”
   E.   Debate.
      1.   The village board, by motion, may limit debate. The presiding
officer shall have the right to participate in debate.
      2.   While a member is speaking, no trustee shall hold any private
discussion nor pass between the speaker and the chair.
   F.   Call Of Trustees To Order. A trustee, when called to order by the
chair, shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat, and the
order or ruling of the chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to
the right of appeal.
   G.   Appeals From Decision Of Chair.
      1.   Any trustee may appeal to the board from a ruling of the chair, and
if the appeal is seconded, the trustee making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling, but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other person shall
participate in the discussion. The presiding officer shall have the right to
participate in the debate.
      2.   The chair shall then put the question, “Shall the decision of the
chair be sustained?” If the majority of the trustees vote “no,” the decision of
the chair shall be overruled, otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   H.   Question Of Personal Privilege. The right of a member to address the
board on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character, or motives are assailed, questioned or
impugned.
   I.   Seconding Of Motions Required; Written Motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the meeting or in committee unless it be seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and
every motion before the board, except motions of procedure, shall be reduced to
writing if requested by a member, and the proposer of the motion shall be
entitled to the floor.
   J.   Division Of Question. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the trustees, by a majority vote of the trustees
present, may divide such question.
   K.   Record Of Motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered
in the journal, the name of the trustee moving the same shall be entered also.
   L.   Motions To Adjourn.
      1.   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order, except:
         a.   When a trustee is in possession of the floor;
         b.   While the yeas and nays are being called;
         c.   When the members are voting;
         d.   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
         e.   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      2.   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
      3.   The village board may, at any time, adjourn meetings.
   M.   Reconsideration. Unless otherwise prohibited by law:
      1.   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration having been once made and decided per the negative shall not be
renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered; and
      2.   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by trustees who
voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received
a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of such motion, then, in such case, a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such
question to be reconsidered.
   N.   Robert’s Rules Of Order. The rules of parliamentary practice comprised
in the latest published edition of “Robert’s Rules Of Order Revised” shall
govern the board in all cases to which they are applicable and in which they
are not inconsistent with the special rules of the board.
   O.   Temporary Suspension Of Rules; Amendment Of Rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of the corporate authorities
entitled by law to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered or amended
unless by concurrence of two-thirds of all the corporate authorities entitled
by law to be elected.
   P.   Censure Or Expulsion Of Trustees. Any trustee acting or appearing in a
lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses opprobrious, obscene and insulting
language to or about any member of the board, or who does not obey the order of
the chair, shall be, on motion, censured by a majority vote of the members
present or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all trustees elected.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-12) (Amd. 2008 Code; Ord. 804, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 1-6-7 REMOTE MEETINGS RULES.
   A.   If a majority of a quorum of the members of the village board of
trustees or a majority of a quorum of the members of any village committee, as
the case may be, is physically present, then any member of the village board of
trustees may attend such regular or special village board of trustees meeting
or village board of trustees committee of the whole meeting, or any village
committee meeting by other means (i.e., by video or audio conference) if such
member is prevented from physically attending such meeting because of personal
illness or disability; employment purposes or the business of the village; a
family or other emergency; or unexpected childcare obligations.
   B.   If a member wishes to attend such a meeting by such other means, the
member must notify the village clerk before such meeting unless advanced notice
is impractical.
   C.   Subject to the requirements of the state open meetings act § 2.06,
being 5 ILCS 120/2.06, but notwithstanding any other provision of law, an open
or closed meeting subject to the state open meetings act may be conducted by
audio or video conference, without the physical presence of a quorum of the
members, so long as the conditions as set forth in 5 ILCS 120/7(e) are met.
(Ord. 897, passed 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 7: MAYOR
Section
   
1-7-1   Election; Term Of Office
   
1-7-2   Vacancy In Office
   
1-7-3   Powers And Duties
   
1-7-4   Compensation
   
1-7-5   Mayor Pro Tem; Temporary Chair; Administrative Official
§ 1-7-1 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until his or
her successor is elected and has qualified.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-35)
§ 1-7-2 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the mayor, it shall be filed in
accordance with 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-36) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-7-3 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   A.   Generally. The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the
village, shall preside over the meetings of the board, and shall perform such
duties as may be required of him or her by statute or law. He or she shall have
supervision over all of the executive officers and employees of the village and
shall have the power and authority to inspect, at any reasonable time, all
books and records pertaining to village affairs and kept by any officer or
employee of the village.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-37)
   B.   Presiding Officer; Deciding Vote.
      1.   The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the village board. He or
she shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion except:
         a.   Where the vote of the trustees has resulted in a tie;
         b.   Where one-half of the trustees elected has voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution or motion even though there is no tie vote; or
         c.   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by ILCS or by this code to adopt an ordinance, resolution or
motion.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-49)
      2.   In each instance specified, the mayor may vote. Nothing in this
subsection shall deprive an acting mayor or mayor pro tem from voting in his or
her capacity as trustee, but he or she shall not be entitled to another vote in
his or her capacity as acting mayor or mayor pro tem.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-49) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Administer Oaths. The mayor shall have the power to administer oaths or
affirmations for all lawful purposes.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-50)
   D.   Appoint Officers. At the first annual meeting in May, the mayor shall
appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the village board, all officers
of the village whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for, and
said officers shall hold their offices for the ensuing municipal year and until
their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring
in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner. The mayor shall
issue a commission or certificate of appointment to all persons appointed to
office in the village.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-38) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   E.   Removal Of Officers; Procedure. Except when otherwise provided by
statute, the mayor shall have the power to remove any officer appointed by him
or her on any written charge whenever he or she is of the opinion that the
interests of the village demand such removal. He or she shall report the
reasons for such removal to the board at a meeting to be held not less than
five days nor more than ten days after such removal. If the mayor shall fail or
refuse to report to the board the reasons for such removal, or if the board, by
a two-thirds vote of all its members authorized by law to be elected by yeas
and nays to be entered upon its record, disapproves of such removal, such
officer thereupon shall be restored to the office from which he or she was
removed, but he or she shall give a new bond and take a new oath of office. No
officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-39) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   F.   Designation Of Duties. Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective
duties or powers of any appointed officer of the village, this dispute shall be
settled by the mayor, after consultation with the village attorney; and the
mayor shall have the power to delegate to any appointive officer any duty which
is to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform that
duty, by and with the advice and consent of the village board.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-40)
   G.   Signature. The mayor shall sign all village warrants, commissions,
permits and licenses granted by authority of the board, except as otherwise
provided, and such other acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his or
her official signature.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-42)
   H.   Formal Occasions. The mayor shall act for and on behalf of the village
on formal occasions and receptions, but in his or her absence or inability to
attend any such function, the mayor may select any other village officer to so
act.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-43)
   I.   Duties Imposed By Statute. The mayor shall perform all the duties which
are prescribed by law and shall take care that the laws and ordinances are
faithfully executed.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-44)
   J.   Release Of Prisoners. The mayor may release any person imprisoned for
violation of any village ordinance and shall report the release, with reasons
therefor, to the trustees at their first meeting thereafter.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-45)
   K.   Issue And Revoke Business Licenses. The mayor shall issue and revoke
any and all business licenses as prescribed by law, with the advice and consent
of the village board.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-46) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   L.   Serve As Liquor Control Commissioner. The mayor is hereby designated as
liquor control commissioner.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-47)
   M.   Abate Nuisances And Health Issues. The mayor has all powers to abate
and remove all nuisances or health hazards within the jurisdictional boundaries
of the village authority as prescribed by law.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-48) (Amd. 2008 Code)
Cross-reference:
   For definition of mayor, see §
3-2-1
§ 1-7-4 COMPENSATION.
   Effective on and from and after the date of commencement of the newly
elected mayor’s term which occurs on the first regular or special meeting held
in May 2009, and for each mayor’s term thereafter, the mayor shall receive as
salary the sum of $275 per month, plus $55 for each scheduled special board of
trustees meeting, plus $25 for each committee meeting actually attended by the
mayor up to a maximum of one such meeting per month. No amounts shall be paid
to or received by the mayor for attendance at any adjourned board of trustees
meeting.
(Per correspondence dated 9-11-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of absences from meetings on compensation, see §
1-6-2 D.
§ 1-7-5 MAYOR PRO TEM; TEMPORARY CHAIR; ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   A.   Mayor Pro Tem. During a temporary absence or disability of the mayor
which incapacitates him or her from the performance of his or her duties but
does not create a vacancy in the office, the trustees shall elect one of their
members to act as mayor pro tem. The mayor pro tem, during this absence or
disability, shall perform the duties and possess all the rights and powers of
the mayor but shall not be entitled to vote both as mayor pro tem and trustee.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-41) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Temporary Chair. In the absence of the mayor, acting mayor, or mayor
pro tem, the trustees may elect one of their members to act as a temporary
chair. The temporary chair shall have only the powers of a presiding officer
and a right to vote only in the capacity as trustee on any ordinance,
resolution or motion.
(2008 Code)
   C.   Administrative Official. The mayor may appoint an officer to administer
the affairs of the village, with the advice and consent of the village board,
whenever the village board considers it necessary and expedient.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-41)
CHAPTER 8: VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
Section
   
1-8-1   Scope
   
1-8-2   Qualifications
   
1-8-3   Appointment And Term
   
1-8-4   Oath Of Office
   
1-8-5   Bonds
   
1-8-6   Compensation
   
1-8-7   Consolidation Of Offices
   
1-8-8   Books And Records
   
1-8-9   Fees And Monies
   
1-8-10   Interest In Contracts Or Business
   
1-8-11   Conservators Of The Peace
   
1-8-12   Leaves Of Absence
   
1-8-13   Pension Systems
   
1-8-14   Other Rules And Regulations
§ 1-8-1 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers and
employees of the village, regardless of the time of creation of the office or
position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-20)
§ 1-8-2 QUALIFICATIONS.
   A.   Qualified Elector; Residency. A person is not eligible for an elective
or appointive village office (except as otherwise provided in this code) unless
that person is a qualified elector of the village and has resided in the
village at least one year preceding his or her election or appointment.
However, the residency requirement does not apply to municipal engineers,
health officers, attorneys, or other officers who require technical training or
knowledge, to appointed village treasurers, to appointed village clerks, or to
appointed village collectors (unless the village has designated by ordinance
that the village clerk shall also hold the office of collector).
(1987 Code, § 1-2-21) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Delinquent Taxes; Felony Conviction. A person is not eligible for an
elective or appointive village office if that person is in arrears in the
payment of a tax or other indebtedness due the village or has been convicted in
any court located in the United States for any infamous crime, bribery, perjury
or other felony.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-21)
§ 1-8-3 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   At the first meeting of May in each year, or as soon thereafter as possible,
there shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the
village board, all appointive village officers who shall hold their several
offices for the term of one municipal year and until their successors are
appointed and qualified.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-20) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-8-4 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all municipal
officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe to the
following oath:
 
I, ________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the constitution of
the United States and the constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of ______________________,
according to the best of my ability.
 
(1987 Code, § 1-2-20)
§ 1-8-5 BONDS.
   A.   Bond Required. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the
village board, upon entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond
in such amount and with such sureties as may be determined by the board,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or
position.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-20)
   B.   Amounts. Bonds of village officers required under 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30
shall be executed in the following penal sums:
 
Each police officer $2,000
Mayor               $50,000
Village clerk       $50,000
Village treasurer   $500,000
 
(1987 Code, § 1-2-22) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Premium Payment By Village. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the village.
   D.   Surety. The village board shall not receive or approve any bond or
security whereon the name of the village board, any one of the trustees, or any
elected or appointed officer of the village is bondsperson or security. If, by
mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is approved by the
village board, or if any bondsperson, after becoming such, is elected or
appointed to any village office, this subsection D. shall not act as a release
of any such obligation incurred.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-22)
§ 1-8-6 COMPENSATION.
   A.   Increase Or Decrease.
      1.   Elected Officials. No salary or compensation of any elected village
officer who is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or
diminished so as to take effect during such elected officer’s term.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-25) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   Appointed Officials. No salary or compensation of any appointed
official who is appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased
during such term, but his or her salary or compensation may be increased.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-25)
   B.   Expenses. Any village officer or employee is entitled to reimbursement
for any reasonable actual expenses incurred by him or her in the performance of
his or her duties.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-29)
§ 1-8-7 CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES.
   A.   The village board may, from time to time by law, impose upon any
officer filling any office created by the ordinances of the village or this
code any such other or further duties as shall be consistent with the laws of
the state, and may consolidate any two or more of the offices and impose the
duties thereof upon any other officer and may make any such regulations
respecting such offices as shall be consistent with the laws of the state.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-23) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   In case the village board consolidates any offices created thereby, the
person performing the duties of the offices so consolidated shall not be
entitled on account thereof to receive any salary or compensation which he or
she would not have been entitled to receive if such consolidation had not taken
place.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-23)
§ 1-8-8 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   A.   Delivery To Successor.
      1.   Every officer shall, upon going out of office, deliver to his or her
successor all books, papers, furniture and other things appertaining to such
office and which are the property of the village.
      2.   Within five days after notification and request, any person who has
been an officer of the village is required to deliver to his or her successor
in office all property, books and effects in his or her possession belong to
the village or pertaining to the office he or she has held. Upon his or her
refusal to do so, he or she shall be liable for all damages caused thereby, and
shall, upon conviction, be penalized according to the provisions of § 
1-4-1.
   B.   Inspection. Every officer shall at all times, when required, submit the
books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of the mayor or any
committee or member of the board.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-20)
§ 1-8-9 FEES AND MONIES.
   A.   Report Of Fees And Monies Received. All officers of the village
entitled to receive fees or monies on behalf of the village shall keep an
accurate record thereof and make a report thereof, under oath, to the village
board prior to the regular meeting of each month. In the report, they shall
specify from whom such fees or monies were received, for what services and when
received.
   B.   Disposition. All fees and monies received shall be paid over to the
village treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-20) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-8-10 INTEREST IN CONTRACTS OR BUSINESS.
   No village officer shall be interested directly or indirectly in any village
contract, work, business or other matter to the extent prohibited by 65 ILCS 5/
3.1-55-10.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-31) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-8-11 CONSERVATORS OF THE PEACE.
   After receiving a certificate attesting to the successful completion of a
training course administered by the state law enforcement training standards
board, the mayor, trustees and police officers are designated as conservators
of the peace, with power to make arrests and such other powers as provided by
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-20) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-8-12 LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
   Any employee desiring to be temporarily absent from the village shall apply
to the mayor for a leave of absence which may, in the discretion of the mayor,
be granted in writing for any time and, when granted, shall be filed with the
clerk.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-20) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-8-13 PENSION SYSTEMS.
   A.   Participation In State Municipal Retirement Fund.
      1.   Village Participation. The village does hereby elect to participate
in the state municipal retirement fund.
      2.   Special Tax. The village includes in its levy and appropriation
ordinance provisions for the levying of a special tax to pay the village cost
of participating in such retirement fund and appropriate therefrom funds to pay
the cost of participation.
   B.   Social Security. It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village
to extend to the eligible employees the benefits of the federal old age and
survivors insurance system as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act,
being Pub. L. No. 74-271 et seq., and amendments thereto.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-32)
§ 1-8-14 OTHER RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Every officer of the village shall perform such other duties and be subject
to such other rules and regulations as the board may provide by law.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-20)
ARTICLE A: VILLAGE CLERK
Section
   
1-8A-1   Election And Term
   
1-8A-2   Duties
   
1-8A-3   Compensation
§ 1-8A-1 ELECTION AND TERM.
   The village clerk shall be elected at the same election as the mayor for a
four-year term, and shall serve until his or her successor is elected and has
qualified.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-53)
§ 1-8A-2 DUTIES.
   A.   Attend Meetings; Records Kept.
      1.   The village clerk shall attend all meetings of the village board and
shall keep in a suitable book to be styled “the journal of the village board” a
full and faithful record of its proceedings.
      2.   The village clerk shall record and properly index in a book kept for
that purpose all ordinances passed by the village board, and at the foot of the
record of each ordinance so recorded, he or she shall make a memorandum of the
date of the passage and, when published, a memorandum of the publication of
such ordinance.
      3.   The village clerk shall also record in proper books for the purpose
all official bonds, and note upon each bond so recorded when the same was
entered of record and the book and pages where recorded.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-54)
   B.   Preservation Of Records; Corporate Seal; Successor.
      1.   The clerk shall file conveniently, safely keep, and faithfully
preserve all original ordinances, bonds, books, papers or other documents that
may come into his or her hands and belong to his or her office. He or she shall
also have the custody of and in like manner file and keep all books, papers,
maps, drawings and documents belonging to the village and not in actual use by
any other officer of the village.
      2.   The clerk shall be the custodian of the village seal, and when
superseded in office, shall deliver everything pertaining thereto to his or her
successor.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-56)
   C.   Delivery Of Documents To Officers. The clerk shall deliver to the
several committees of the village board and to the officers of the village all
petitions, communications, reports and resolutions, orders, claims and other
papers referred to those committees or officers by the board on demand
therefor. He or she shall also, without delay, deliver to the mayor all
ordinances or resolutions, orders and claims in his or her charge which may be
required to be approved or otherwise acted upon by the mayor.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-55)
   D.   Preparation Of Documents, Commissions And Licenses. The clerk shall
prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and other official documents
required to be issued by him or her under this code and shall attest the same
with the corporate seal, and he or she shall, in like manner, attest all deeds
for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by the village.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-57)
   E.   Report Of Licenses. The clerk shall report to the village board at its
regular meeting each month, and more often if the board so requires, the data
contained in his or her license register with respect to licenses issued during
the previous month.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-58)
   F.   Administer Oaths. In addition to the mayor, the clerk shall have the
power to administer oaths or affirmations for all lawful purposes.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-59)
   G.   Outstanding Bonds. The clerk shall keep in his or her office, in a book
or books kept expressly for that purpose, a correct list of all the outstanding
bonds of the village, showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom
the bonds are issued; and when the village bonds are issued, or purchased, or
paid, or canceled, the book or books shall show the fact (and in his or her
annual report, the clerk shall describe particularly the bonds sold during the
year and the terms of sale, with each and every item of expense thereof).
(1987 Code, § 1-2-60)
   H.   Other Duties. In addition to the foregoing duties, the clerk shall
perform all such other duties pertaining to his or her office as are or may be
imposed upon him or her by law or resolution or ordinance of the village board.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-64)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Regulations, see chapter 10 of this title
§ 1-8A-3 COMPENSATION.
   Effective on and from and after the date of commencement of the newly
elected village clerk’s term
which occurs on the first regular or special meeting held in May 2009, and for
each village clerk’s term thereafter, the village clerk shall receive as salary
the sum of $125 per month for each scheduled regular board of trustees meeting,
plus $55 for each scheduled special board of trustees meeting. No amounts shall
be paid to or received by the village clerk for attendance at any adjourned
board of trustees meeting.
(Per correspondence dated 9-11-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of absences from meetings on compensation, see §
1-6-2 D.
ARTICLE B: FINANCE DEPARTMENT; VILLAGE TREASURER
Section
   
1-8B-1   Department Established
   
1-8B-2   Finance Committee
   
1-8B-3   Village Treasurer
   
1-8B-3-1   Appointment And Term
   
1-8B-3-2   Duties
   
1-8B-3-3   Deposit Of Funds
   
1-8B-3-4   Investments
§ 1-8B-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
village which shall be known as the finance department. The finance department
shall embrace the committee on finance of the village board and the village
treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-71)
§ 1-8B-2 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   The standing committee on finance shall exercise a general supervision over
the affairs of the finance department. The committee shall ascertain the
condition and needs thereof; shall, from time to time, report the same to the
mayor and village board so that a full understanding thereof shall be had; and
generally, shall do all the acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the
department.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-72)
§ 1-8B-3 VILLAGE TREASURER.
§ 1-8B-3-1 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   The village treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor for a one-year term,
with the advice and consent of the village board. He or she shall serve until
his or her successor is appointed and has qualified.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-73) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-8B-3-2 DUTIES.
   A.   Monies; Accounts; Payments.
      1.   The village treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the
village and shall keep the treasurer’s books and accounts which shall always be
subject to the inspection of any member of the corporate authorities.
      2.   The village treasurer shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging to the fund or
appropriation.
      3.   The village treasurer shall give every person paying money into the
treasury a receipt, specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid.
The treasurer shall file copies of the receipts with the village clerk, with
the treasurer’s monthly reports. If the treasurer has possession of money
properly appropriated to the payment of any warrant lawfully drawn upon the
treasury, the treasurer shall pay the money specified in the warrant to the
person designated by the warrant.
   B.   Separation Of Funds. The village treasurer shall keep all monies
belonging to the village and in the treasurer’s custody separate and distinct
from the treasurer’s own money and shall not use, either directly or
indirectly, the village money or warrants for the personal use and benefit of
the treasurer or of any other person. Any violation of this subsection B. shall
subject the treasurer to immediate removal from office by the corporate
authorities, who may declare the treasurer’s office vacant.
   C.   Special Assessment Funds. All monies received on a special assessment
shall be held by the village treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the
payment of the improvement for which the assessment was made, and the monies
shall be used for no other purpose, except to reimburse the village for monies
expended for the improvement.
   D.   Reports.
      1.   Receipts And Expenditures. The village treasurer shall report to the
corporate authorities, as often as they require, a full and detailed account of
all receipts and expenditures of the village, as shown by the treasurer’s
books, up to the time of the report.
      2.   Monthly Reports; Warrants. At the end of every month, and more often
if required by the corporate authorities, the village treasurer shall render an
account, under oath, to the corporate authorities, showing the state of the
treasury at the date of the account and the balance of money in the treasury.
The treasurer shall accompany the account with a statement of all monies
received into the treasury and on what account, together with all warrants
redeemed and paid by the treasurer. On the day the treasurer renders an
account, these warrants, with all vouchers held by the treasurer, shall be
delivered to the village clerk and filed, together with the account, in the
clerk’s office. All paid warrants shall be marked “paid.” The treasurer shall
keep a register of all warrants, which shall describe each warrant, showing its
date, amount and number, the fund from which paid, the name of the person to
whom paid, and when paid.
      3.   Annual Report.
         a.   (1)   Within six months after the end of each fiscal year, the
village treasurer shall annually prepare and file with the village clerk an
account of monies received and expenditures incurred during the preceding
fiscal year as specified in this subsection D.3.a. The treasurer shall show in
the account:
               (A)   All monies received by the village, indicating the total
amounts, in the aggregate, received in each account of the village, with a
general statement concerning the source of receipts. In this subsection D.3.a.
(1)(A), the term ACCOUNT does not mean each individual taxpayer, householder,
licensee, utility user or other persons whose payments to the village are
credited to a general account.
               (B)   Except as provided in subsection D.3.a.(1)(C) below, all
monies paid out by the village where the total amount paid during the fiscal
year exceeds $2,500 in the aggregate, giving the name of each person to whom
monies were paid and the total paid to each person.
               (C)   All monies paid out by the village as compensation for
personal services, giving the name of each person to whom monies were paid and
the total amount paid to each person from each account; except, that the
treasurer may elect to report the compensation for personal services of all
personnel by name, listing each employee in one of the following categories:
 
Under $25,000.00
$25,000.00 to $49,999.99
$50,000.00 to $74,999.99
$75,000.00 to $99,999.99
$100,000.00 to $124,999.99
$125,000.00 and over
 
               (D)   A summary statement of operations for all funds and
account groups of the village, as excerpted from the annual financial report as
filed with the appropriate state agency.
            (2)   Upon receipt of the account from the village treasurer, the
village clerk shall publish the account at least once in one or more newspapers
having a general circulation within the village.
         b.   Within six months after the end of each fiscal year, the village
treasurer, as provided in subsection D.3.a. above, shall file with the county
collector of taxes a copy of the annual account that is required to be filed
with and published by the village clerk, as provided in subsection D.3.a.
above, together with an affidavit of the village clerk stating that the copy is
a true and correct copy of the annual account filed with the clerk, that it was
published as required by subsection D.3.a. above, the date of the filing and
publication, and the newspaper in which it was published.
(2008 Code)
§ 1-8B-3-3 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   A.   The treasurer is hereby required to keep all funds and monies in his or
her custody belonging to the village in such places of deposit as have been
designated by subsection B. below.
   B.   When requested by the village treasurer, the corporate authorities
shall designate one or more banks or savings and loan associations in which may
be kept the funds and monies of the village in the custody of the treasurer.
When a bank or savings and loan association has been designated as a
depository, it shall continue as such depository until ten days have elapsed
after a new depository is designated and has qualified by furnishing the
statements of resources and liabilities as required by law. When a new
depository is designated, the corporate authorities shall notify the sureties
of the village treasurer of that fact in writing at least five days before the
transfer of funds. The village treasurer shall be discharged from
responsibility for all funds or monies that the treasurer deposits in a
designated bank or savings and loan association while the funds and monies are
so deposited.
   C.   No bank or savings and loan association shall receive public funds as
permitted by this section unless it has complied with the requirements of the
Public Funds Investment Act § 6, being 30 ILCS 235/0.01 et seq.
   D.   The village treasurer may require any bank or savings and loan
association to deposit with said treasurer securities or mortgages that have a
market value at least equal to the amount of the funds or monies of the village
deposited with the bank or savings and loan association that exceeds the
insurance limitation provided by the federal deposit insurance corporation or
the federal savings and loan insurance corporation.
   E.   The village treasurer may enter into agreements of any definite or
indefinite term regarding the deposit, redeposit, investment, reinvestment or
withdrawal of municipal funds.
   F.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section or any other law,
each official custodian of municipal funds, including, without limitation, the
village treasurer or finance director, or each person properly designated as
the official custodian for municipal funds, including, without limitation, each
person properly designated as official custodian of funds held by an
intergovernmental risk management entity, self-insurance pool, waste management
agency, or other intergovernmental entity composed solely of participating
municipalities, is permitted to:
      1.   Combine monies from more than one fund of a single municipality,
risk management entity, self-insurance pool or other intergovernmental entity
composed solely of participating municipalities for the purpose of investing
such monies;
      2.   Join with any other official custodians or treasurers of municipal,
intergovernmental risk management entity, self-insurance pool, waste management
agency or other intergovernmental entity composed solely of participating
municipalities for the purpose of jointly investing the funds of which the
official custodians or treasurers have custody; and
      3.   Enter into agreements of any definite or indefinite term regarding
the redeposit, investment or withdrawal of municipal, risk management entity,
self-insurance agency, waste management agency or other intergovernmental
entity funds.
(2008 Code)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 30 ILCS 235/6
§ 1-8B-3-4 INVESTMENTS.
   The village treasurer is hereby authorized to invest surplus funds or
reserve funds of the village in the following types of investments:
   A.   General obligation securities of the United States of America or of the
state;
   B.   Certificates of deposit and time deposits in any bank where such
investments are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Company;
   C.   Short-term discount obligations of the Federal National Mortgage
Association;
   D.   Money market accounts; and
   E.   Unless and until otherwise designated by the village corporate
authorities, the following banks are hereby designated as places of deposit
where the village treasurer is required to keep all funds and monies in his or
her custody belonging to the village: Citizens Bank of Edinburg.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-85) (Amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE C: VILLAGE ATTORNEY
Section
   
1-8C-1   Appointment And Term
   
1-8C-2   Duties
   
1-8C-3   Compensation
§ 1-8C-1 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   The village attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the
approval of the village board, for a term of one year, unless sooner removed
for cause, and until his or her successor shall have been appointed and
qualified.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-89)
§ 1-8C-2 DUTIES.
   The attorney shall have full charge of the law affairs of the village, and
shall be known as the village attorney of the village of Edinburg.
(1987 Code, §§ 1-2-88, 1-2-89)
   A.   Prosecute And Defend. Upon request of the mayor or board and by
agreement with the village attorney, the village attorney shall prosecute or
defend on behalf of the village all cases in which the interests of the village
or any officer thereof are involved, and the village clerk shall furnish him or
her with certified copies of any ordinance, bond or paper in his or her keeping
necessary to be filed or used in any suit or proceeding.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-90) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Preparation Of Documents. The village attorney shall, when requested,
advise the village board or any officer in all matters of law in which the
interests of the village are involved, and he or she shall draw such
ordinances, resolutions, bonds, forms and contracts or other documents or
instruments, or examine and pass upon the same as may be requested of him or
her by the mayor, the village board or any committee thereof.
   C.   Legal Advisor. When requested by the mayor and the village board, the
village attorney shall act as the legal advisor for the zoning board of appeals
and the plan commission, and he or she shall perform the legal services
required of said commissions.
   D.   Dismissal Of Suits. The village attorney shall not be required to
prosecute any suit or action arising under the ordinances of the village when,
upon investigation of the same, he or she shall become satisfied that the
complaint was instituted maliciously, vexatiously or without just cause, and he
or she shall dismiss or discontinue any such suit or proceeding upon such terms
as he or she may deem just or equitable.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-90)
§ 1-8C-3 COMPENSATION.
   The village attorney shall be paid on an hourly basis for services rendered
at such rate as may be acceptable, from time to time, to the village attorney
and the village board of trustees.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-89)
ARTICLE D: GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT
Section
   
1-8D-1   Consolidation Of Offices
   
1-8D-2   Appointment And Term
   
1-8D-3   Duties
   
1-8D-4   Compensation
§ 1-8D-1 CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES.
   The offices of superintendent of gas, superintendent of water,
superintendent of sewer, and street superintendent are hereby consolidated and
handled by a general superintendent.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-92)
§ 1-8D-2 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   A general superintendent shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the
consent of the village board, and shall hold office subject to the pleasure of
the mayor and village board.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-92)
§ 1-8D-3 DUTIES.
   The general superintendent shall, subject to the direction of the mayor or
village board, have the general direction, supervision and control over the
gas, water, sewer and street departments and of the other village employees,
except members of the police department, village treasurer, or clerical office
staff. In addition thereto, the general superintendent shall have all the
powers and be responsible for all the duties as are identified in this code as
belonging to the superintendent of gas, superintendent of water, superintendent
of sewer, and street superintendent, respectively. Any reference to such
superintendents in this code shall hereafter mean to refer to the general
superintendent.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-92) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-8D-4 COMPENSATION.
   The general superintendent shall receive such salary as may be determined by
the village board from
time to time.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-92)
ARTICLE E: VILLAGE ADVISORY ENGINEER
Section
   
1-8E-1   Office Created; Appointment And Term
   
1-8E-2   Duties
   
1-8E-3   Compensation
§ 1-8E-1 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   There is hereby created the office of village advisory engineer who may be
appointed for a term during the municipal year at the direction of the village
president and shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. If appointed, the village advisory engineer shall be appointed by
the village president, by and with the advice and consent of the village board
of trustees.
(Ord. 700, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 1-8E-2 DUTIES.
   When requested by the village president or the village board of trustees,
from time to time, the village advisory engineer shall perform engineering
services and consultation and advice to the village pertaining to village
business or affairs or projects.
(Ord. 700, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 1-8E-3 COMPENSATION.
   The village advisory engineer shall be paid on an hourly basis for services
rendered at such rate as may be acceptable, from time to time, to the village
advisory engineer and the village board of trustees. (Ord. 700, passed 6-14-
2004)
CHAPTER 9: ETHICS
Section
   
1-9-1   State Regulations Adopted
   
1-9-2   Definitions
   
1-9-3   Interpretation
   
1-9-4   Prohibited Acts
   
1-9-5   Penalties
   
1-9-6   Amendments
   
1-9-7   Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
§ 1-9-1 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The regulations of 5 ILCS 430/5-15 and 5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 430/10-40 of
the state officials and employees ethics act, being 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq., are
hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees
of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
(Ord. 696, passed 5-10-2004) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-9-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
(Ord. 696, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 1-9-3 INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
(Ord. 696, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 1-9-4 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   A.   Gifts.
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under such statutes by an officer or any employee of the village is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the village under such statutes is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities. The participation in political activities
prohibited under such statutes by any officer or employee of the village is
hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 696, passed 5-10-2004) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-9-5 PENALTIES.
   The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of such statutes.
(Ord. 696, passed 5-10-2004) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-9-6 AMENDMENTS.
   Any amendment to such statutes that becomes effective after the effective
date hereof shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be
applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to
prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this chapter by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the village.
(Ord. 696, passed 5-10-2004) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 1-9-7 UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS.
   A.   If the state supreme court declares such statutes unconstitutional in
their entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the
state supreme court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further
appeals or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further
action by the corporate authorities of the village if such statutes are found
unconstitutional by the state supreme court.
   B.   If the state supreme court declares part of such statutes
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of such
statutes or does not address the remainder of such statutes, then the remainder
of such statutes as adopted by this chapter shall remain in full force and
effect; however, that part of this chapter relating to the part of such
statutes found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action
by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 696, passed 5-10-2004) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 10: VILLAGE RECORDS
Section
   
1-10-1   Location Of Records
   
1-10-2   Disclosure Of Public Records
§ 1-10-1 LOCATION OF RECORDS.
   All official records, including the village seal, shall be kept in the
village hall.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-30)
Cross-reference:
   Preservation Of Records; Corporate Seal; Successor, see §
1-8A-2 B.
§ 1-10-2 DISCLOSURE OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   A.   Designated Official. The village clerk is hereby designated as the
appropriate official to keep centralized records, files and information
concerning the freedom of information act, being 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq., and to
coordinate activities responsive thereto among the various departments of the
village.
(1987 Code, § 1-4-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Fees.
      1.   Schedule Of Fees.
         a.   The schedule of fees to be charged for copies and certification
of public documents pursuant to the freedom of information act is as follows:
 
Certifications $0.50 per certified sheet
Duplications   $0.25 per page
Village code   $25
 
         b.    If a voluminous request is for electronic records and those
records are not in a portable document format (PDF), the public body may charge
up to $20 for not more than two megabytes of data, up to $40 for more than two,
but not more than four, megabytes of data, and up to $100 for more than four
megabytes of data. If a voluminous request is for electronic records and those
records are in a portable document format, the public body may charge up to $20
for not more than 80 megabytes of data, up to $40 for more than 80 megabytes,
but not more than 160 megabytes, of data, and up to $100 for more than 160
megabytes of data. If the responsive electronic records are in both a portable
document format and not in a portable document format, the public body may
separate the fees and charge the requester under both fee scales.
(5 ILCS 140/6)
      2.   Payment Of Fees. The village clerk, each department head, and any
person designated by the village clerk or a department head to respond to a
request for public records may, upon determination that the probable cost of
copying requested records would exceed $10, require payment of the estimated
cost by the requestor prior to actually copying such records. If the actual
cost of copying said records according to the fee schedule provided in this
subsection exceeds or is less than the estimated cost, the requestor will be
required to pay or be refunded the difference accordingly at the time the
copies are delivered to the requestor.
(1987 Code, § 1-4-2)
   C.   Place Of Examination. The village clerk, each department head, and each
person designated by each department head to respond to requests for public
records in such department is authorized to designate to a requestor of records
an area within which the requested records may be examined. It shall be
unlawful for any person requesting such records to remove any of them from such
designated area. (1987 Code, § 1-4-3)
   D.   Prohibited Acts.
      1.   Destruction; Defacement; Theft. It shall be unlawful for any
requestor of records to destroy or deface said records or to take them with
intent to permanently deprive the village of their possession. (1987 Code, § 1-
4-4)
      2.   False Certification. It shall be unlawful for any person requesting
examination or copies of public records to certify falsely that such request
for inspection or copying is not for the purpose of furthering a personal or
commercial enterprise.
(1987 Code, § 1-4-5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   E.   Appeals. Any person denied access to inspect or copy any public record
may appeal such denial by sending a written notice of appeal to the mayor, and
such appeal shall thereafter proceed in accordance with 5 ILCS 140/11.5.
(1987 Code, § 1-4-6) (Amd. 2008 Code)
TITLE 2: FINANCE AND TAXATION
   Chapter
      
1.    GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
      
2.    GENERAL TAX RATES
      
3.    TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
Section
   
2-1-1   Claims
   
2-1-2   Contracts And Purchases
   
2-1-3   Rates And Charges For Use Of Village Labor And Equipment
§ 2-1-1 CLAIMS.
   All claims against the village for goods purchased, damages or originating
in any other way, except for claims for salaries and other allowances that are
fixed by ordinance, must be presented on or before the fifth day of each month
to the village treasurer. All such claims must be in writing, and items shall
be specified. This does not prohibit the village board from passing on any
claims not previously presented to the village treasurer if, in the opinion of
the board, justice to the claimant requires it.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-26) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 2-1-2 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES.
   A.   Compliance With State Law. All contracts for purchases by the village
shall be in compliance with state statutes.
   B.   Contracts Over $25,000. Except as otherwise provided by statute, any
work or other public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or in
part by special assessment or special taxation, when the expense thereof will
exceed $25,000, shall be constructed either:
      1.   By a contract let to the lowest responsible bidder after advertising
for bids, in the manner as determined by majority motion vote of the village
board from time to time; except, that any such contract may be entered into by
the proper officers without advertising for bids if authorized by a vote of
two-thirds of all trustees then holding office; or
      2.   If authorized by a vote of two-thirds of all trustees then holding
office, the superintendent shall superintend and cause to be carried out the
construction of the work or other public improvement and shall employ
exclusively for the performance of all manual labor thereon, laborers and
artisans whom the village shall pay by the day or hour; and all material of the
value of $25,000 and upward used in the construction of the work or the public
improvement shall be purchased by contract let to the lowest responsible bidder
after advertising for bids, unless advertising for bids is waived by a two-
thirds vote of all trustees then holding office. However, nothing contained in
this section shall apply to any contract between the village and the federal
government or any agency thereof.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-24) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Public Works Construction Contracts. The following requirements shall
apply to all public works contracts between the village and contractors
involving construction work on public improvements for the village.
      1.   Bid Bonds. Bid bonds shall be required in all cases and in the form
as the village board of trustees may determine from time to time. The amount of
the bid security shall equal 10% of the amount of the contractor’s bid
proposal. The bid security shall take the form of a cash deposit with the
village, a certified check payable to the village, or a bid bond guaranteed by
a reputable surety insurance company.
      2.   Performance And Payment Bonds.
         a.   Performance and payment bonds shall be required in all public
work contracts of any kind costing over $150,000 until January 1, 2029, and
then any in kind costing over $50,000 thereafter January 1, 2029. The village
board of trustees, by majority vote, may from time to time require performance
and payment bonds for any public work contract or contracts of any kind costing
under $150,000 until January 1, 2029, and then any in kind costing over $50,000
thereafter January 1, 2029. In all cases, the performance and payment bond
shall be in the form as the village board of trustees by majority vote may
determine from time to time.
         b.   For contracts under $100,000 and not involving the expenditure of
motor fuel tax funds, federal aid funds, or other funds received from the
state, the contractor may provide a non-diminishing irrevocable bank letter of
credit from a reputable financial institution in lieu of such bond provided
such letter of credit complies with all provisions required for bonds under 30
ILCS 550/1 and under this §
1-10-1-1. The amount of such letter of credit shall be in an amount equal to
%110 of the contractor’s contract amount.
         c.   In all other cases, the performance and payment bond shall be in
an amount equal to 100% of the contractor’s contract amount and shall be
secured (guaranteed) by a reputable surety insurance company or by a cash
deposit equal to the bond amount. In lieu of a cash deposit, a contractor may
use as security a non-diminishing irrevocable letter of credit issued by a
bank, savings and loan association, surety, or insurance company in an amount
equal to 110% of the amount of the contractor’s contract amount.
(Ord. 812, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 2-1-3 RATES AND CHARGES FOR USE OF VILLAGE LABOR AND EQUIPMENT.
   A.   Scope. The hourly rates set forth in this section shall be charged to
and paid for any and all work performed by any of the village employees for any
village resident or for any owner or owners of property located within or
without the village corporate limits.
   B.   Formula. The hourly rate for labor and/or use of village machinery or
equipment shall be computed and determined at the time of such work according
to the following formula: Add the total of the gross hourly wage, social
security and state municipal retirement fund contribution costs of all full-
time village employees (excluding only the village president, board of
trustees, village clerk, village treasurer, office staff, police department
employees, village attorney and village engineer), then divide such sum by the
total of such full-time village employees, and the quotient (being the average)
shall be multiplied by four, and the product shall be the hourly rate to be so
charged and paid.
   C.   Exemptions. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this section, the
foregoing rates and charges shall not be applicable for any work performed for
the benefit of any village-owned property.
(1987 Code, § 1-2-33)
CHAPTER 2: GENERAL TAX RATES
Section
   
2-2-1   Corporate Tax
   
2-2-2   Police Tax
§ 2-2-1 CORPORATE TAX.
   The maximum rate for general corporate purposes of the village is hereby
established at 0.25%.
(1987 Code, § 36-1-1)
§ 2-2-2 POLICE TAX.
   The maximum rate for police protection purposes of the village is hereby
established at 0.075%.
(1987 Code, § 36-1-2)
CHAPTER 3: TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Section
   
2-3-1   Title
   
2-3-2   Scope; Application Of Provisions
   
2-3-3   Definitions
   
2-3-4   Notice Requirements
   
2-3-5   Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
   
2-3-6   Application Of Tax Payments
   
2-3-7   Certain Credits And Refunds
   
2-3-8   Audit Procedure
   
2-3-9   Appeals
   
2-3-10   Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
   
2-3-11   Installment Contracts
   
2-3-12   Statute Of Limitations
   
2-3-13   Voluntary Disclosure
   
2-3-14   Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
   
2-3-15   Review Of Liens
§ 2-3-1 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the “Locally Imposed And
Administered Tax Rights And Responsibility Ordinance.”
(1987 Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 2-3-2 SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   A.   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village
procedures in connection with all of the village locally imposed and
administered taxes.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-2)
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions. This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-18)
§ 2-3-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The local government taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The village president and board of trustees.
   HEARING OFFICER. An administrative individual appointed by the village
president, with the advice and consent of the village board of trustees, to
conduct hearings and to issue final determinations regarding the collection of
all locally imposed and administered taxes.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The village treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including his or her staff, employees or agents, to the extent they are
authorized by the village treasurer to act in the village treasurer’s stead.
The LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of
this chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such
authority by the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this
chapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village and not as an agency or
department of the state. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real
property under the Property Tax Code, being 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq., or fees
collected by the village other than infrastructure maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE. The village of Edinburg, Illinois.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq. and 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
§ 2-3-4 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the
notice is to be in writing and mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax
administrator by registered or certified mail.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 2-3-5 DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is
physically received by the village on or before the due date; or received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable United States postmark
dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with
adequate postage prepaid.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 2-3-6 APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   A.   First, to the tax due for the applicable period;
   B.   Second, to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   C.   Third, to the penalty for the applicable period.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-6)
§ 2-3-7 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   A.   Written Protest Required. The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid or remitted without written protest at the time of
payment or remittance in the event that a locally imposed and administered tax
is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid or remitted
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or remittance or if the taxpayer paid
or remitted the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations. The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be four years after the end of the calendar year in
which payment or remittance in error was made. The village shall not grant a
credit or refund of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest or
penalties to a person who has not paid or remitted the amounts directly to the
village.
   C.   Procedure. The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid or remitted in error
shall be as follows:
(1987 Code, § 2-1-7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator, in
writing, a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
(1987 Code, § 2-1-7)
         c.   The date of the tax payment or remittance subject to the claim
and the canceled check or receipt for the payment;
(1987 Code, § 2-1-7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
         d.   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within 14 days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of any
claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 3% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-7)
§ 2-3-8 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Information Required. Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
(1987 Code, § 2-1-8)
      2.   The time period to be audited; and
      3.   A detailed description of the documentation or books and records to
be made available for the auditor.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-8) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit.
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30
days after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event the
taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that
is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer’s Books And Records.
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer’s business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
or tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments. If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of
the village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity. In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-8)
§ 2-3-9 APPEALS.
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due. The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator’s
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-9)
   B.   Request For Hearing. A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within 45 days after receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment or notice of tax liability.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-9) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice. If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and
petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to
all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request. If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the 45-day period, the tax
determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request. Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than 90 days after
the expiration of the 45-day period.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-9)
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision.
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal. The taxpayer may
request that a hearing officer conduct the hearing rather than the local tax
administrator.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator/hearing officer shall
preside and shall hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax
determination, audit or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator/
hearing officer shall make a written determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with
a copy of the written decision.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-10)
§ 2-3-10 PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   A.   Time For Payment. In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid or remitted within the time frame otherwise indicated.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-11) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 12%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-11)
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the village.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-11) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties. The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-12)
§ 2-3-11 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment or remittance of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local
tax administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay or remit any amount due on time. Upon written notice
by the local tax administrator that the payment or remittance is 30 days
delinquent, the taxpayer shall have 14 days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to
demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local
administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without further
notice to the taxpayer.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-13) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 2-3-12 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-14) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-14)
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the village,
the tax paid or remitted was less than 75% of the tax due for that period, the
statute of limitations shall be six years’ maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was due, or end of
the calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed,
whichever occurs later.
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-14) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 2-3-13 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid or remitted under
this section must be paid or remitted within 90 days after a final
determination and the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed,
or the date agreed to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-15) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 2-3-14 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk’s office.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-16)
§ 2-3-15 REVIEW OF LIENS.
   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-17)
TITLE 3: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1.    GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
2.    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
3.    COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
      
4.    RAFFLES
      
5.    PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
      
6.    CABLE TELEVISION CODE
      
7.    VIDEO GAMING DEVICES
      
8.    CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
      
9.    CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
3-1-1   Nuisance, Unsafe, Unhealthful Businesses
   
3-1-2   License To Be Posted
§ 3-1-1 NUISANCE, UNSAFE, UNHEALTHFUL BUSINESSES.
   A.   No business or establishment, whether or not licensed, shall be so
conducted or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact, and no building,
vehicle, structure, yard, lot, premises or part thereof shall be used, kept,
maintained or operated in connection with any business or establishment so as
to occasion any nuisance, or so as to be dangerous to life or detrimental to
health.
   B.   No building or structure utilized, constructed or maintained in
connection with any business or occupation shall evidence an unsanitary, unsafe
or dangerous condition.
   C.   No substance, matter or thing of any kind whatever, which would be
dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed to exist in connection
with any business or occupation, or be used in any work or labor performed in
the village.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-1)
Cross-reference:
   Offensive businesses, see §
4-1-1 D.
§ 3-1-2 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his or her license posted at all times in a prominent place on
the premises used for such business.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-3)
CHAPTER 2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
3-2-1   Definitions
   
3-2-2   License And Compliance Required
   
3-2-3   Ineligibility For License
   
3-2-4   Authority To Grant Licenses; Applications
   
3-2-5   Term Of License
   
3-2-6   Advance Payment Of Fee; Proration; Refunds; Disposition
   
3-2-7   Contents Of License
   
3-2-8   Classification Of Licenses; Fees
   
3-2-9   Number Of Licenses
   
3-2-10   Display Of License
   
3-2-11   Record Of Licenses
   
3-2-12   License Holders In Annexed Land
   
3-2-13   Discontinuance Of Business; Damaged Or Destroyed Business
   
3-2-14   Days And Hours Of Operation
   
3-2-15   Location Restrictions
   
3-2-16   Health Standards; Sanitary Conditions
   
3-2-17   Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
   
3-2-18   Persons Under Twenty One Years Of Age
   
3-2-19   Lewd Entertainment
   
3-2-20   Transporting Alcoholic Beverages
   
3-2-21   Drinking In Public And On Private Property; Open Containers
   
3-2-22   Additional Prohibited Acts
   
3-2-23   Examinations And Inspections
   
3-2-24   Permitting Violations
   
3-2-25   Liability Of Licensee For Violations
   
3-2-26   Enforcement Powers Of Liquor Control Commissioner
   
3-2-27   Revocation Or Suspension Of License; Notice; Hearing; Appeal
   
3-2-28   Forfeiture Of License Fees
   
3-2-29   Violations; Premises Declared A Nuisance
   
3-2-30   Penalty
§ 3-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does not include denatured alcohol or wood
alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5% or less of alcohol by
volume.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CLOSE. To shut up so as to prevent entrance or access by any person; and the
entire suspension of business.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of the state and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors kept, used and maintained by its
members, through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their quests, and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants and
employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members and
their guests; provided, that such CLUB files with the mayor, at the time of its
application for a license under this chapter, two copies of a list of names and
residences of its members, and similarly files within ten days of the election
of any additional member, his or her name and address; and provided further,
that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting, and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of the club is
paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other
compensation, any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to
the club or its members or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount
of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the members
or by the board of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue
of the CLUB.
   MAYOR. The local liquor control commissioner as provided in 235 ILCS 5/4-2.
   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. Any public place where packaged liquors are offered
for sale in the original, unopened container for consumption away from the
premises.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any premises enclosed or unenclosed or partly enclosed or
partly unenclosed wherein any service or goods, chattels or merchandise is
offered for sale to the public or any such premises used as a clubhouse, club
room or meeting place. The terms PUBLIC PLACE and PUBLIC PREMISES shall be
interchangeable for the purposes of this chapter.
   RESIDENT. One who has his or her residence in the village.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually
are served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Any sales for use or consumption and not
for resale in any form.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of ALCOHOL or SPIRITS as defined in this
section.
(1987 Code, § 21-1-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
Cross-reference:
   Mayor To Serve As Liquor Control Commissioner, see §
1-7-3 L.
§ 3-2-2 LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell, keep or offer for sale at retail, or conduct any place
for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor within the limits and territory of
the village without having a license to do so, issued by the mayor of the
village in the manner hereinafter provided, and a valid license for such
purpose issued by the state liquor control commission. Each building, location
and premises within the aforesaid territory of the village at or upon which
alcoholic liquor is to be sold or kept or offered for sale at retail must
comply with applicable laws.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-1)
§ 3-2-3 INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE.
   A.   Persons Ineligible.
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection A.2. below and in 235
ILCS 5/3-12, no retail license shall be issued by the mayor to:
         a.   A person who is not a resident of the village;
         b.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
         c.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
         d.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, unless the mayor determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person’s application and the mayor’s investigation. The burden of proof
of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant;
         e.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping
a house of ill fame;
         f.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
         g.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause;
         h.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
         i.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any
limited partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited
partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive a
license hereunder for any reason;
         j.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member,
officer, manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning
in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such corporation, would not be
eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship
and residence within the village;
         k.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is
incorporated or organized in the state, or unless it is a foreign corporation
or foreign limited liability company which is qualified under the Business
Corporation Act of 1983, being 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq., or the limited
liability company act to transact business in Illinois. The mayor shall permit
and accept from an applicant for a license under this chapter proof prepared
from the secretary of state’s website that the corporation or limited liability
company is in good standing and is qualified under the Business Corporation Act
of 1983 or the limited liability company act to transact business in the state;
         l.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by
the licensee;
         m.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to July 29, 2005, or has forfeited his or her bond to appear in
court to answer charges for any such violation;
         n.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
         o.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local
liquor control commissions, any mayor, alderman, or member of the city council
or commission, any president of the village board of trustees, any member of a
village board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall have a direct interest in the manufacture, sale, or
distribution of alcoholic liquor; except, that a license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises that are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is
approved by the state liquor control commission; and except, that a license may
be granted to any member of the village board of trustees if the sale of
alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is incidental to the selling of food;
the issuance of the license is approved by the state commission; the issuance
of the license is in accordance with all other code provisions; and such member
granted a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor issues pending before the
board. Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection A.1.o. to the contrary,
an alderman or member of a city council or commission, a member of a village
board of trustees other than the president of the village board of trustees, or
a member of a county board other than the president of a county board may have
a direct interest in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor
as long as he or she is not a law enforcing public official, a mayor, a village
board president, or president of a county board. To prevent any conflict of
interest, the elected official with the direct interest in the manufacture,
sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor cannot participate in any meetings,
hearings, or decisions on matters impacting the manufacture, sale, or
distribution of alcoholic liquor;
         p.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
         q.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as
proscribed by any of 720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(11), or as proscribed by
720 ILCS 5/28-1.1 or 5/28-3, or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of
the aforesaid statutory provisions;
         r.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been
issued by the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be
issued a license under the Raffle and Poker Runs Act, being 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et
seq., or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jars Game Act, being 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.;
and/or
         s.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor
liability insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least
equal to the maximum liability amounts set out in 235 ILCS 5/6-21(a).
      2.   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the
denial, suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the
corporation if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any
federal or state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of
alcoholic liquor, the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any
financial gain to the corporation, and the corporation has terminated its
relationship with each director, officer, employee, or controlling shareholder
whose actions directly contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The
mayor shall determine if all provisions of this subsection A.2. have been met
before any action on the corporation’s license is initiated.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Businesses Ineligible.
      1.   Stores Selling School Supplies And Lunches. No license shall be
issued to any person for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor at any
store or other place of business where the majority of customers are minors of
school age or where the principal business transacted consists of school books,
school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for minors.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-4)
      2.   Gasoline Service Stations; Convenience Stores. No liquor license
shall be issued to any person, firm, or corporation for the sale at retail of
any alcoholic liquor, beer or wine at any gasoline service station or similar
place of business or at any convenience store where gasoline or diesel fuel or
gasohol is also sold for use of motor vehicles.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq., 805 ILCS 180/1-1 et seq.,
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq. and 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
§ 3-2-4 AUTHORITY TO GRANT LICENSES; APPLICATIONS.
   A.   The mayor is authorized to grant and issue licenses to individuals,
firms, and corporations to sell at retail and to keep and offer for sale at
retail alcoholic liquors within the limits and territory of the village upon
the conditions and in the manner provided by this chapter and by the act of the
general assembly of Illinois, and not otherwise. Such license shall be in
writing, signed by the mayor and attested by the village clerk, with the seal
of his office affixed thereto.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-2)
   B.   1.   Prior to issuance of a license, the applicant must sign and submit
to the mayor an application, in triplicate, in writing, and under oath, setting
forth the information and documents required in the application. The form of
such application shall be approved by the board from time to time, and the
approved application form shall be on file in the village office from time to
time.
      2.   In case of a copartnership, corporation, or limited liability
company, the information and statements required in the application shall be
furnished as to each partner, member, officer, manager, director and
stockholder thereof, with the location of the principal office of the
copartnership, corporation or limited liability company.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-2) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   The application for a license shall be filed with the village clerk.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-4)
§ 3-2-5 TERM OF LICENSE.
   A.   Retail liquor licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period not to exceed six months upon the payment of the license fee as
hereinafter set forth, unless sooner revoked or suspended. The six-month
periods shall be from January 1 of each year to June 30 of that year and from
July 1 of each year to December 31 of that year.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-4)
   B.   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal
privilege, good for not to exceed six months after issued, unless sooner
revoked as in this chapter authorized and provided and shall not constitute a
right.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-6)
§ 3-2-6 ADVANCE PAYMENT OF FEE; PRORATION; REFUNDS; DISPOSITION.
   The license fee shall be payable in advance by the applicant for a license
at the time the application for a license is submitted to the local liquor
control commissioner as herein provided. In the event the license is granted
for less than six months, the license fee shall be prorated. In the event the
license is denied, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant. The fees
shall be deposited with the village treasurer who shall deposit the fees in the
village general fund.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-4)
§ 3-2-7 CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   Each license shall state thereon the names of the licensees and the address
and description of the premises for which it is granted and the date of its
issuance and expiration.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-4)
§ 3-2-8 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES.
   Licenses to be issued under this chapter shall be of four classes: class A,
class B, class C and class D.
   A.   Class A License. Class A licenses shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor on the premises specified in the license either in original
containers or for consumption on the premises. The annual fee for such license
shall be $400, payable semiannually in advance.
   B.   Class B License. Class B licenses shall authorize the retail sale of
beer (regardless of alcoholic content) and wine (regardless of alcoholic
content) and other alcoholic liquors (with an alcohol content of less than 6%)
on the premises described in the license, in original containers, for
consumption off the premises. The annual fee for such license shall be $400,
payable semiannually in advance.
   C.   Class C License. The corporate authorities, in their sole discretion,
may issue class C licenses from time to time for special events. Such licenses
shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or spirits and/or wine and/or
beer for consumption on, about or off the premises where sold, all as may be
determined by the majority vote of the corporate authorities. The terms of, fee
for, and duration of license, and such other conditions the corporate
authorities may impose on such license, shall be as determined by the majority
vote of the corporate authorities.
   D.   Class D License. Class D licenses shall be issued only to not for
profit corporations and shall authorize the retail sale of beer and/or wine
coolers containing not more than 6% of alcohol by volume, either in original
containers or for consumption on or about the premises described in the
license. The annual fee for such license shall be $200, payable semiannually in
advance.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-5)
§ 3-2-9 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   A.   Class A License. The total number of all class A licenses issued and in
force at any one time in any year shall not exceed four until the total
population of the village exceeds 2,000; and thereafter, not more than one
class A license shall be issued and in force at any time in any year for each
500 or major fraction of 500 that exceeds 2,000 of such village population.
   B.   Class B License. The total number of all class B licenses issued and in
force at any one time in any year shall not exceed one until the total
population of the village exceeds 1,500, and thereafter, not more than one
class B license shall be issued and in force at any one time in any year for
each 1,500 or major fraction of 1,500 of such population.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-5) (Ord. 856, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 3-2-10 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall cause his or her license to be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-8)
§ 3-2-11 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The mayor shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued by him or her
and shall supply the village clerk a copy of the same. Upon issuance or
revocation of a license, the mayor shall give notice to the clerk within 48
hours.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-9)
§ 3-2-12 LICENSE HOLDERS IN ANNEXED LAND.
   The restrictions contained in this chapter shall in no way affect taverns
and other businesses holding retail liquor licenses, duly licensed by the
county, which are located in the territory annexed by the village. Licenses may
be issued to them or renewed by the duly constituted authorities upon
annexation; provided, that, thereafter, all of the restrictions and
contingencies contained herein shall apply.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-7)
§ 3-2-13 DISCONTINUANCE OF BUSINESS; DAMAGED OR DESTROYED BUSINESS.
   No license shall be held in existence by the mere payment of fees by the
licensee for a longer period than 90 days without a tavern or liquor business
for the same being in complete and full operation. However, if a tavern or
liquor business has been destroyed or damaged by fire or act of nature and
cannot be rebuilt or repaired within the 90-day period, then, in that event,
the mayor shall extend the period of time for which a liquor license may be
held by the payment of fees without the tavern or liquor business being in full
and complete operation for an additional 90 days. If either of the above stated
periods of time passes without the particular tavern or liquor business
returning to complete and full operation, the license for that particular
business shall expire and not be subject to renewal, unless all other
requirements of this chapter shall have been met.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-2-14 DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   A.   Established. It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor
license and/or his, her or its agents or employees to keep open or permit to be
kept open any licensed premises between and during the following described
hours or days, and the holder of a retail liquor license and/or his, her or its
agents or employees shall not sell, give, deliver or allow to be consumed on
the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor between and during the following
described hours and days:
      1.   From 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday; and
      2.   From 2:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   B.   New Year’s Day Exceptions. All persons presently possessing a valid
class A license to sell liquor in taverns within the limits of the village
shall be permitted to remain open and to sell alcoholic liquors pursuant to the
license from 12:00 a.m. December 31 until 3:00 a.m. on New Year’s Day, January
1, of each year.
   C.   Penalties. Any holder of a retail liquor license or his or her agent or
employee who violates the provisions of this section in regulating the legal
hours of operation shall, upon conviction of the first offense, be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $750; and for the second offense, be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $750; and suffer the revocation of such retail
liquor license.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-1) (Amd. 2008 Code) (Ord. 784, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 3-2-15 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Churches, Schools And Hospitals.
      1.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, other than an institution of
higher learning, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans,
their spouses or children or any military or naval station; provided, that this
prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of
alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on; nor to the renewal
of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within 100
feet of any church or school where the church or school has been established
within such 100 feet since the issuance of the original license. In the case of
a church, the distance of 100 feet shall be measured to the nearest part of any
building used for worship services or educational programs and not to property
boundaries.
      2.   Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the issuance of a license
to a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such
sales are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely
for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of
alcoholic liquors.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-2) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Zoning. It shall be unlawful to establish a retail liquor business
within the village in violation of the zoning restrictions.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-8)
   C.   Change Of Location. A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and
license. Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the mayor. No change of location shall be permitted unless the
proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
under the laws of the state and this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-3)
§ 3-2-16 HEALTH STANDARDS; SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   A.   Health Permit. Every licensee shall have, at all times, a valid
operating permit from the county health department which regulates health
standards, if necessary.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-15)
   B.   Premises. All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or
for the storage of such liquor for such sale shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition and shall be kept in full compliance with the codes
regulating the condition of the premises used for the storage or sale of food
for human consumption.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-13)
   C.   Employees. It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with or who is a
carrier of any contagious, infectious or sexually transmitted disease; and it
shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such
disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the
handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-14) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-2-17 SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee, shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years or to any intoxicated person.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-19) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-2-18 PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE YEARS OF AGE.
   A.   Sales, Providing To Prohibited. No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-19)
   B.   Purchase, Possession Or Consumption Prohibited. No person shall
purchase, accept delivery of or have possession of alcoholic liquor in
violation of this chapter. The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person
under the age of 21 years is forbidden.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-22)
   C.   Presence On Licensed Premises.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
enter any licensed premises or tavern unless accompanied by a parent or legal
guardian.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-12) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for a licensee or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent, or employee of a licensee to permit any person
under the age of 21 years to enter and remain in that portion of a licensed
premises that sells, gives or delivers alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises, unless such person is accompanied by his or her parent or legal
guardian who is of the age of 21 years or more. No prohibition under this
subsection C.2., however, shall apply to any licensed premises, such as,
without limitation, a restaurant or food shop, where selling, giving, or
delivering alcoholic liquor is not the principal business of the licensee at
those premises.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-24) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Identification.
      1.   Required. If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believe or
have reason to believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of the age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall,
before making such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of
positive identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in
the performance of his or her official duties. Proof that the defendant/
licensee, or his or her employees or agents demanded, was shown, and reasonably
relied upon such written evidence in any transaction forbidden by this chapter
is competent for or in any proceedings for the suspension or revocation of any
license based thereon.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-21)
      2.   Forged Identification, Improper Use Prohibited. No person shall
transfer, alter or deface an identification card; use the identification card
of another; carry or use a false or forged identification card; or obtain an
identification card by means of false information.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-22)
   E.   Employment. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21
years to sell, draw, pour, mix, give or deliver any alcoholic liquor in any
licensed retail premises.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-20) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   F.   Warning Posted. In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is
sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card
which shall be supplied by the village clerk and which shall read as follows:
 
WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE 21 YEARS
YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $750 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THIS MUNICIPALITY
IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
 
(1987 Code, § 21-3-24) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   G.   Exemptions. The possession and dispensing or consumption by a person
under 21 years of age of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious
service or ceremony, or the consumption by a person under 21 years of age under
the direct supervision and approval of the parent or parents or those persons
standing in loco parentis of such person under 21 years of age in the privacy
of a home is not prohibited by this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-25) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-2-19 LEWD ENTERTAINMENT.
   No licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee, shall permit or allow
any lewd or lascivious act or any topless and/or bottomless employee and/or
employees ( TOPLESS being defined as naked and substantially without clothing
or covering of the body from the waist to the neckline, and BOTTOMLESS being
defined as naked and substantially without clothing or covering of the body
from the waist downward), or entertainment to be performed within the licensed
premises by an entertainer employed therein, or by any employee or guest; nor
shall any licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee, permit or allow any
employee or guest, or any other person whomever, to solicit or encourage the
purchasing of any alcoholic liquor or beverage of any description, or the
giving of any gratuity or gift by any patron or guest to or for the benefit of
such employee or guest. The following kinds of conduct on premises in the
village licensed to sell liquor are prohibited:
   A.   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts;
   B.   The act of simulated exhibition, touching, caressing, or fondling of
the breasts, buttocks, pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
   C.   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
   D.   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to view any portion of his or her breasts,
buttocks, genitals, vulva or anus; and
   E.   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live performance
of which is prohibited by the regulations of this section.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-11)
§ 3-2-20 TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   A.   Except as provided in subsection C. below and in 235 ILCS 5/6-33, no
driver may transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the
passenger area of any motor vehicle upon a street in the village except in the
original container and with the seal unbroken.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection C. below and in 235 ILCS 5/6-33, no
passenger may carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within any passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a street in the village except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken.
   C.   This section shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when it
is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a MOTOR HOME OR MINI-MOTOR HOME as
defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-145.01. However, the driver of any such vehicle is
prohibited from consuming or having any alcoholic liquor in or about the
driver’s area. Any evidence of alcoholic consumption by the driver shall be
prima facie evidence of such driver’s failure to obey this section. For the
purposes of this section, a LIMOUSINE is a motor vehicle of the first division
with the passenger compartment enclosed by a partition or dividing window used
in the for hire transportation of passengers and operated by an individual in
possession of a valid state driver’s license of the appropriate classification
pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/6-104. The exemption applicable to chartered buses under
this subsection does not apply to any chartered bus being used for school
purposes.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-2-21 DRINKING IN PUBLIC AND ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; OPEN CONTAINERS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to drink any alcoholic liquor on any public
street, alley or sidewalk or on any other public place in the village.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-6) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   1. No licensee shall permit any person to leave the licensee’s licensed
premises with open liquor.
      2.   No person shall leave any licensed premises with open liquor.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-23)
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to do or commit any of the
following acts within the village:
      1.   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any public street, alley, sidewalk or
other public way without special permission granted by the mayor;
      2.   Drink any alcoholic liquors in any public park, except with the
permission of the mayor; and/or
(1987 Code, § 21-3-10)
      3.   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any private property without
permission of the owner or occupant thereof.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-10) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-2-22 ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED ACTS.
   A.   Misbranding Alcoholic Liquor. Any person who shall knowingly possess,
sell or in any way dispose of any alcoholic liquor under any other than the
proper name or brand known to the trade as designating the kind and quality of
the contents of the package or other containers of said alcoholic liquor, or
who shall cause any such act to be done, shall forfeit to the state or village
said alcoholic liquor and the packages and containers, and shall be subject to
the punishment and penalties provided for violation of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 21-4-5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Peddling Alcoholic Beverages. It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic
liquor in the village. (1987 Code, § 21-3-16)
   C.   Gambling. It shall be unlawful to keep, place, maintain, or operate any
gambling device or instrument in and upon the premises used or occupied as a
place where alcoholic liquor is sold or given away.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-17)
   D.   Disorderly Conduct. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any
officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee of a licensee, to
permit or allow or suffer any disorder, drunkenness, quarreling, fighting,
unlawful games, or riotous or disorderly conduct in or upon the licensed
premises. (1987 Code, § 21-3-18) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-2-23 EXAMINATIONS AND INSPECTIONS.
   A.   Examinations. The mayor shall have the right to examine or cause to be
examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for renewal thereof,
or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served
and to examine or cause to be examined the books and records of any such
applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for his information in
the performance of his or her duties; and for such purpose, to issue subpoenas,
which shall be effective in any part of the state. For the purpose of obtaining
any of the information desired by the mayor under this subsection A., he or she
may authorize his or her agent to act on his or her behalf.
(1987 Code, § 21-2-2)
   B.   Entry Powers For Inspections. It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant
admittance to the premises for which a license has been issued at any time upon
the verbal request of the mayor, chief of police, any police officer, the
zoning enforcing officer, or any member of the village board for the purpose of
making an inspection of such premises, or any part thereof.
(1987 Code, § 21-3-26) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-2-24 PERMITTING VIOLATIONS.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent, employee or
representative of such owner or person, shall knowingly permit the licensee to
use said licensed premises in violation of the terms of this chapter, said
owner, agent, employee, representative or other person shall be deemed guilty
of a violation of this chapter to the same extent as said licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(1987 Code, § 21-4-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-2-25 LIABILITY OF LICENSEE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, member, associate,
stockholder, representative, manager, agent or employee of any licensee shall
be deemed and held to be the act of such employer or licensee, and said
employer or licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if said act or
omission had been done or omitted by him or her personally.
(1987 Code, § 21-4-2) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-2-26 ENFORCEMENT POWERS OF LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The local liquor control commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses granted under this chapter, in
addition to those powers, functions and duties provided by statute.
   A.   In addition to and not limited by the specific penalties set out for
violations of specific sections of this chapter, the local liquor control
commissioner may suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for cause any
liquor license issued under this chapter for any violation of any provisions of
this chapter; or for any violation of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235
ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.; or for violation of any existing rules or regulations
established by the local liquor control commissioner or the state commission
which is not inconsistent with law; and in addition thereto, may levy a fine in
accordance with § 3-2-27.
   B.   The local liquor control commissioner may suspend or revoke any liquor
license if the licensee makes any false statement or misrepresentation in the
application for a license.
   C.   The local liquor control commissioner may enter or authorize any law
enforcing officer to enter at any time upon any premises licensed hereunder to
determine whether any of the provisions of this chapter, or the aforementioned
Liquor Control Act of 1934, or any applicable rule or regulation established by
the state commission or the local liquor control commissioner have been or are
being violated, and at such time, to examine the premises of the licensee in
connection therewith.
   D.   1.   Any citizen of the village shall have the right to file a
complaint with the local liquor control commissioner, stating that any licensee
under this chapter has been or is violating the provisions of this chapter, or
the aforementioned Liquor Control Act of 1934, or any applicable rule or
regulation established by the state commission or the local liquor control
commissioner. Such complaint shall be in writing and shall be signed and sworn
to by the citizen complaining.
      2.   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a
complaint with the local liquor control commissioner, stating that any retailer
licensee under this chapter has been or is violating the provisions of this
chapter, or the aforementioned Liquor Control Act of 1934, or any applicable
rule or regulation established by the state commission or the local liquor
control commissioner. Such complaint shall be in writing and shall be signed
and sworn to by the resident complaining.
(1987 Code, § 21-4-7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      3.   The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts, in detail, upon which
such belief is based. If the local liquor control commissioner is satisfied
that the complaint substantially charges a violation, and that from the facts
alleged, there is reasonable cause for such belief, he or she shall set the
matter for hearing, and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and
place of such hearing and of the particular charges in the complaint.
(1987 Code, § 21-4-7)
§ 3-2-27 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; NOTICE; HEARING; APPEAL.
   A.   The local liquor control commissioner may revoke or suspend any license
issued by him or her if he or she determines that the licensee has violated any
of the provisions of the state Liquor Control Act, or of this chapter, or any
applicable rule or regulation established by the local liquor control
commissioner or the state commission which is not inconsistent with law. Upon
notification by the Illinois department of revenue, the state commission, in
accordance with 235 ILCS 5/3-12, may refuse the issuance or renewal of a
license, fine a licensee, or suspend or revoke any license issued by the state
commission if the licensee or license applicant has violated the provisions of
the Retailer’s Occupation Tax Act § 3, being 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq. In addition
to the suspension, the local liquor control commissioner may levy a fine on the
licensee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for a
first violation within a 12-month period, $1,500 for a second violation within
a 12-month period, and $2,500 for a third or subsequent violation within a 12-
month period. Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation. Not more than $15,000 in fines under this section may be
imposed against any licensee during the period of his license. Proceeds from
such fines shall be paid into the general corporate fund of the village
treasury.
   B.   However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the local liquor
control commissioner with a three-day written notice to the licensee affording
the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings shall be
open to the public, and the local liquor control commissioner shall reduce all
evidence to writing and shall maintain an official record of the proceedings.
If the local liquor control commissioner has reason to believe that any
continued operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten
the welfare of the community, he or she may, upon the issuance of a written
order stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing,
order the licensed premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the
licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period; except, that if such
licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses
on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other
business or businesses.
   C.   The local liquor control commissioner shall, within five days after
such hearing, if he or she determines after such hearing that the license
should be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the
reason or reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the
amount of the fine, the period of suspension, or that the license has been
revoked, and shall serve a copy of such order within the five days upon the
licensee.
   D.   The service of any notice of a hearing regarding the suspension or
revocation of a liquor license may be made by leaving a copy of such notice at
the place of business of such licensee with some person over the age of 15
years, and informing such person of the contents of such notice. The return of
the county sheriff as to the manner of service shall be sufficient.
   E.   On the day set for the hearing, if such licensee does not appear at the
time and place designated in such notice, the local liquor control commissioner
may proceed to hear said case the same as if the licensee was present and to
render a decision on the merits of the case.
(1987 Code, § 21-4-8) (Amd. 2008 Code)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 35 ILCS 120/3
§ 3-2-28 FORFEITURE OF LICENSE FEES.
   Whenever any liquor license has been suspended or revoked, all license fees
paid thereon shall be forfeited, and it shall thereafter be unlawful and shall
constitute a further violation of this chapter for said licensee to continue to
operate under such suspended or revoked license.
(1987 Code, § 21-4-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-2-29 VIOLATIONS; PREMISES DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   Every lot, parcel or tract of land, and every building, structure, tent,
railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle, establishment or place whatsoever, together
with all furniture, fixtures, ornaments and machinery located thereon, wherein
there shall be conducted any unlawful sale of any alcoholic liquor, or whereon
or wherein there shall be kept, stored, concealed or allowed any alcoholic
liquor intended for illegal sale or to be sold, disposed of or in any other
manner used in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided by the laws of
the state for the abatement of public nuisances.
(1987 Code, § 21-4-6)
§ 3-2-30 PENALTY.
   In addition to any other penalties and/or fines otherwise provided herein,
any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in §
1-4-1.
(1987 Code, § 21-4-9) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3: COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
   
3-3-1   Definitions
   
3-3-2   License Required; Sticker Displayed
   
3-3-3   Application For License
   
3-3-4   License Fee
   
3-3-5   Change Of Location; Nontransferability Of License
   
3-3-6   Display Of License
   
3-3-7   Placement Of Devices
   
3-3-8   Days And Hours Of Operation; Exemptions
   
3-3-9   Prohibited Acts And Conditions
   
3-3-10   Inspections
§ 3-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any amusement machine or device operated by
means of the insertion of a coin, token or currency for the purpose of
amusement or skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged. The term
includes, but is not limited to, electronic video games, pinball machines, pool
or billiard tables or other similar games. The term does not include vending
machines in which are not incorporated gaming or amusement features, and the
term does not include jukeboxes. The term COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE or
DEVICE or MACHINE or LICENSED DEVICE shall not include any VIDEO GAMING
TERMINAL in any LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT or in any LICENSED FRATERNAL
ESTABLISHMENT or in any LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT or in any LICENSED
TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT as those terms are defined or are incorporated by
reference in chapter 7 of title 3 of the this code.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or club
who sets up for the operation by another, or leases, or distributes for the
purpose of operation by another, any devices herein defined, whether such
setting up for operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or
rental, or on the basis of a division of the income derived from such device,
or otherwise.
   PROPRIETOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or a
club, who, as the owner, lessee, or proprietor, has under his, her or its
control any establishment, place or premises in or at which such device is
placed or kept for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of such use or
play.
(1987 Code, § 7-4-1) (Ord. 790, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 3-3-2 LICENSE REQUIRED; STICKER DISPLAYED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of an operator
of coin-operated amusement devices or pool or billiard tables within the
corporate limits of the village without first having obtained the proper
license therefor. The license shall display a sticker provided by the village
indicating the number of coin-operated amusement devices or pool or billiard
tables permitted under the license.
(1987 Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 3-3-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for license shall be verified by oath or affidavit and shall
contain the following information:
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; and in the case of a copartnership, of the persons entitled to
share in the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the stock of
such corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominees, the name and
address of such person;
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, or if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   C.   The address of the place where the applicant proposes to operate;
   D.   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application for
similar license on premises other than those described in the application and
the disposition of such application;
   E.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive the license under this section; and
   F.   The number of coin-operated amusement devices or pool or billiard
tables to be located on the business premises.
(1987 Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 3-3-4 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee, effective January 1, 1986, for such license shall be $25 per
year for each coin-operated amusement device or pool or billiard table set up
for operation, leased or distributed to a proprietor.
(1987 Code, § 7-4-5)
§ 3-3-5 CHANGE OF LOCATION; NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE.
   The location of a license may be changed only upon the written permission of
the mayor. Any license issued hereunder shall be nonassignable and
nontransferable.
(1987 Code, § 7-4-6)
§ 3-3-6 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall frame and hang his or her license in a conspicuous
place in the licensed premises.
(1987 Code, § 7-4-8)
§ 3-3-7 PLACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   All licensed devices shall, at all times, be kept and placed in plain view
of any person or persons who may frequent or be in any place of business where
such devices are kept or used.
(1987 Code, § 7-4-7)
§ 3-3-8 DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION; EXEMPTIONS.
   No establishment operating under a license issued under this chapter shall
be open for use of any such devices between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m. on any day or between 12:00 a.m. Saturday and 12:00 p.m. the following
Sunday. All holders of liquor licenses are exempt from the hours in this
section.
(1987 Code, § 7-4-10)
§ 3-3-9 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   A.   Gambling. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize,
permit or license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever.
   B.   Prizes. It shall be unlawful for any person receiving a license
pursuant to this chapter to give or award a cash prize or equivalent to any
person playing any of the tables, devices or machines enumerated herein under
tournament, league or any other individual or competitive play.
(1987 Code, § 7-4-7)
   C.   Minors On Premises Of Establishments Selling Liquor. It shall be
unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation having a license from the
village to keep a billiard or pool table or any other table or pin or bowling
alley or any coin-operated amusement device or any other device mentioned or
referred to in § 3-3-1 in connection with any business in which alcoholic
liquor is sold or served, to suffer or permit any person under the age of 21
years to play any games upon any such table, alley or device or to frequent,
remain or be harbored in or about such place of business unless such person or
persons under the age of 21 years are accompanied by a parent or guardian. A
violation of this subsection C. shall result in a penalty fine as provided in §
1-4-1  for each offense.
(1987 Code, § 7-4-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-3-10 INSPECTIONS.
   The chief of police has the power to and shall inspect any place, building
or premises in which any licensed device or devices are operated or set up for
operation at such times and intervals as he or she may deem necessary for the
proper enforcement of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-4-9)
CHAPTER 4: RAFFLES
Section
   
3-4-1   Definitions
   
3-4-2   License And Compliance Required
   
3-4-3   Qualifications Of Licensee; Ineligibility For License
   
3-4-4   Application For License; Fee; Issuance Or Denial; Revocation Or
Suspension
   
3-4-5   Contents Of License
   
3-4-6   Limitations On Raffles
   
3-4-7   Raffles Manager; Bond
   
3-4-8   Records And Reports
   
3-4-9   Penalty
§ 3-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The village adopts and incorporates herein definitions of NET PROCEEDS and
RAFFLE as set forth in the Raffle and Poker Runs Act, 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-1)
§ 3-4-2 LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   A.   No person, firm or organization shall conduct raffles or chances within
the corporate limits of the village, except in accordance with this chapter and
only after an organization herein defined has first obtained a license issued
in accordance with this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-2)
   B.   All licenses issued are subject to all terms and provisions as set
forth in the Raffle and Poker Runs Act, 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
 
§ 3-4-3 QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE; INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE.
   A.   Licenses shall be issued only to qualified bona fide religious,
charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans organizations
that operate without profit to their members, and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years immediately before making application
for a license, and which have had, during that entire five-year period, a bona
fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects; or to a nonprofit
fundraising organization that the village board of trustees determines is
organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an
identified individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial
hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident or disaster. The
village hereby adopts and incorporates the definitions of such organizations as
set forth in the Raffle and Poker Runs Act, 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-2)
   B.   The following persons and/or groups are ineligible for any license to
conduct a raffle:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is, or has been, a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsections
B.1. through B.3. above has proprietary, equitable or credit interest or in
which such a person is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections B.1.
through B.3. above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not; and
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections B.1.
through B.3. above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle
as defined in this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-5)
§ 3-4-4 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL; REVOCATION OR
SUSPENSION.
   Written application for a raffle license shall be completed and signed in
the form which may be approved by the village board of trustees from time to
time. A fee of $1 shall be paid by the licensee prior to issuance of such
license. This license shall be valid for one raffle, or for a specified number
of raffles, to be conducted during a specified period not to exceed one year,
and may be suspended or revoked by the village board of trustees for any
violation of the Raffle and Poker Runs Act or this chapter. The village board
of trustees shall act on a license application within 30 days from the date of
the receipt of said application. The village clerk is hereby authorized to
issue such a license if the village president finds such application is in
accordance with this chapter and such application is approved by the village
president. The village clerk shall present a report to the village board of
trustees each month listing all licenses issued hereunder for the preceding
month, if any. Such license may be refused to an organization that has
previously violated any provision of this chapter after having been granted a
license under this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-3)
§ 3-4-5 CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   The application and license shall specify the area or areas within the
village in which raffle chances will be sold or issued and the time period
during which raffle chances will be sold or issued, and shall state the time of
determination of winning chances and the location or locations at which the
winning chances will be determined.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-4)
§ 3-4-6 LIMITATIONS ON RAFFLES.
   A.   Prizes, Merchandise And Chances.
      1.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed $50,000.
      2.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $50,000.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-4)
      3.   The maximum price which may be charged for each chance issued or
sold shall not exceed $500.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      4.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed 365.
      5.   All licenses issued hereunder shall only authorize the sale of
raffle chances within the corporate limits of the village.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-4)
   B.   Conduct Of Raffle. The conducting of raffles is subject to the
following restrictions.
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct the game.
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle.
      4.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter.
      5.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license, and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
      6.   A person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances only with the permission of his or her parent or
guardian. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the area where
winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or her parent
or guardian.
      7.   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance or chances are
determined, the lessor shall not be liable to prosecution for violation of this
chapter if the person who uses the premises for the determining of winning
chances does not hold a license issued by the village under the provisions of
this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-6)
§ 3-4-7 RAFFLES MANAGER; BOND.
   A.   All operations of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the
supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the licensed
organization. The manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of $1,000, or
in the sum of the aggregate retail value of all prizes and merchandise awarded
by a licensee in the raffle, whichever is greater, in favor of the
organization, conditioned upon his or her honesty in the performance of his or
her duties.
   B.    Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing
to the village board of trustees not less than 30 days prior to any
cancellation. The village board of trustees may waive this bond requirement,
including a waiver provision in the license issued to the organization;
provided, that such license containing such waiver provision shall be granted
only by unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-7)
§ 3-4-8 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   A.   Records Kept.
      1.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
      2.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the state department of revenue, and
placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records of
its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from the operation shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenue of the organization.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-8)
   B.   Reports Required. Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall
report promptly after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership and,
within 30 days, to the village board of trustees, its gross receipts, expenses,
net proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as
required in this section.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-8) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Preservation Of Records. Records required by this section shall be
preserved for three years, and organizations shall make available their records
relating to the operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times
and places.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-8)
§ 3-4-9 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, for each offense, be punished as provided in §
1-4-1 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 7-5-9)
CHAPTER 5: PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
Section
   
3-5-1   Definitions
   
3-5-2   License, Certificate And Compliance Required; Items Restricted
   
3-5-3   Applications For Licenses
   
3-5-4   License Fees And Term
   
3-5-5   Bond Waived
   
3-5-6   Possession, Display Of License
   
3-5-7   Prohibited Acts And Conditions
   
3-5-8   Receipts For Purchase Of New And Unused Property
   
3-5-9   Zoning
   
3-5-10   Revocation Of Licenses
   
3-5-11   Failure To Obtain License; Inventory Held
   
3-5-12   Penalty
§ 3-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLEA MARKET. Any location, other than a permanent retail store, at which
space is rented or otherwise made available to others for conduct of business
as a transient merchant or itinerant vendor.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person who transports tangible personal property for
retail sale within the village and who does not maintain in the village an
established office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse, service center,
or residence from which such business is conducted, it shall be prima facie
evidence that a person is an ITINERANT VENDOR if the person does not transact
business from a fixed location or if the person does not own, or lease for a
term of at least six months, the property from which business is conducted.
However, the term ITINERANT VENDOR shall not include any of the following
persons:
      1.   Any person who delivers tangible personal property within the
village who is fulfilling an order for such property which was solicited or
placed by mail, phone, fax, e-mail or other similar communication means; and
      2.   A peddler.
   NEW AND UNUSED PROPERTY. Tangible property that is acquired in the ordinary
course of business by the unused property merchant directly from the producer,
manufacturer, wholesaler or retailer, that has not been used since its
production or manufacture or is in its original and unopened package when
originally produced or manufactured.
   PEDDLER. Any person who is engaged in the retail or wholesale sale of goods,
wares, merchandise, services, or real or personal property of any kind, nature,
or extent whatsoever, or who is engaged in soliciting funds or contributions
and who, for the purpose of conducting any such business, travels on foot or in
any vehicle from house to house or from place to place within the village or on
village owned property. However, the term PEDDLER shall not include any of the
following persons:
      1.   Farmers, fruit growers and gardeners who sell the produce of their
farm, orchard or vineyard;
      2.   Persons who make sales presentations pursuant to and after making
previously scheduled appointment(s) or arrangement(s) with the owner or legal
occupants of the premises;
      3.   Sellers or deliverers of newspapers;
      4.   Persons who, without receiving any compensation for their services,
sell or solicit for any civic, patriotic, fraternal, educational, religious or
benevolent organization, provided such organization is recognized as a tax
exempt organization under the federal internal revenue service laws, rules and
regulations;
      5.   Any political candidate and/or persons who solicit support for
ideas, votes or financial contributions for any political candidate.
      6.   Persons who are not engaged in the sale of any goods, wares, or
merchandise or solicit funds or financial contributions but solely convey or
solicit ideas to or from any owner or occupant of property; and
      7.   Any person who conveys religious messages or ideas or doorstep
proselytizing to the owner(s) or occupant(s) of any property.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, firm, association,
or other entity.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person who is engaged temporarily in the retail sale
of goods, wares or merchandise in the village and who, for the purpose of
conducting such business, occupies any building, room, vehicle, structure of
any kind or vacant lot. It shall be prima facie evidence that a person is a
TRANSIENT MERCHANT if the person does not transact business from a fixed
location or if the person does not own, or lease for a term of at least six
months, the property from which business is conducted. However, the term
TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not include any of the following persons:
      1.   Any person selling goods, wares or merchandise which is raised,
produced or manufactured by him or her;
      2.   Any person selling vegetables, fruits, or perishable farm products
at an established village market;
      3.   Any person operating a stand or booth on or adjacent to property
owned by him or her or upon which he or she resides;
      4.   Any person operating a stand or booth at a trade show, exposition,
convention or similar event; and
      5.   Any person selling any goods, wares or merchandise at a special
event sponsored by any recognized not for profit charitable, civic, patriotic,
fraternal, educational or religious organization.
   VILLAGE. The village of Edinburg, in Christian County, Illinois, a municipal
corporation.
(1987 Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 3-5-2 LICENSE, CERTIFICATE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; ITEMS RESTRICTED.
   It is unlawful for any person, either as principal or agent, to conduct
business as a peddler, transient merchant or itinerant vendor within the
village without first complying with the requirements of the Retailers’
Occupation Tax Act § 2(a), being 35 ILCS 120/2(a), by obtaining a certificate
of registration and without first having obtained the appropriate license from
the village police department under this chapter. No license shall be issued to
any peddler, transient merchant, or itinerant vendor to engage in business
involving any meats, fish or poultry of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever
unless such peddler, transient merchant or itinerant vendor possesses the
necessary and current licenses or permits from all federal, state, or local
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the handling, sale or delivery of
such items. It is unlawful for any peddler, transient merchant or itinerant
vendor to engage in any business involving any meats, fish or poultry of any
kind, nature or extent whatsoever within the village without the necessary
licenses or permits from all such federal, state or local regulatory agencies.
(1987 Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 3-5-3 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   A.   Peddlers. Any person who wishes to obtain a license as a peddler shall
file a written license application with the village police department on a form
approved by the village chief of police from time to time, and such application
shall set forth the following information, and the applicant shall provide the
following documents:
      1.   The applicant’s name, permanent business address (which must include
a street address), and phone number, and residence address and phone number of
the principal (and if the applicant is a corporation, the residence addresses
and phone numbers of its officers); the names, addresses and telephone numbers
of all persons who will engage in the business pursuant to the license to be
granted;
      2.   The nature of the business the applicant intends to conduct and a
description of the goods, wares, merchandise, services and property intended to
be sold or solicited under the issued license;
      3.   The specific dates, days of the week, and times during which such
business is desired to be conducted under the issued license. No one peddler
license shall be issued for any longer period than 25 days within a 30-
consecutive-day period. Any subsequent written application(s) by the same
peddler for another peddler license must be submitted with the requisite fees
and be in compliance with this subsection A.;
      4.   The current name, business address, and telephone numbers of the
applicant’s employer or contractor, if any;
      5.   For all peddlers who intend to sell tangible personal property, a
copy of the applicant’s certificate of registration under the Retailers’
Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq., and the applicant’s state
business registration number issued by the state department of revenue, and all
other evidence to the satisfaction of the village police department that sales
of tangible personal property made within the village will be reported as
taxable sales within the village to the state department of revenue;
      6.   Current photo identification of the applicant and for each person
who will be engaged in the business under the license to be granted; and
      7.   The license plate number, model, make, year and color of any vehicle
that will be used while engaged in business.
(1987 Code, § 7-2-3)
   B.   Transient Merchants And Itinerant Vendors. Any person who wishes to
obtain a license as a transient merchant or itinerant vendor shall file a
written license application with the village police department on a form
approved the village chief of police from time to time, and such application
shall set forth the following information, and the applicant shall provide the
following documents:
      1.   The applicant’s name, permanent business address (which must include
a street address), and phone number, and residence address and phone number of
the principal (and if the applicant is a corporation, the residence addresses
and phone numbers of its officers);
      2.   The location in the village at which the applicant intends to do
business and the specific dates, days of the week, and times during which such
business will be conducted. In the case of a transient merchant, the
application shall also include the specific location and address in the village
from which the business of a transient merchant will be conducted during the
transient merchant license period applied for and shall identify the legal
names of all owners of such location from which the business of a transient
merchant will be conducted. Such applicant shall further submit a written lease
or other written evidence of the applicant’s authorization to conduct the
business of a transient merchant upon such property during all such times
applied for;
      3.   The nature of the business the applicant intends to conduct;
      4.   For all transient merchants or itinerant vendors who intend to sell
tangible personal property within the village, a copy of the applicant’s
certificate of registration under the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, being 35
ILCS 120/1 et seq., and the applicant’s state business registration number
issued by the state department of revenue, and all other evidence to the
satisfaction of the village police department that sales of tangible personal
property made within the village will be reported as taxable sales within the
village to the state department of revenue;
      5.   A complete inventory of the goods the applicant intends to offer for
sale;
      6.   A list of all licenses to conduct business as a transient merchant
or an itinerant vendor obtained by the applicant in the state in the 12 months
preceding the date of filing of the application;
      7.   Current photo identification of the applicant and for each person
who will be engaged in the business under the license to be granted; and
      8.   The license plate number, model, make, year and color of any vehicle
that will be used while engaged in business.
(1987 Code, § 7-2-4)
   C.   Forms. The forms are as follows.
 
PEDDLER APPLICATION
 
__________
Date
 
________________________________      _______________________
Name                           SS#
 
________________________________      _______________________
Permanent Address                     DL#
 
_______________________________________________________________
Name, Address, And Type of Business (Item being sold)
 
________________________________      ________________________
Business Phone                  Personal Phone
 
_______________________________________________________________
Name, Address and Phone of Immediate Supervisor
 
________________________________            YES      NO
Length of time Employed by above firm      ___________________________
Driver’s Licensed Attached
 
___________________         __________         ___________________
Birth Date of Applicant         Marital Status      Name of Spouse
 
_____      ______      _________      ___________
Height      Weight      Hair Color      Eye Color
 
______________________________________________________________________
Municipality where applicant carried on business immediately preceding application.
 
______________________________________________________________________
Municipality where applicant carried on business immediately preceding application.
 
______________________________________________________________________
Municipality where applicant carried on business immediately preceding application.
 
Has Certificate of Registration under this Code ever been revoked?
 
_________   _________
Yes         No
 
Has Applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of
the State of Illinois or any other state or federal law of the United States?
 
__________   _________
(Place details on back)   Yes      No
 
 
TRANSIENT VENDOR AND ITINERANT MERCHANT APPLICATION
 
__________
Date
 
________________________________      _______________________
Name                           SS#
 
________________________________      _______________________
Permanent Address                     DL#
 
_______________________________________________________________
Name, Address, And Type of Business (Item being sold)
 
________________________________      ________________________
Business Phone                  Personal Phone
 
_______________________________________________________________
Name, Address and Phone of Immediate Supervisor
 
________________________________            YES      NO
Length of time Employed by above firm         ___________________________
Driver’s Licensed Attached
 
___________________         __________         ___________________
Birth Date of Applicant         Marital Status      Name of Spouse
 
_____      ______      _________      ___________
Height      Weight      Hair Color      Eye Color
 
_________________________________________________________________________
Prior employer in the past three years.
 
_________________________________________________________________________
Prior employer in the past three years.
 
_________________________________________________________________________
Prior employer in the past three years.
 
Has Certificate of Registration under this Code ever been revoked?
 
_________   _________
Yes         No
 
Has Applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of
the State of Illinois or any other state or federal law of the United States?
 
__________   _________
(Place details on back)   Yes      No
 
(1987 Code, Ch. 7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-5-4 LICENSE FEES AND TERM.
   A.   At the time of submittal of the application, the applicant for a
transient merchant license or an itinerant vendor license shall pay in advance
to the village’s police department a fee of $25 per day, or any part thereof,
to conduct business within the village; provided, however, if the license
application requests a period of four days or more in the same calendar year,
then such license fee shall be a total of $100 for such calendar year. Any such
license shall expire on December 31 of the calendar year it was issued.
   B.   At the time of submittal of such application, the applicant for a
peddler license shall pay in advance to the village’s police department a fee
of $25 per person, per day, or any part thereof, to conduct business within the
village. It is unlawful for any peddler to engage in business during any day
the $25 per person fee has not been paid. A peddler license shall only remain
effective for the number of days such per diem fee was paid in advance.
However, pursuant to 215 ILCS 5/415, the aforesaid $25 per day per person fees
for a peddler’s license shall not apply to insurance salesperson or agents who
are employed by or are an agent of an insurance company legally authorized to
conduct business in the state and provided such insurance company is subject to
the fees, charges, and taxes provided for under the state insurance code.
Nonetheless, such insurance salesperson or agents whose business activities
include that of a PEDDLER, as defined in this chapter, remain obligated and
shall apply for and obtain a peddler’s license in accordance with this chapter
prior to engaging in such business within the village.
   C.   All such fees collected by the village’s police department shall be
delivered to the village’s treasurer for the general account of the village.
(Ord. 725, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 3-5-5 BOND WAIVED.
   The village waives any requirement of posting a surety bond or cash deposit
by any applicant for a peddler’s, transient merchant’s or itinerant vendor’s
license.
(1987 Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 3-5-6 POSSESSION, DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall have the license issued under this chapter in the
licensee’s personal possession while in the village conducting business under
such issued license, and a licensee shall immediately show such issued license
to any and all persons contacted by the licensee, and to any and all village
law enforcement officers who request, from time to time, to see such issued
license.
(1987 Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 3-5-7 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   A.   Business And Location. It is unlawful for any peddler, transient
merchant or itinerant vendor to engage in any business activity or at any
location that is not identified and authorized in the applicable peddler’s,
transient merchant’s or itinerant vendor’s license issued under this chapter.
   B.   Doing Business Near Schools. It is unlawful for any licensee, while
engaged in business activities of a peddler, transient merchant or itinerant
vendor, to park any vehicle or stand within 200 feet of any playground or
school property during the time that organized recreational or school
activities are in progress or in session.
   C.   Stationary Vehicle. It is unlawful for a peddler, transient merchant or
itinerant vendor to engage in the business of a peddler, transient merchant, or
itinerant vendor, from any stationary vehicle on any village owned property or
from any stationary vehicle that is located on any property zoned with a
residential classification under the village zoning regulations.
   D.   Hours.
      1.   It is unlawful for a peddler to engage in the business of a peddler
within the village prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. on any day, or at any
time on Sunday.
      2.   It is unlawful for a transient merchant to engage in the business of
a transient merchant prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m. on any day.
      3.   It is unlawful for an itinerant vendor to engage in the business of
an itinerant vendor prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m. on any day.
   E.   Uninvited Peddling.
      1.   It is unlawful for any peddler to engage in business of a peddler at
any residence within the village where there is displayed upon or near the
entrance of such residence a sign or notice which has words thereon indicating
solicitors or peddlers are not wanted or invited, such as: “NO SOLICITORS
INVITED” or “NO PEDDLERS INVITED” or words to the same effect.
      2.   It is unlawful for a peddler to remain at any residence or place
within the village after being asked by an owner or legal occupant of such
residence or place to leave.
   F.   Additional Prohibitions For Transient Merchants And Itinerant Vendors.
      1.   It is unlawful for a transient merchant to conduct any business
activities of a transient merchant on any village owned property or on any
property within the village that has a residential zoning classification under
the village zoning regulations.
      2.   It is unlawful for any transient merchant or itinerant vendor at a
flea market to sell, offer for sale, or knowingly permit the sale of baby food,
infant formula, or similar products, or any pharmaceuticals, over the counter
drugs, cosmetics, or medical devices. This subsection F.2. does not apply to a
person who keeps available for public inspection an identification card
identifying him or her as an authorized representative of the manufacturer or
distributor of any pharmaceuticals, over the counter drugs, cosmetics or
medical devices, as along as such card is not false, fraudulent or fraudulently
obtained.
(1987 Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 3-5-8 RECEIPTS FOR PURCHASE OF NEW AND UNUSED PROPERTY.
   A.   An unused property merchant must maintain receipts for the purchase of
new and unused property purchased or acquired on or after the effective date
hereof. The receipts must contain the following information:
      1.   The date of the transaction;
      2.   The name and address of the person, corporation or entity from whom
the new and unused property was acquired;
      3.   An identification and description of the new and unused property
acquired;
      4.   The price paid for the new and unused property; and
      5.   The signature of the seller and buyer of the new and unused
property.
   B.   It is a violation of this section for an unused property merchant
required to maintain receipts under the provisions of this section to
knowingly:
      1.   Falsify, obliterate or destroy the receipts;
      2.   Refuse or fail to make the receipts available for inspection upon
request within a period of time that is reasonable under the individual
circumstances surrounding the request; however, the unused property merchant is
not required to possess the receipt on or about his or her person without
reasonable notice; or
      3.   Fail to maintain the receipts required by this section for at least
two years.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following:
      1.   The sale of a motor vehicle or trailer that is required to be
registered or is subject to the certificate of title laws of the state;
      2.   The sale of livestock, ice or wood for fuel;
      3.   Business conducted in any industry or association trade show;
      4.   Property, although never used, whose style, packaging or material
clearly indicates that the property was not produced or manufactured recently;
      5.   A person who sells by sample, catalog or brochure for future
delivery;
      6.   The sale of arts or crafts or other merchandise by the person who
produced those arts or crafts or other merchandise or by a person or persons
acting on his or her behalf; or
      7.   A person who makes sales presentations pursuant to a prior,
individualized invitation issued to the consumer by the owner or legal occupant
of the premises.
(1987 Code, § 7-2-9)
§ 3-5-9 ZONING.
   The fact that any person may be determined exempt from this chapter does not
authorize such person to conduct any business or activities at any location
within the village where it is prohibited under the village then existing
zoning regulations.
(1987 Code, § 7-2-10)
§ 3-5-10 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   A.   At his or her sole discretion, the village chief of police and/or his
or her designee may revoke the license issued by the village police department
to any peddler, transient merchant, or itinerant vendor under any of the
following circumstances:
      1.   After review of any one or more complaints regarding the adverse
behavior of any licensee, or any of the licensee’s employees or agents, towards
any person(s); or if any licensee, or any of the licensee’s employees or
agents, engages in any unethical practices while engaging in any business
activities;
      2.   If any licensee, or any of the licensee’s employees or agents,
provides any false or misleading information to any person(s) while engaging in
any business activities; and
      3.   If two or more complaints are received on the behavior of any one or
more licensed persons engaged in business for the same person.
   B.   The village chief of police shall revoke the license of any licensee
under any of the following circumstances:
      1.   If it is determined that the licensee made any false material
statement in the licensee’s application for a license;
      2.   If the licensee, or any of the employees or agents of the licensee,
violates any of the provisions of this chapter; and
      3.   If the state business registration number issued by the state
department of revenue to the licensee is revoked or suspended.
   C.   If a license is revoked, then such person whose license was revoked
shall not be entitled to apply for another license for a period of 365 days
from the date of such revocation.
(1987 Code, § 7-2-7)
§ 3-5-11 FAILURE TO OBTAIN LICENSE; INVENTORY HELD.
   A.   If any person makes retail sales as a peddler, transient merchant or
itinerant vendor without having obtained a license under this chapter, the
village police department may hold the inventory, truck or other personal
property of the person until such person obtains a license under this chapter
to conduct business as a peddler, transient merchant or itinerant vendor in the
village.
   B.   If the property has been held by the village police department for more
than 60 days and the person whose property is being held has not obtained a
license under this chapter, the village police department or the village may
petition the circuit court for an order for the sale of the property being
held.
   C.   If the circuit court finds that the person whose property is held has
not obtained a license under this chapter, the circuit court may order the
village police department or the village to sell property. Proceeds of the sale
of the property, less reimbursement to the village police department of the
reasonable expenses of storage and sale of the property, shall be deposited
with the village treasurer. (1987 Code, § 7-2-8)
§ 3-5-12 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision(s) of this chapter shall, for each
offense, be punished and/or fined as provided in §
1-4-1 of this code, and a separate offense shall be deemed to occur on each day
any such violation occurs or continues.
(1987 Code, § 7-2-11)
CHAPTER 6: CABLE TELEVISION CODE
Section
   
3-6-1   Title
   
3-6-2   Definitions
   
3-6-3   Grant Of Authority
   
3-6-4   Lease Of Poles And Facilities; Underground Services
   
3-6-5   Right-Of-Way Occupancy
   
3-6-6   Construction Specifications
   
3-6-7   Assignment Of Franchise
   
3-6-8   Indemnification And Insurance
   
3-6-9   Performance Bond
   
3-6-10   Rates And Charges
   
3-6-11   Procedures
   
3-6-12   Service Protection
   
3-6-13   Complaint Investigation And Resolution Procedure
   
3-6-14   Customer Contracts
   
3-6-15   Time For Beginning And Completion Of Construction
   
3-6-16   Extent And Time Of Required Service
   
3-6-17   Franchise Fee
   
3-6-18   System And Service
   
3-6-19   Safety Conditions And Police Power
   
3-6-20   Term Of Franchise; Extension
   
3-6-21   Ownership Disclosure
   
3-6-22   Periodic Review
   
3-6-23   Default And Forfeiture
   
3-6-24   FCC Rules
   
3-6-25   Amendments
   
3-6-26   Limitations Of Franchise
   
3-6-27   Correspondence
§ 3-6-1 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Cable Television Code.”
(1987 Code, § 10-1-1)
§ 3-6-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word SHALL is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   ANCILLARY SERVICE(S). Any other signals transmitted on the system which the
company offers for consumption by the subscribers. The company shall have the
right to sell the ANCILLARY SERVICE(S) at a monthly charge which is in addition
to the charge for basic cable service.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. The primary service transmitted on the cable system.
   COMPANY. The grantees of rights under this chapter awarding a franchise and
are known as MediaCom Corporation, Consolidated Communication and any other
cable franchisee.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   RESIDENT. Any person whose place of abode or business is located within the
corporate limits of the village.
   SYSTEM. The entire cable distribution installation located in the village.
   VILLAGE. The village of Edinburg in the state of Illinois.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-2) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-6-3 GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   In consideration of the faithful performance and observance of the
conditions and reservations herein specified, MediaCom Corporation,
Consolidated Communication and any other cable franchisee, hereinafter referred
to as the “company,” their successors and assigns, are hereby granted the
nonexclusive right to erect, maintain and operate television transmission and
distribution facilities and additions thereto (and other electronic facilities)
in, under, over, along, across and upon the streets, avenues, sidewalks, alleys
and other public places in the village, and subsequent additions to the
village, including easements for sewers owned by the village, for the purpose
of transmission and distribution of television and radio programs, and various
communications and other electronic services, in accordance with the laws and
regulations of the United States of America, the state and this chapter, for
the period of 15 years from and after the effective date hereof, unless sooner
terminated as herein provided.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-6-4 LEASE OF POLES AND FACILITIES; UNDERGROUND SERVICES.
   A.   Lease Of Poles And Facilities. The poles used for the company’s
distribution system shall be those erected and maintained by the public
utilities providing telephone and electric service. Whenever possible, it shall
be the sole responsibility of the company to negotiate rental agreements with
the utilities to secure the necessary space on the poles for its operation
under this franchise. Where the use of poles owned by the utilities are not
practicable or mutually satisfactory rental agreements cannot be entered into
with the public utilities following a good faith effort on the part of the
company to obtain such agreements, the company may erect poles where necessary,
but only after the location of such pole(s) has been approved by the village’s
authorized agent.
   B.   Underground Services.
      1.   Where poles are not available for attachment by the company, the
company shall have the right to install underground lines in the manner
provided in subsection B.2. below. The erection of poles and the installation
of underground cables shall be subject to all existing and hereafter enacted
ordinances and regulations of the village applicable thereto. The company shall
obtain, at its own expense, all right-of-way permits or easements from any
governing, village, city, county, state or federal agency. (1987 Code, § 10-1-
4)
      2.   Where the telephone service and electric service are both
underground, the company shall install its distribution system in the same
underground fashion; provided, that the company shall, at its own expense,
properly backfill any excavation made from the line and restore the surface of
the ground to a condition reasonably equal with its condition prior to such
excavation to subsequently correct by additional backfilling or settlement of
such excavation for a period not to exceed one year.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-5)
§ 3-6-5 RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   A.   Minimum Interference. The company’s transmission and distribution
system, poles, wires, cables and appurtenances shall be located, erected and
maintained so as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of streets,
alleys and other public ways and places, and to cause minimum interference with
the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the
streets, alleys or other public ways and places, and not to interfere with
improvements the village may deem proper to make.
   B.   Restoration. In case of the disturbance of any pavement, sidewalk,
driveway or other surfacing, the company shall, at its own cost, expense, and
in a manner approved by the village’s authorized agent, replace and restore all
paving, sidewalk, driveway or surface of any street or alley disturbed in as
good a condition as before the work was commenced.
   C.   Relocation. In the event that at any time during the period of this
franchise or any extension thereof, the village, by reason of the construction
of public facilities, traffic conditions, public safety or street vacation,
shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any street, alley or
public way, requiring the removing or relocation of any of the facilities of
the company, the company shall, upon reasonable notice by the village, remove
and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits and other fixtures
at its own expense.
   D.   Temporary Removal Of Wire For Building Or Moving. The company shall,
upon the request of any person holding an appropriate permit issued by the
village, temporarily remove, raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of
buildings. The expense of such temporary removal, raising or lowering of the
wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the company shall
have the authority to request such payment in advance.
   E.   Tree Trimming. The company shall have the authority to trim trees upon
and overhanging the streets, alleys, sidewalks and public places of the village
so as to prevent the branches of such trees (from interfering with the wires
and cables of the company. All trimming shall be done with prior notification
of the village and at the expense of the company.
   F.   Standards Of Work. All work done by the company shall be performed by
qualified personnel in a good and workmanlike manner, including service drops
and house attachments, and all equipment shall be in accordance with good
engineering practices.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-6)
§ 3-6-6 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   All construction of the company, including installation and maintenance of
its transmission and distribution system, shall be in accordance with the
provisions of the national electric safety code, the statutes of the state, and
all applicable existing or hereafter enacted ordinances of the village. The
company shall provide the village’s authorized agent with a map designating the
location of cable television transmission and distribution facilities prior to
construction, and the installation of all company wires and cables, whether on
poles owned by the village, any other public utility or the company, or
underground, shall require approval by the village’s authorized agent.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-7)
§ 3-6-7 ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   The company shall not sell, lease or transfer its plant or system to
another, or transfer or assign any rights under this franchise to another
without the prior written consent of the corporate authorities of the village,
and no such sale or transfer shall be effective until the vendee, assignee or
lessee has filed in the office of the village clerk a statement, duly executed,
reciting the fact of such sale, assignment or lease, accepting the terms of the
franchise and agreeing to perform all the conditions thereof. Consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-8) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-6-8 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   A.   Indemnification. The company, by its acceptance of this franchise,
expressly agrees to and shall defend, hold harmless and indemnify the village
from any and all liability, loss, damage, claims, demands, suits or actions, in
law or equity, judgments, expenses, including reasonable attorney fees which
may arise, accrue or occur, directly or indirectly, as a result of or claimed
to be the result of the company’s activities in the cable television business.
Such company’s activities shall be deemed to include, but without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, any negligent, intentional or unintentional act or
omission by the company, by any of its subcontractors, subsidiaries,
principals, affiliates, associates, partners, or parent corporations or firms,
by anyone directly or indirectly employed by or associated with any of them, or
by any person, firm or corporation for whose acts any of them may be liable.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-9)
   B.   Insurance.
      1.   Concurrent with the filing of the acceptance of the company of the
franchise hereby granted, the company shall furnish to the village and file
with the village clerk, and at all times during the term of the franchise,
maintain in full force and effect at its own expense a general comprehensive
liability insurance policy, including workers’ compensation and contractual
liability coverage, in protection of the village, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents and employees, with a company licensed to do business in
the state, in a form satisfactory to the village attorney, protecting the
village and all persons against all claims, demands, actions, judgments, costs,
expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, and liabilities for loss or
damage for personal injury, death or property damages occasioned directly or
indirectly by the operations of the company under the franchise as aforesaid
with minimum liability limits of $500,000 for personal injury or death of any
one person, and $2,000,000 for personal injury or death of any two or more
persons in any one occurrence, and $2,000,000 for damage to property resulting
from any one occurrence. The company shall also comply with all the provisions
of the workers’ compensation law of the state. The amounts and nature of
insurance coverage shall be adjusted or increased by the company from time to
time upon the direction of the village.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-9) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   The insurance policy mentioned in subsection B.1. above shall name
the village, its officers, boards, agents and employees as additional insureds
and contain a provision that a written notice of cancellation or reduction of
the policy shall be delivered to the village ten days in advance of the
effective date thereof; if such insurance is provided by policy which also
covers grantee or any other entity or person other than those named above, then
such policy shall contain the standard cross liability endorsement.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
§ 3-6-9 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The company shall maintain through the term of the franchise, or any renewal
or extension thereof, a faithful performance bond running to the village with
good and sufficient surety approved by the village board in the penal sum total
of $10,000, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the company and upon
the further condition that in the event the company shall fail to comply with
law, ordinance or regulation governing the franchise, there shall be
recoverable jointly and severally from the principal and the surety of the
bond, any damages or loss suffered by the village as a result, including the
full amount of any compensation, indemnification or cost of removal or
abandonment of any property of the company, plus a reasonable amount for
attorney fees and costs, up to the full amount of the bond. (1987 Code, § 10-1-
10)
§ 3-6-10 RATES AND CHARGES.
   A.   Authority To Impose Rates And Charges. The company shall lay all
cables, wires and lines both on the public and private properties of the
village at its own expense, but the company shall have the privilege of
charging its customers both an installation fee to bring the service to their
properties and a monthly fee for their continued use of the service. All rates
charged the company’s customers shall be standard, uniform and reasonable.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-11)
   B.   Schedule. A schedule of the initial rates and charges for service is on
file with the village clerk. These rates and charges shall not be changed for
two years from the date cable television is offered to the last home in the
village. Thereafter, the company shall have the right to annually adjust its
rates for monthly basic cable service in a percentage equal to the changes in
the United States bureau of labor statistics consumer price index upon the
notification of its customers and the filing with the village clerk of a dated
revised schedule of changes 30 days prior to the effective date. For this
purpose, the index figure in existence on the date cable television is offered
to the last home in the village shall be used as a base.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-11) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Changes To Rates. Changes in basic cable service rates greater than
described in this section or any changes in ancillary service rates or other
charges can be effected by the company upon 60 days’ notice filed in schedule
form with the village clerk and shall become effective 60 days subsequent to
such filing unless the company is notified in writing by the village within 30
days of receipt of the rate schedule that such changes are unacceptable or
require further examination by the village. In such event, no changes in such
rates shall be effected except as authorized by the village in accordance with
the utilization of the procedures outlined in §
3-6-11 . All rates shall be on file for inspection by the public in the
company’s offices and shall appear on all the company’s brochures or literature
describing the services.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-11)
§ 3-6-11 PROCEDURES.
   A.   Any injury, proceeding, investigation or other action to be taken or
proposed to be taken by the village board in regard to the company’s cable
television system, including action in regard to a change in subscription rates
as stated before, and the extension of this franchise agreement pursuant to §
3-6-20 shall be taken only after 30 days’ public notice of such action or
proposed action is published in an area or daily or weekly newspaper having
general circulation in the village; a copy of such action or proposed action is
served directly on the company; and the company has been given an opportunity
to respond or comment in writing on the action or proposed action. If the
company should request an inquiry, proceeding investigation or other action,
the village will hold a hearing within 30 days of receipt of the request.
   B.   The public notice required by this section shall state clearly the
action or proposed action to be taken, the time provided for response and the
person or persons in authority to whom such responses should be addressed, and
such other procedures as may be specified by the village board. If a hearing is
to be held, the public notice shall give the date and time of such hearing,
whether public participation will be allowed and the procedures by which such
participation may be obtained.
   C.   The company shall have the right, through its agents or employees, to
be present at all public portions of any such hearing and the opportunity,
through said agents or employees, to make an oral statement on its behalf at
any such hearing.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-12)
§ 3-6-12 SERVICE PROTECTION.
   The distribution system shall be installed, operated and maintained in such
a manner that no interference will be caused to the reception of signals from
standard television stations or to the reception of signals transmitted by any
communication service authorized by any federal agency or to any of the village
owned utilities.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-13)
§ 3-6-13 COMPLAINT INVESTIGATION AND RESOLUTION PROCEDURE.
   The company shall promptly, upon commencing operation, establish a procedure
for the investigation and resolution of customer complaints. At a minimum, the
procedure shall provide for a local office and agent for that purpose at all
times during the franchise or any extension thereof, and designate by title the
person responsible to the public.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-14)
§ 3-6-14 CUSTOMER CONTRACTS.
   A.   No contract as to the length of service for a regular monthly
residential customer shall be required by the company under ordinary
circumstances. The company agrees that under ordinary circumstances it shall be
the right of the customer to start or terminate all or any basic or ancillary
category of his or her service on cable according to his or her own wishes by
making advance payments of current rates to commence service, and by reasonable
notice to the company to terminate the service. The BASIC CABLE SERVICE, which
is defined in §
3-6-2 , shall be the only requisite service a customer must select in order to
be a customer to cable. No customer shall be required to subscribe to any
ancillary or additional category of service that may be offered by the company
as a condition for continuing to receive those signals and services that are
part of the basic cable service. It is hereby acknowledged, however, that any
equipment installed by the company on behalf of the customer on his or her
premises shall remain the property of the company, and shall be subject to
reasonable hours and removal upon termination of the service.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-15)
   B.   In the event that any customer shall fail to meet his or her
obligations according to the approved rate schedule and to meet reasonable
company rules and regulations, the company shall have the right to withhold or
deny services to such customer. In the event service is interrupted at any time
for more than 24 consecutive hours, the company shall give each customer to
whom such service is interrupted a pro rata rebate or credit against charges
for whatever services the customer has subscribed to receive, unless the
interruption is caused by an act of nature, or the village, or any public
utility, or the condition of the municipal or public utility poles or equipment
without any fault of the company.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-15) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 3-6-15 TIME FOR BEGINNING AND COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   A.   The company shall begin construction of the system within 60 days of
the effective date hereof. The company shall complete the system and have it in
full operation within 18 months of the effective date hereof. If the system is
not complete and in full operation within 18 months of the effective date
hereof, and the village declares a default as provided in § 3-6-23, the company
shall, within 120 days after the 30 days in which the company has to show cause
why it should not be held in default, to remove all of the uncompleted system,
restore all municipal or other public utility poles used by the company (except
the company at any time shall not be required to replace any pole undamaged by
the affixing and subsequent removal of the company’s equipment beyond the
necessary holes drilled), restore the surface of the ground where any pole
belonging to the company is removed, and restore the surface of the ground
where any excavation had been done by the company for the installation of
underground cable, and the village shall recover from the principal and surety
of the company’s performance bond, as provided in § 3-6-9, for any damage or
loss suffered by the village.
   B.   If the company does not so remove the uncompleted system within 120
days, then, in addition to the recovery from the principal and surety of the
company’s performance bond, as provided in § 3-6-9 of this chapter, for any
damage or loss suffered by the village, the village may take over the system,
and all the company’s right and interest to the system shall terminate upon
payment to the company within 240 days of either:
      1.   The company’s actual costs on the date of the notice of default for
the plant equipment in place in the system and the cost of installation as
evidenced by invoices, paid receipts, canceled checks, mechanics’ lien releases
or equivalent evidence of costs paid by the company; or
      2.   The sum the village received from any subsequent franchise within
one year of the notice of default in payment for the acquisition of the plant
equipment; whichever amount, subsection B.1. above or this subsection B.2., is
greater, but in either case, less than 5% to be retained by the village as a
penalty for the company’s default.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-16)
§ 3-6-16 EXTENT AND TIME OF REQUIRED SERVICE.
   A.   After the system is complete, the company must offer service to all
residents of the village, as defined by the corporate limits in existence as of
the effective date hereof, and upon the request of any resident of the village,
the company shall furnish service within 60 days of the request, provided the
company shall not be required to offer service to a resident, even though
within the village limits, where the density of family dwelling units is less
than 40 per mile.
   B.   During the term of the franchise or any extension thereof, the company
shall make the service available to any resident of the village as the village
corporate limits may be extended, provided the minimum density requirement as
set forth in subsection A. above is met. The company shall make service
available to residents who become eligible by their place of residence having
been annexed to the village, and by meeting the minimum density requirement,
within 180 days of the eligibility of the resident. In the case of lands or
subdivisions annexed to the village after the effective date of the franchise
agreement, the company shall have one year from such eligibility of additional
residents to offer service if the trunk line to provide such new service must
be extended more than one mile from the nearest trunk line already necessary to
serve the portion of the village required to be served within 18 months of the
effective date hereof.
   C.   For the purposes of determining density to define resident to whom
service is required to be offered by the company, DWELLING UNITS shall mean
either single-family houses or individual apartments or condominium units
within a building or complex of buildings.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-17)
§ 3-6-17 FRANCHISE FEE.
   A.   The company shall pay to the village for the privilege of operating a
cable television service within the corporate limits of the village, as now
exists or as hereinafter constituted, an annual franchise fee equal to 3% of
the total annual gross customer revenues from basic cable service and 3% from
all ANCILLARY SERVICES with the village as defined in §
3-6-2 , said payments to be made annually on or before the thirteenth day
following the last day of the year. Such payments shall be credited against any
business and occupation tax or franchise tax imposed by the village, or other
village tax, except personal property and real estate taxes required to be paid
by the company.
   B.   The village shall have the right to inspect, at all reasonable times,
at offices of the company, the records of the company regarding its operations
in the village for the purpose of ascertaining accurately what the actual gross
receipts of the company for basic cable television service and ancillary
services have been for the present or past years.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-18)
§ 3-6-18 SYSTEM AND SERVICE.
   A.   The company shall install a cable system capable of carrying at least
35 channels and shall at least provide at the outset and maintain the services
of 16 channels of basic service and two channels of ancillary service of video
and audio signals designated for color transmission which can be modified for
two-way services. The company shall install and increase the services and
capability of the cable system when the technology and market places permit. No
changes in the designated channels (including Home Box Office [HBO] and
Cinemax) shall be made by the company without the prior consultation and
approval of the village.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-19) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   The company shall provide, without charge and upon written request from
the school principal(s), a cable outlet for transmission of and provide basic
service to each primary and secondary school in the village.
   C.   The company shall provide, without charge and upon written request from
the village’s authorized agent, a cable outlet for transmission of and provide
basic cable service to each village office building, village library and fire
station and police station within the village.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-19)
§ 3-6-19 SAFETY CONDITIONS AND POLICE POWER.
   The village reserves the general right to see that the system of the company
is constructed and maintained in a safe condition consonant with the village
ordinances. In the event the village shall find that an unsafe condition does
exist, it may order the company to make necessary repairs forthwith, and if the
company shall fail to so do, the village may cause the repairs to be made and
collect all costs therefor from the company. In accepting this franchise, the
company acknowledges that its rights hereunder are subject to the police power
of the village to adopt and enforce general ordinances enacted by the village
board pursuant to such power.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-20)
§ 3-6-20 TERM OF FRANCHISE; EXTENSION.
   The franchise and rights herein granted shall take effect and be in force
from and after the final passage hereof as required by law and upon the filing
of an unqualified acceptance by the company with the village clerk and shall
continue in force and effect for the term of 15 years from and after the
effective date. The company is further granted a conditional right, subject to
approval by the village, to an extension of its franchise for a period of ten
years on the same terms and conditions as contained herein or on such different
or additional terms and conditions as may be specified by the village, provided
notice of such intent is served in writing on the village at least six months
prior to the expiration of the initial 15-year term, and such extension is
approved by the village pursuant to the procedures of §
3-6-11.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-21)
§ 3-6-21 OWNERSHIP DISCLOSURE.
   On acceptance of this franchise and thereafter as any change occurs in
ownership or management of the company, the company shall promptly provide to
the village:
   A.   A list of partners or officers and members of the board of directors of
the company and of any parent corporation; and
   B.   A list of all stockholders holding 3% or more of the voting stock of
the company and the parent corporation, if any.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-22)
§ 3-6-22 PERIODIC REVIEW.
   A.   Every month until completion of the cable television system, the
company shall submit a status report at the regular monthly meeting of the
village board, each of which shall be open to the public. Thereafter, during
the term of this chapter, the village and the company shall hold review
sessions at least every two months at regular meetings of the village board,
each of which shall be open to the public.
   B.   At each such meeting, any amendments to this chapter and any applicable
judicial or FCC rulings shall be discussed and any appropriate action taken. In
addition, the progress of installation of the cable system, the company’s
operation of the cable system, and service to its customers shall be discussed.
At any such meeting, the reasonable range of potential liability for risks
covered by the required insurance may be discussed and adjusted if the village
deems it necessary.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-23)
§ 3-6-23 DEFAULT AND FORFEITURE.
   A.   The village shall be entitled to cancel and terminate this franchise
and all rights hereunder provided to the company upon any of the following acts
or omissions by the company:
      1.   A material breach, whether by act or omission, of any terms or
conditions of this chapter;
      2.   Material misrepresentation of fact in the application for or
negotiations of the franchise;
      3.   Insolvency of the company, or the application of the company for an
adjudication as a bankrupt, or the adjudication of the company as a bankrupt
upon an involuntary petition; or
      4.   Failure to provide customers or users with adequate service.
   B.   Provided, however, that in each case, the village shall serve upon the
company written notice of such violation, and the company shall thereupon
correct such violation or show cause why such violation should not or cannot be
corrected not more than 30 days from and after the date of receipt of the
notice. Within the 30 days, the company shall have the right to have a meeting
with the village to present to the village board and have considered the
sufficiency of the company’s actions to correct such violations or the validity
of the cause shown by the company why such violations should not be corrected,
and if the village does not approve the action taken by the company to correct
the violations or accept the cause given by the company why such violations
should not be corrected, the village shall promptly state in writing its
reasons for such disapproval or rejection.
   C.   In the event the company fails to correct such violations within the
stated time or satisfactorily show cause why such violations should not be
corrected, this franchise shall thereupon be null and void and of no further
force or effect, but all rights accruing to the village against the company
shall continue in favor of the village. Failure to enforce or insist upon
compliance of any of the terms or conditions of this chapter shall not
constitute a waiver or relinquishment of any such terms or conditions by the
village, but the same shall be and remain at all times in full force and
effect.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-24)
§ 3-6-24 FCC RULES.
   Any modification of the rules and regulations of the FCC shall be
incorporated in this chapter and franchise within one year of its effective
date. The company shall promptly inform the village of any modifications of the
rules and regulations of the FCC.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-25)
§ 3-6-25 AMENDMENTS.
   The company warrants that the provisions of this franchise are compatible
with the existing laws of the state and regulations of the FCC. In the event of
a breach of this warranty by the company, the village may declare this chapter
null and void and of no further force and effect, but all rights accruing to
the village against the company should continue in favor of the village. In the
event of any amendment, modification or supplemental legislation or regulation
which would change the limitations now imposed by such law or regulations,
other than as provided in §
3-6-24 of this chapter, this franchise shall, upon written notice of either the
village or company to the other, be amended and changed in accordance with such
amendment, modification or supplement. This franchise may be amended at any
time with the consent of both village and company.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-26)
§ 3-6-26 LIMITATIONS OF FRANCHISE.
   The franchise granted herein by the village to the company is not intended
to convey any copyright or patent privileges whatsoever.
(1987 Code, § 10-1-27)
§ 3-6-27 CORRESPONDENCE.
   Any notices required in this chapter shall be mailed or delivered to the
village or the company at the following designated addresses or such other
address as the village or the company shall hereafter designate:
   VILLAGE OF EDINBURG
   c/o Village President
   Post Office Box 350
   Edinburg, IL 62531
 
   MEDIACOM
   409 Massey Lane
   Jacksonville, IL 62650
   CONSOLIDATED COMM.
   121 S. 17th St.
   Mattoon, IL 61938-3987
(1987 Code, § 10-1-28) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 7: VIDEO GAMING DEVICES
Section
   
3-7-1   Definitions
   
3-7-2   Video Gaming Terminal Fee
§ 3-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 230 ILCS 40/5, as such statute now
exists or as may hereafter be amended, which is incorporated herein by
reference.
   LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 230 ILCS 40/5, as such
statute now exists or as may hereafter be amended, which is incorporated herein
by reference.
   LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 230 ILCS 40/5, as such
statute now exists or as may hereafter be amended, which is incorporated herein
by reference.
   LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 230 ILCS 40/5, as such
statute now exists or as may hereafter be amended, which is incorporated herein
by reference.
   TERMINAL OPERATOR. As defined in 230 ILCS 40/5, as such statute now exists
or as may hereafter be amended, which is incorporated herein by reference.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. As defined in 230 ILCS 40/5, as such statute now
exists or as may hereafter be amended, which is incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. 790, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 3-7-2 VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL FEE.
   A.   Video gaming through a video gaming terminal, to the extent it such
video gaming is licensed, permitted, regulated, supervised and enforced under
the Video Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., or any amendments thereto
(“Act”), which Act is incorporated herein by reference, is lawful within the
corporate limits of the village provided the hereinafter mentioned annual $125
fee payable to the village is paid and each applicable licensee under such Act
is not in violation of such Act or of any rules or regulations adopted pursuant
to such Act.
   B.   A licensed establishment, licensed truck stop establishment, licensed
veterans establishment, or licensed fraternal establishment may operate up to
five video gaming terminals on its premises at any time subject to payment of
the annual $25 fee for each video gaming terminal on its premises payable to
the village.
   C.   An annual fee of $25 for each video gaming terminal payable to the
village is hereby assessed and shall be paid by each licensed establishment,
licensed truck stop establishment, licensed veterans establishment, or licensed
fraternal establishment on or before January 1 of each calendar year or prior
to placement of any video gaming terminal on its premises. Such $25 annual fee
shall be for January 1 through December 31 of each calendar year or any part
thereof.
(Ord. 790, passed 7-9-2012)
CHAPTER 8: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
Section
   
3-8-1   Definitions
   
3-8-2   Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
   
3-8-3   PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
   
3-8-4   Applicable Principles
   
3-8-5   No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
   
3-8-6   Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
   
3-8-7   Late Fees/Payments
   
3-8-8   Applicable Customer Service Requirements And Privacy Protections
§ 3-8-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE SERVICE. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   COMMISSION. The state commerce commission.
   GROSS REVENUES. All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder’s cable service or video service area within
the village.
      1.   GROSS REVENUES shall include the following:
         a.   Recurring charges for cable or video service;
         b.   Event-based charges for cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
         c.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment;
         d.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation and
repair charges;
         e.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges;
         f.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges,
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments;
         g.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement;
         h.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder’s network,
such as a “home shopping” or similar channel, subject to subsection i. below;
         i.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities or applications,
the portion of the holder’s revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business; and
         j.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b).
      2.   GROSS REVENUES do not include any of the following:
         a.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi);
         b.   Refunds, discounts or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state-issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service;
         c.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or Internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to non-
cable service or non-video service in accordance with the holder’s books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards or orders;
         d.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser’s subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that
it will resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220
ILCS 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service;
         e.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a village, state, federal or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state-issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes;
         f.   Security deposits collected from subscribers; and
         g.   Amounts paid by subscribers to home shopping or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
      3.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b) which would otherwise be
paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-
401.
   PEG. Public, education and governmental.
   PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE. The amount paid under this chapter and 220 ILCS 5/
21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service areas within its
territorial jurisdiction.
   SERVICE. The provision of CABLE SERVICE or VIDEO SERVICE to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE. The amount paid under this chapter and 220 ILCS 5/21-
801 by the holder to a village for the service areas within its territorial
jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE. Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d) or any video
programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables users to
access content, information, electronic mail, or other services offered over
the public internet.
(Ord. 821, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-8-2 CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED.
   A.   Fee Imposed. A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   B.   Amount Of Fee. The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be 3% of the
holder’s gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The Village. The holder shall notify the village at least ten
days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the village.
   D.   Holder’s Liability. The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder’s liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following 30 days after receipt of the
ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the
holder’s application notice sent pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6) to the
village.
   E.   Payment Date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   F.   Exemption. The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) with credit
for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the amount of such
credit from the fees that operator owes under § 3-8-2(b).
(Ord. 821, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-8-3 PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED.
   A.   PEG Fee Imposed. A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the village in addition to
the fee imposed pursuant to §
3-8-2 .
   B.   Amount Of Fee. The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be 1% of the holder’s gross revenues or, if greater, the percentage of
gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the village or its
designee for PEG access support in the village.
   C.   Payment. The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the village
or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG access. The holder’s
liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date set forth
in §
3-8-2 (d).
   D.   Payment Due. The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   E.   Credit For Other Payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) shall pay, at
the time they would have been due, all monetary payments for PEG access that
would have been due during the remaining term of the agreement had it not been
terminated pursuant to that section. All payments made by an incumbent cable
operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited against the fees
that the operator owes under § 3-8-3(b).
(Ord. 821, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-8-4 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES.
   All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 821, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-8-5 NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state-issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village’s
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state-issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government’s 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges.
(Ord. 821, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-8-6 AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.
   A.   Audit Requirement. The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder’s books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being 50 ILCS
45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord
that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within 30 days after the village’s submission of an invoice for the sum.
(Ord. 821, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-8-7 LATE FEES/PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this village pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of
Rights Act, being 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
(Ord. 821, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-8-8 APPLICABLE CUSTOMER SERVICE REQUIREMENTS AND PRIVACY PROTECTIONS.
   Each holder shall comply with the customer service requirements and privacy
protections as set forth in 220 ILCS 5/22-501 (customer service and privacy
protection), state bar edition, as now enacted or hereafter modified.
(Ord. 821, passed 8-10-2015)
CHAPTER 9: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
3-9-1   Purpose And Scope
   
3-9-2   Definitions
   
3-9-3   Annual Registration Required
   
3-9-4   Permit Required; Applications And Fees
   
3-9-5   Action On Permit Applications
   
3-9-6   Effect Of Permit
   
3-9-7   Revised Permit Drawings
   
3-9-8   Insurance
   
3-9-9   Indemnification
   
3-9-10   Security
   
3-9-11   Permit Suspension And Revocation
   
3-9-12   Change Of Ownership Or Owner’s Identity Or Legal Status
   
3-9-13   General Construction Standards
   
3-9-14   Traffic Control
   
3-9-15   Location Of Facilities
   
3-9-16   Construction Methods And Materials
   
3-9-17   Vegetation Control
   
3-9-18   Removal, Relocation Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
   
3-9-19   Clean-Up And Restoration
   
3-9-20   Maintenance and Emergency Maintenance
   
3-9-21   Variances
   
3-9-22   Penalties
   
3-9-23   Enforcement
   
3-9-24   Severability
§ 3-9-1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
   B.   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the village’s residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities now existing or heretofore or hereafter located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way within the jurisdiction
of the village. A facility lawfully established prior to the effective date of
this chapter may continue to be maintained, repaired and operated by the
utility only as presently constructed and located, except as may be otherwise
provided in any applicable franchise, license or similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses or Similar Agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement and/or obtain a permit for the
privilege of locating their facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across or within the village rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by
law to enter into such an agreement may request that the village enter into
such an agreement. In such an agreement, the village may provide for terms and
conditions inconsistent with this chapter.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses Or Similar Agreements.
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers. In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, but only
to the extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws, statutes, rules or regulations conflict with the
requirements of this chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of
this chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating applicable
federal or state laws, statutes, rules or regulations.
   H.   Variances. When administering this chapter, the village may vary the
standards, conditions and requirements expressed in this chapter when the
village in the exercise of sound engineering judgment, so determines; provided,
however, nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the village
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare as the village determines in its sole discretion.
   I.   Prohibition Of Wireless Telecommunication Towers. Notwithstanding
anything in this chapter to the contrary, it shall be unlawful for any person
to install, place, construct or maintain any wireless telecommunication tower
with a height in excess of 45 feet anywhere within any right-of-way within the
corporate limits of the village, except as a special use that is located in an
I-2 heavy industrial district, provided such special use is authorized by the
village board of trustees in accordance with §
10-7-2 B.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015; Ord. 828, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 3-9-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term not defined
in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill. Admin. Code
530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American association of state highway and transportation officials.
   ANSI. American national standards institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American society for testing and materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the “AASHTO Roadside
Design Guide.”
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The village code.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. Installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT. The village’s appointed general superintendent or
his or her designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The village advisory engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within rights-of-way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land/adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
village advisory engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the
life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of
the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HEIGHT. The vertical measurement from the ground to the vertical apex of the
measured wireless telecommunication tower.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, being 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the State Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.
   IDOT. State department of transportation.
   ICC. State commerce commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   JULIE. The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a rights-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. The entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
3-9-4  and
3-9-5 .
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
entity.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal slurry.
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the village.
If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, roadway, alley, easements, other
land or waterway, dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular
traffic or for utilities or other similar purposes, including, but not limited
to, utility easements, in which the village has the right and authority to
authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other than those of
the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any real or
personal village property that is not specifically described in the previous
sentence and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and other structures
or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. The part of the highway or street that includes the pavement and
shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. The amount of security required pursuant to §
3-9-10 .
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. (PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984, being 47 U.S.C. § 521 and following, as now or hereafter amended,
or cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee
payable to the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of
the Federal Communications Commission, being 47 C.F.R. § 76.1500 and following,
as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in making sales
of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. As defined in the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007
§ 21-201(v), being 220 ILCS 21-201(v).
   VILLAGE. The village of Edinburg, a municipal corporation.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The acting elected village clerk for the village or his or
her designee.
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER. A device or structure affixed to the
ground, a building or other structure, which device or structure is capable of
or intended to support equipment used to transmit and/or receive wireless
telecommunications signals of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever, including
but not limited to, cable services through a cable system, or telecommunication
services provided through the internet, mobile service providers, devices, or
remote stations or devices, or through data-driven services.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015; Ord. 828, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 3-9-3 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the village clerk, providing the utility’s name,
address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of one or
more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection with
emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-
hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of insurance as
required in §
3-9-8, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-4 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   A.   Permit Required. No person shall construct, as defined in this chapter,
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any village
right-of-way which changes the location of the facility; adds a new facility;
disrupts the right-of-way, as defined in this chapter; or materially increases
the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on, over, above, along,
under across or within the right-of-way, without first filing an application
with the village clerk and obtaining a permit from the village therefor, except
as otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall be required for
installation and maintenance of service connections to customers’ premises
where there will be no disruption of the right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village from time to time and
shall be filed in such number of duplicate copies as the village clerk may
designate from time to time. The applicant may designate those portions of its
application materials that it reasonably believes contain proprietary or
confidential information as proprietary or confidential by clearly marking each
page of such materials accordingly, subject however to the applicability of the
Freedom of Information Act, being 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq., as now enacted or
hereafter amended.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements. The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the State Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed.
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in §
3-9-8;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
3-9-10;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see § 3-7-21); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities.
In addition to the requirements of subsection C. above, the permit application
shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific utility that
is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any certificate of public
convenience and necessity or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
state environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies, have
been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the state environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control and the metropolitan water reclamation
district or other local or state entities with jurisdiction, have been
satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant’s Duty To Update Information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in an amount not less than $500, and any fee amount
over $500 shall be in an amount as determined by the village’s general
superintendent based upon his or her estimated cost for the work and time
involved by the village’s employees, engineers or contractors to process and
monitor such application and the construction of such facility within the
right-of-way. No application fee is required to be paid by any electricity
utility that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee
pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, being 35 ILCS
645/5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015; Ord. 828, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 3-9-5 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be referred to and examined by the
village advisory engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application does not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules and regulations, the village advisory engineer shall reject
such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the village
advisory engineer is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the
requirements of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and
regulations, the village clerk shall issue a permit therefor as soon as
practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the village advisory engineer, that the
construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers.
      1.   Pursuant to the Telephone Company Act, being 220 ILCS 65/0.01 et
seq., a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village that it intends to
commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans, specifications
and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the
facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work requiring no
excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of work
requiring excavation. The village advisory engineer shall specify the portion
of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and
constructed.
      2.   In the event that the village advisory engineer fails to provide
such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within
either:
         a.   Ten days after service of notice to the village by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction; or
         b.   Twenty-five days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to § 3-9-4, the telecommunications
retailer shall submit to the village an application for a permit and any and
all plans, specifications and documentation available regarding the facility to
be constructed. Such application shall be subject to the requirements of
subsection A. above.
   C.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, being 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq., shall be
deemed granted 45 days after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted
upon by the village, provided the holder has complied with all applicable
village codes, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-6 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights-of-way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   B.   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Pre-Construction Meeting Required. No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction meeting shall be
held at a date, time and place designated by the village with such village
representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-7 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with § 3-9-21. If the village denies the
request for a variance, then the permittee shall either remove the facility
from the right-of-way or modify the facility so that it conforms to the permit
and submit revised drawings or plans therefor.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-8 INSURANCE.
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits. Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the rights-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, representatives and employees as additional insureds on the policies
listed in subsections A.1. and A.2. below:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
X, C and U coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with limits
not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property damage for
each accident;
      3.   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident. If the utility is not providing such
insurance to protect the contractors and subcontractors performing the work,
then such contractors and subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess or Umbrella Policies. The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the Village Clerk within ten days
following receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   D.   Maintenance and Renewal of Required Coverages.
      1.   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement: “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may
not be canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after
receipt by the village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the village’s village president of
such intent to cancel or not to renew.”
      2.   Within ten days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in
no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A. above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under subsection A. above, or the requirements of subsections B., C. and D. of
this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under subsection a. of this
section, such as evidence that the utility is a “private self-insurer” under
the Workers Compensation Act.
   F.   Effect of Insurance and Self-Insurance on Utility’s Liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state. All insurance
carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-” or better and of a class
size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-9 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to and shall defend, indemnify and hold the village and its
elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and
representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs of suit or defense, of any kind, nature or extent
whatsoever arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or result
from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to act or
misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees, agents,
representatives, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of
facilities or occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering
service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized,
allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license or similar
agreement; provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity obligations
hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages,
losses or expenses to the extent they arise out of or result from the
negligence or misconduct by the village, its officials, officers, employees,
agents or representatives.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-10 SECURITY.
   A.   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims, costs
or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or non-
performance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due to the village from the permittee pursuant
to this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form. The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection B. shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the village advisory engineer, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the village estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the village advisory
engineer may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post
a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection C. for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals. The village, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this subsection D., may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided
that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the
14-day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the
permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in subsection
C. above.
   F.   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C. above.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights that may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension. Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-of-way
to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such removal to
the village within ten days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection C.
   D.   Stop Work Order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A.
above.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C. above, the village or its
designee may, at the option of the village correct the deficiencies; upon not
less than 20 days notice to the permittee, remove the subject facilities or
equipment; or after not less than 30 days notice to the permittee of failure to
cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the village. The
permittee shall be liable in all events to the village for all costs of
removal.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   A.   Notification Of Change. A utility shall notify the village no less than
30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way
or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the
facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former
owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in
the right-of-way.
   B.   Amended Permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village’s right-
of-way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   A.   Standards And Principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      1.   Standard specifications for road and bridge construction;
      2.   Supplemental specifications and recurring special provisions;
      3.   Highway design manual;
      4.   Highway standards manual;
      5.   Standard specifications for traffic control items;
      6.   State manual on uniform traffic control devices;
      7.   Flagger’s handbook; and
      8.   Work site protection manual for daylight maintenance operations.
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the village advisory engineer shall determine, in the exercise of
sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be
final. If requested, the village advisory engineer shall state which standard
or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance or operation of a
facility in the future.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   A.   Minimum Requirements. The village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s state manual on uniform traffic control
devices and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices And Flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
3-9-20 , the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   E.   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the village.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   A.   General Requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection
A.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities. No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the village advisory engineer determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
village’s utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village’s utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways.
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet behind the face of the curb, where
available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet outside the outer
shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot of the
right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet from and parallel to the right-of-way
line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot of the right-of-way line or as
near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways.
      1.   No Future Disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts Or Drainage Facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90 degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Line,” being
83 Ill. Admin. Code 305;
         b.   Poles are located within one foot of the right-of-way line of the
highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility. An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations, being 49 C.F.R.
§ 192.707, 1989 edition.
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights-Of-Way. The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities.
      1.   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      2.   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Above Ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures.
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards.
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods.
      1.   Boring Or Jacking.
         a.   Pits And Shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the village
advisory engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking
shall be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking
operations and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations
are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected
by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced and
maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that
may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches. Borings over six
inches in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following pipe, and
the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of the
following pipe by more than one inch.
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction”
§ 603.
         a.   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the village advisory engineer.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling.
         a.   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction.” When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the village advisory engineer, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
village advisory engineer.
      4.   Pavement Cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A.4.
is permitted under §
3-9-21 , the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the engineer;
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village;
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth; and
         d.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a JULIE
locate.
      5.   Encasement.
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be located in
the area established as clear zone for that particular section of the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
            (1)   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
            (2)   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities. Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                             Minimum Cover
Communication, cable or video surface lines  18 to 24 in.
Electric lines                               30 in.
Gas or petroleum products                    30 in.
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage line Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
Water line                                   Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities.
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines.
         a.   Code Compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Admin. Code 305, formerly General
Order 160 of the state commerce commission, entitled “Rules for Construction of
Electric Power and Communications Lines,” and the national electrical safety
code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities.
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads;
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
               (a)   The crossing is installed by the use of moles, whip augers
or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation; or
               (b)   The installation is by the open trench method which is
only permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of moles, whip augers, or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, transportation of
natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards part 192,
being 49 C.F.R. part 192, IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction,” and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Waterlines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines or
Drainage Lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.”
      6.   Ground-Mounted Appurtenances. Ground-mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 millimeters) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy-duty plastic or
similar material approved by the general superintendent. With the approval of
the general superintendent, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used
in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted appurtenances
shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials.
      1.   General Standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s “Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,” the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage on Right-of-Way. No material shall be stored on the
right-of-way without the prior written approval of the village advisory
engineer. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross
arms or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on the right-of-way, prior approval must
be obtained from the village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions.
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the engineer when emergency work
is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of construction
are between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Mondays through Saturdays.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with the
Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act, being 220 ILCS 50/1 et
seq.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-17 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations, and additionally, in accordance with such local franchise, license
or other agreement with the village as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable state laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit. Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the international society of
arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance. The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use.
      1.   Except as provided in subsection D.2. below, no utility shall spray,
inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation in the
village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the general superintendent that such spraying is the only practicable method
of vegetation control.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-18 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   A.   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any
village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon,
the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the general superintendent
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not direct the utility
that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to
the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the
alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility
or person.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-19 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration
of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made
using materials and methods approved by the general superintendent. Such
cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may be
extended by the general superintendent for good cause shown.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-20 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   A.   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility’s expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available;
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
general superintendent or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately; and
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs. The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-21 VARIANCES.
   A.   Request for Variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the village advisory
engineer as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each
provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons
why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority to Grant Variances. The village advisory engineer shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance. The village advisory engineer may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the village advisory engineer may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   E.   Right To Appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the village
advisory engineer under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to
appeal to the village board of trustees, or such other board or commission as
it may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to
the village clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The village board of trustees shall commence its
consideration of the appeal at a regularly scheduled village board of trustees
meeting occurring within 30 days after the filing of the appeal. The village
board of trustees shall timely decide the appeal.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-22 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine and penalties in
accordance with the general penalty provisions of §
1-4-1. There may be times when the village will incur delay or other costs,
including third party claims, because the utility will not or can not perform
its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the utility shows that
another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action is
appropriate, the utility shall bear and pay the village’s costs of damages and
its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating or removing the
facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or
commission may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the
village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs
apportioned to it.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-23 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 3-9-24 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect or otherwise impair or
affect the applicability of the remaining or any other section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter which is not, in or of
itself, invalid or unconstitutional. Each unconstitutional or invalid section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion, or application of such
provision, shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent and severable
provision.
(Ord. 822, passed 8-10-2015)
TITLE 4: HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
   Chapter
      
1.    NUISANCES
      
2.    WEEDS, GRASS AND PLANTS
      
3.    GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
      
4.    LITTER CONTROL
      
5.    OPEN BURNING
      
6.    DAMAGED, ABANDONED, INOPERABLE, UNLICENSED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1: NUISANCES
Section
   
4-1-1   Specific Nuisances Enumerated
   
4-1-2   Nuisances Detrimental To Health Generally
   
4-1-3   Abatement By Owner Or Occupant
   
4-1-4   Abatement By Village; Costs
   
4-1-5   Penalty
§ 4-1-1 SPECIFIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health, peace
and comfort of the village for any person within the limits of the village to
permit the following; but the enumeration of the following nuisances shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
   A.   Filth. To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth
or noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place to
the prejudice of others;
(1987 Code, § 25-1-1)
   B.   Filthy Premises. To keep or suffer to be kept any chicken coop, cow
barn, stable, cellar, vault, drain, privy, sewer or sink upon any premises
belonging to or occupied by any person, or any railroad car, building, yard,
grounds and premises belonging to or occupied by any person in a filthy or
noisome condition;
(1987 Code, § 25-1-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Offensive Liquids. To keep any nauseous, foul or putrid liquid or
substance or any liquid or substance likely to become nauseous, foul, offensive
or putrid, nor permit any such liquid to be discharged, placed, thrown or to
flow from or out of any premises into or upon any adjacent premises or any
public street or alley, nor permit the same to be done by any person connected
with the premises; (1987 Code, § 25-1-1)
   D.   Offensive Business.
      1.   To establish, maintain and carry on any offensive or unwholesome
business within the limits of the village or within one mile of the limits; and
(1987 Code, § 25-1-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   To erect, continue or use any building or other place for the
exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture which, by occasioning noxious
exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the
health of individuals or of the public.
   E.   Deposit Of Offensive Materials. To throw or deposit any offal or other
offensive matter, or the carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake,
pond, spring, well or common sewer, street or public highway;
   F.   Pollution Of Water. To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the
water of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake to the injury or prejudice of
others;
   G.   Littering From Vehicles. To deposit or allow trash, paper, cardboard,
wire, dirt, rock, stone, glass, cans, brick, lumber, wood or litter of material
objects of any size or description to fall upon the streets or sidewalks of the
village from any moving vehicle, or to throw from a moving vehicle and allow to
remain thereon;
   H.   Accumulation Of Junk And Trash. To deposit or pile up any rags, old
rope, paper, iron, brass, copper, tin, aluminum, tires, junk, trash, concrete,
inoperable appliances, ashes, garbage, refuse, plastic, brush, litter, weeds,
sludge, lead, glass bottles or broken glass upon any lot, piece or parcel of
private or public land or upon any public or private alley, street or public
way within the village;
   I.   Rodents. To cause or permit any condition or situation to exist that
shall attract, harbor or encourage the infestation of rodents;
   J.   Encroachment Of Public Ways. To obstruct or encroach upon public
highways, private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places and ways to
burial places;
(1987 Code, § 25-1-1)
   K.   Manufacturing Explosive Substances. To carry on the business of
manufacturing gunpowder, nitroglycerine or other highly explosive substances,
or mixing or grinding the materials therefor in any building within 500 feet of
any building erected at the time such business may be commenced;
(1987 Code, § 25-1-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   L.   Powder Magazines. To establish powder magazines near the village at a
point different from that appointed according to law by the corporate
authorities of the village, or within 1,000 feet of any occupied dwelling
house;
   M.   Unlawful Advertising. To advertise wares or occupations by painting
notices of the same on or affixing them to fences or other private property, or
on rocks or other natural objects without the consent of the owner, or if in
the highway or other public place, without permission of the proper
authorities;
   N.   Oil, Gas And Salt Water Disposal Wells.
      1.   Open Wells. To permit any well drilled for oil, gas, salt water
disposal or any other purpose in connection with the production of oil and gas
to remain unplugged after such well is no longer used for the purpose for which
it was drilled;
      2.   Burn Out Pits. To construct or operate any salt water pit or oil
field refuse pit, commonly called a BURN OUT PIT, so that salt water, brine or
oil field refuse or other waste liquids may escape therefrom in any manner,
except by the evaporation of such salt water or brine or by the burning of such
oil field waste or refuse;
      3.   Discarded Materials. To permit concrete bases, discarded machinery
and materials to remain around any oil or gas well or to fail to fill any
holes, cellars, slush pits and other excavations made in connection with any
such well or to restore the surface of the lands surrounding any such well to
its condition before the drilling of any such well, upon abandonment of any
such oil or gas well; and
      4.   Seepage From Wells. To permit any salt water, oil, gas or other
wastes from any well drilled for oil, gas or exploration purposes to escape to
the surface, or into a mine or coal seam, or into any underground fresh water
supply or from one underground stratum to another.
   O.   Real Estate Harassment. To harass, intimidate or threaten any person
who is about to sell or lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real
property or is about to buy or lease, or has bought or leased, a residence or
other real property, when the harassment, intimidation or threat relates to a
person’s attempt to sell, buy or lease a residence, or other real property, or
refers to a person’s sale, purchase or lease of a residence or other real
property;
   P.   Expectorate. To expectorate on any public sidewalk, street or other
public building or floor or walk or any public vehicle or hall; and
   Q.   Common Law Nuisances. To commit any offense which is a nuisance
according to the common law of the land or made such by state statute.
(1987 Code, § 25-1-1)
Cross-reference:
   Littering From Vehicles, see §
4-4-5
   Nuisance, Unsafe, Unhealthful Businesses, see §
3-1-1
   Posting Bills, see §
5-4-4-5
§ 4-1-2 NUISANCES DETRIMENTAL TO HEALTH GENERALLY.
   No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premises or part
thereof shall be made, used, kept, maintained or operated in the village if
such use, keeping or maintenance of same shall be dangerous or detrimental to
health.
(1987 Code, § 25-1-2)
§ 4-1-3 ABATEMENT BY OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   A.   Notice To Abate. The designated authority may serve notice in writing
upon the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession or control of any lot,
building or premises in or upon which any nuisance may be found, or who may be
the owner or the cause of any such nuisance, requiring him or her to abate the
same within five days in such a manner as the designated authority shall
prescribe. It shall not be necessary in any case for the designated authority
to specify in the notice the manner in which any nuisance shall be abated,
unless he or she shall deem it advisable to do so.
(1987 Code, § 25-1-3)
   B.   Failure To Abate. If the person notified to abate a nuisance shall
neglect or refuse to comply with the requirements of such notice by abating
such nuisance within the time specified, such person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(1987 Code, § 25-1-4)
§ 4-1-4 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS.
   The designated authority may, upon the expiration of the time specified in
the notice, cause such nuisance to be abated; provided, however, that whenever
the owner, occupant, agent, or person in possession or control of any premises
in or upon which any nuisance may be found is unknown or cannot be found, the
designated authority may proceed to abate such nuisance without notice. In
either case, the expense of such abatement shall be paid by the person who may
have created or suffered such nuisance to exist and/or by the property owner
listed on the county tax rolls, in addition to any penalty or fine.
(1987 Code, § 25-1-5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
 
§ 4-1-5 PENALTY.
   If any person fails to abate such nuisance and is found guilty of violating
any section of this chapter, he or she shall be punished by a fine as provided
in § 1-4-1 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(1987 Code, § 25-1-6) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2: WEEDS, GRASS AND PLANTS
Section
   
4-2-1   Definitions
   
4-2-2   Height Limit
   
4-2-3   Notice To Remove
   
4-2-4   Failure To Remove; Abatement By Village; Costs
   
4-2-5   Lien Provisions
   
4-2-6   Liability Of Owner
   
4-2-7   Penalty
§ 4-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER, OWNERS, OWNER’S.   A sole owner, any part owner, any joint owner, any
tenant in common, any joint tenant, any tenant by entirety, any contract
purchaser or any lessee or tenant or occupant of the whole or of any part of
any land or real estate located within the corporate limits of the village.
   PLANTS. Shall not include trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants.
   PROPERTY. The land or real estate owned, leased, occupied or being purchased
by the owner (as that word is defined in this section).
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or BOULEVARD. The space between any sidewalk adjacent to the
owner’s property and the adjacent street pavement, and shall include the space
between the owner’s property line and the adjacent street pavement if there is
no sidewalk adjacent to the owner’s property line.
   WEEDS. Shall include, but not be limited to, the following: burdock, ragweed
(giant), ragweed (common), thistle, cocklebur, jimson, blue vervain, common
milkweed, wild carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard, rough pigweed, lamb’s-quarter,
wild lettuce, curled dock, smartweeds (all varieties), poison hemlock, wild
hemp and Johnson grass and all other noxious weeds as defined by statutes of
the state; and the word WEEDS shall also include any grass of any variety
exceeding eight inches in height.
(1987 Code, § 25-2-1)
§ 4-2-2 HEIGHT LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit any weeds, grass or plants to
grow to a height exceeding eight inches upon any property or upon any right-of-
way or boulevard within the corporate limits of the village. Any such weeds,
grass or plants exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1987 Code, § 25-2-2)
§ 4-2-3 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   The police department, or any other person so designated by the mayor or
village board, may issue a written notice for removal of weeds, grass or
plants. Such weeds, grass or plants shall be cut, mowed and trimmed by the
owner to a height not to exceed eight inches within five days after such notice
has been duly served. Service of the notice provided for herein may be effected
by handing the same to any owner or to any member of his or her household of
the age of 15 years or older found on the premises, or by mailing such notice
to the last known residence address of the owner; provided, that if the
premises is unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be obtained, then the
notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(1987 Code, §§ 25-2-3 and 25-2-4)
§ 4-2-4 FAILURE TO REMOVE; ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days, the
village may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by the owner, and
thereafter, in order to reduce costs and the subsequent nuisance of a further
growth of weeds, the village may cause said real estate to be treated with weed
killer, even though at the time of treatment there is no visible growth of
weeds. Said treatment may continue from year to year until such time as the
owner causes weeds to be removed and resumes maintenance of the real estate and
advises the village of that fact in writing.
(1987 Code, § 25-2-5)
§ 4-2-5 LIEN PROVISIONS.
   A.   Abatement Costs A Lien.
      1.   Charges for weed, grass or plant removal, destruction or abatement,
including the application of weed killer, shall be a lien upon the premises. A
bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service
shall be presented to the owner. If this bill is not paid within 30 days of
submission of the bill, a notice of lien of the cost and expense thereof
incurred by the village shall be recorded in the following manner:
         a.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
         b.   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
         c.   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village.
      2.   The notice of lien shall be filed in the county recorder’s office
within 60 days after such cost and expense is incurred.
(1987 Code, § 25-2-6)
   B.   Notice Of Lien; Payment Of Costs; Release Of Lien. The cost of the
cutting of weeds shall not be lien on the real estate affected unless a notice
is personally served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person to whom was
sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the last preceding
year. The notice shall be delivered or sent after the cutting of weeds on the
property. The notice shall state the substance of this section and shall
identify the property, by common description, and the location of the weeds to
be cut. Upon payment of the cost and expense after the notice of lien has been
filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in whose name the
lien has been filed, and the release may be filed of record in the same manner
as filing notice of the lien. All lien and release filing fees shall be paid by
the owner of the property.
(1987 Code, § 25-2-7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Foreclosure Of Lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed, grass
or plant cutting charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the
proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting
costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure
shall be in the name of the village after lien is in effect for 60 days.
(1987 Code, § 25-2-8)
§ 4-2-6 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   The liability of the owner as set forth in this chapter shall be joint and
several, and the village may proceed against any one or all owners, but the
village shall not be required to proceed against more than one owner.
(1987 Code, § 25-2-9)
§ 4-2-7 PENALTY.
   Whether or not the village or its representative removes, destroys, cuts
down or abates such nuisances, any owner within the village upon which such
nuisance is found to exist shall be in violation of this chapter and shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in §
1-4-1 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which such nuisance continues unabated after five days
from service or mailing of notice as provided in §
4-2-3.
(1987 Code, § 25-2-10) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3: GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
Section
   
4-3-1   Accumulation Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
   
4-3-2   Notice To Remove
   
4-3-3   Failure To Remove; Abatement By Village
   
4-3-4   Lien Provisions
   
4-3-5   Penalty
§ 4-3-1 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED.
   No person shall permit any garbage or trash to accumulate on his or her
premises or private property. It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it
shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of real estate to refuse or neglect
to remove the garbage or debris.
(1987 Code, § 25-3-1)
§ 4-3-2 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   The mayor, chief of police or the mayor’s designated representative may
issue a written notice for removal of garbage or debris. Such garbage or debris
shall be removed by the owner or occupant within five days after such notice
has been duly served. Service of notice provided for herein may be effected by
handing the same to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, or to any
member of his or her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the
premises, or by mailing such notice to the last known residence address of the
owners; provided, that if the premises is unoccupied and the owner’s address
cannot be obtained, then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the
premises.
(1987 Code, §§ 25-3-2 and 25-3-3)
§ 4-3-3 FAILURE TO REMOVE; ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days, the
village may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or
occupant.
(1987 Code, § 25-3-4)
§ 4-3-4 LIEN PROVISIONS.
   A.   Abatement Costs A Lien.
      1.   Charges for such removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A bill
representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service shall be
mailed to the owner at his or her last known address. If this bill is not paid
within 30 days of submission of the bill, a notice of lien of the cost and
expense thereof incurred by the village may be recorded in the following
manner:
         a.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
         b.   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
         c.   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village.
(1987 Code, § 25-3-5)
      2.   The notice of lien shall be filed in the county recorder’s office
within 60 days after the cost and expense is incurred.
(1987 Code, § 25-3-5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Notice Of Lien; Payment Of Costs; Release Of Lien. Notice of such lien
claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his or her address is
known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice of lien has been
filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in whose name the
lien has been filed, and the release shall be filed of record in the same
manner as filing notice of the lien.
(1987 Code, § 25-3-6)
   C.   Foreclosure Of Lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges may
be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the
village, after lien is in effect for 60 days. Suit to foreclose this lien shall
be commenced within two years after the date of filing notice of lien.
(1987 Code, § 25-3-7)
§ 4-3-5 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined as provided in §
1-4-1 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which such violation occurs or continues.
(1987 Code, § 25-3-8) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 4: LITTER CONTROL
Section
   
4-4-1   Definitions
   
4-4-2   Littering Prohibited
   
4-4-3   Use Of, Tampering With Receptacles
   
4-4-4   Public Ways To Be Kept Clean
   
4-4-5   Littering From Vehicles
   
4-4-6   Littering From Aircraft
   
4-4-7   Litter In Parks
   
4-4-8   Distributing Handbills
   
4-4-9   Receptacles At Parking Lots
   
4-4-10   Litter On Private Premises
§ 4-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed
for navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT shall include
helicopters and lighter than air powered craft and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A container of watertight construction with a
tightfitting lid or cover capable of preventing the escape of contents within.
Such RECEPTACLES shall have handles or other means for safe and convenient
handling and be of such size or sufficient capacity to hold all litter
generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES. Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed matter of
literature which is not delivered by any United States mail, including, but not
limited to, those which:
      1.   Advertise for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
      2.   Direct attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      3.   Direct attention to or advertise any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCK. Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares,
commodities and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river or land.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land, building or other structure designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together
with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox
and other structure appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses or fountains and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES. Any receptacles provided by or authorized by the
village.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1987 Code, § 27-7-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 4-4-2 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any litter within the village, or within any public
place, or within any private premises except in public receptacles, or in
authorized private receptacles for collection, or in any duly licensed disposal
facility.
(1987 Code, § 27-7-2) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 4-4-3 USE OF, TAMPERING WITH RECEPTACLES.
   A.   Prevention Of Scattering. Persons placing litter in public receptacles
or in authorized private receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent
litter from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or
private premises.
(1987 Code, § 27-7-3)
   B.   Tampering Prohibited. No person shall upset or tamper with a public or
private receptacle designed or used for the deposit of litter or cause or
permit its contents to be deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or
private premises.
(1987 Code, § 27-7-4)
§ 4-4-4 PUBLIC WAYS TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any public place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(1987 Code, § 27-7-5)
§ 4-4-5 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   A.   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   B.   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partly loaded truck or
other vehicle within the village unless such vehicle is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any part of its load, contents or litter from being blown
or deposited upon any public place or private premises. Nor shall any person
drive or move any vehicle or truck within the village, the wheels or tires of
which carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(1987 Code, § 27-7-7)
§ 4-4-6 LITTERING FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit any litter within
the village.
(1987 Code, § 27-7-8)
§ 4-4-7 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the village except in
receptacles and in such manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any
other public place or private premises. Where receptacles are not provided, all
such litter shall be removed from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(1987 Code, § 27-7-9)
Cross-reference:
   Littering From Vehicles, see §
4-1-1 G.
§ 4-4-8 DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS.
   A.   Public Property. No person shall deposit or distribute any handbill in
or upon any public property; provided, however, it shall not be unlawful in or
upon any public property for any person to hand out or distribute any handbill
to any person willing to accept it.
   B.   Private Property. No person shall deposit or distribute any handbill in
or upon any private property, except by hand or by transmitting any such
handbill directly to an occupant of such private property who is willing to
accept it.
(1987 Code, § 27-7-10) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 4-4-9 RECEPTACLES AT PARKING LOTS.
   A.   Number Required. All premises having parking lots shall provide, in an
easily accessible location, a minimum of one refuse container for every 50
parking spaces.
   B.   Specifications. Litter receptacles shall have tightfitting lids or tops
and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures as
necessary to prevent spillage. A minimum container size of 20 gallons or 75.7
liters shall be used.
   C.   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter free condition, and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   D.   Use Required. It shall be the duty and obligation of all persons using
parking areas to use such litter receptacles as herein provided for the
purposes intended, and it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
deposit any litter upon any such parking lot.
(1987 Code, § 27-7-10)
§ 4-4-10 LITTER ON PRIVATE PREMISES.
   A.   Owner To Maintain.
      1.   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall, at all
times, maintain the premises free from litter.
      2.   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises. (1987
Code, § 27-7-6)
   B.   Removal By Village. The procedure for the removal of litter from
private premises and the charging of expense thereof as a lien upon such
property to be collected shall be in accordance with state statutes. The
general superintendent and the police chief shall be responsible for the
implementation of this enforcement program.
(1987 Code, § 27-7-11)
CHAPTER 5: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
4-5-1   Regulations
   
4-5-2   Landscape Waste
   
4-5-3   Clean Fuels
   
4-5-4   Special Permit To Burn
§ 4-5-1 REGULATIONS.
   Outdoor burning of any kind of materials is prohibited within the corporate
limits of the village except under the limited conditions of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 27-6-9)
§ 4-5-2 LANDSCAPE WASTE.
   Outdoor burning of grass clippings, leaves, paper, wood or wood products
less than two inches in diameter is permitted during daylight hours (sunrise to
sunset) on a person’s private property if there are not winds or gusts
exceeding 15 mph and such burning occurs at least 30 feet from the nearest
point of any building or combustible structure, unless such burning occurs in a
metallic or other fireproof vessel, and the vessel is at least 15 feet from any
building or combustible structure.
(1987 Code, § 27-6-9)
§ 4-5-3 CLEAN FUELS.
   The burning of wood, charcoal, gas, propane or other clean fuel for the
purpose which is commonly referred to as “weiner roasts,” and burning of wood,
charcoal, gas propane or other clean fuel in a fireplace, grill or the like for
cooking purposes, is permitted at any time.
(1987 Code, § 27-6-9)
§ 4-5-4 SPECIAL PERMIT TO BURN.
   Any burning of materials, other than as permitted in §§
4-5-2 and
4-5-3, may be permitted by special permit issued by the village president and
board of trustees at their discretion, subject to such terms and conditions as
they may require.
(1987 Code, § 27-6-9) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 6: DAMAGED, ABANDONED, INOPERABLE, UNLICENSED VEHICLES
Section
   
4-6-1   Definitions
   
4-6-2   Abandonment Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
   
4-6-3   Maintenance Or Storage Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
   
4-6-4   Abatement From Private Property
   
4-6-5   Abatement From Public Property
   
4-6-6   Hearing
   
4-6-7   Prosecution Of Violators
   
4-6-8   Disposal Of Vehicle
   
4-6-9   Nonliability Of Village And Towing Service
   
4-6-10   Penalty
   
4-6-11   Administrative Fees And Procedures For Impounding Vehicles For
Specified Violations
§ 4-6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is left at any place for such time and
under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have
been abandoned.
   DAMAGED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or non-motor vehicle that has been
wrecked, stripped, junked or disabled. DAMAGED VEHICLE shall not include:
      1.   A motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of
being driven under its own power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations not to exceed 30 days;
      2.   Any motor or non-motor vehicle that is kept within a completely
enclosed building when not in use;
      3.   Operable and licensed historic vehicles over 25 years of age;
      4.   A vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in
wrecking, salvage or junking of vehicles, and such premises is properly zoned
and duly licensed and operating as such place of business;
      5.   A motor or non-motor vehicle on premises which is properly zoned to
permit, and which is regularly and customarily engaged in, a commercial
business involving the commercial sale or repair of vehicles;
      6.   One unlicensed operable vehicle with a “For Sale” sign affixed
thereto for a period not to exceed 30 days in any 12-calendar-month period; and
      7.   Any stationary vehicle used for advertising purposes which is
located on commercially zoned property, and which advertisement on such vehicle
solely advertises the business properly being operated on such commercially
zoned property, provided the owner of such property obtains a permit from the
village to locate such vehicle on such property for such purpose, which permit
may be denied in the village’s sole discretion.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least
seven days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed or on which the
engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power; or any non-motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven
days, the wheels or other parts have been removed or so altered, damaged or
otherwise treated that such vehicle is incapable of being moved in its ordinary
mode of travel. INOPERABLE VEHICLE shall not include:
      1.   A motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of
being driven under its own power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations not to exceed 30 days;
      2.   Any motor or non-motor vehicle that is kept within a completely
enclosed building when not in use;
      3.   Operable and licensed historic vehicles over 25 years of age;
      4.   A vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in
wrecking, salvage or junking of vehicles, and such premises is properly zoned
and duly licensed and operating as such place of business;
      5.   A motor or non-motor vehicle on the premises which is properly zoned
to permit, and which is regularly and customarily engaged in, a commercial
business involving the commercial sale or repair of vehicles; and
      6.   One unlicensed operable vehicle with a “For Sale” sign affixed
thereto for a period not to exceed 30 days in any 12 calendar month period.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power, other than human power,
designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides
and transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
   OCCUPANT. Any adult person occupying the private property where any motor or
non-motor vehicle is found.
   OWNER. Any person or persons who are owners, lessees, bailees or possessors
of any motor or non-motor vehicle.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization or entity of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real private property within the corporate limits of
the village.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real public property within the corporate limits of the
village.
   UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which does not have a current
license and registration sticker affixed to same.
(1987 Code, § 25-4-1)
§ 4-6-2 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the village or on public or
private property, and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the
village on public or private property for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned. All said abandoned vehicles are hereby declared a nuisance.
(1987 Code, § 25-4-2)
§ 4-6-3 MAINTENANCE OR STORAGE PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED.
   A.   Public Property. No person shall maintain, store or permit the storage
on any public property, for a period of seven or more days, any unlicensed
motor vehicle or damaged vehicle or abandoned vehicle or inoperable vehicle.
Such maintenance or storage is hereby declared a nuisance.
   B.   Private Property. No person shall maintain, store or permit the storage
on any private property, for a period of 15 or more days, any unlicensed motor
vehicle, damaged vehicle, abandoned vehicle or inoperable vehicle. Such
maintenance or storage is hereby declared a nuisance.
(1987 Code, § 25-4-3)
§ 4-6-4 ABATEMENT FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   A.   Owner To Abate; Order To Remove.
      1.   Whenever a member of the village police department finds any
inoperable vehicle, damaged vehicle, unlicensed vehicle or abandoned vehicle on
private property, he or she shall issue a written order to the known or unknown
owner of such vehicle directing such owner to abate such nuisance, within ten
days, in one of the following ways:
         a.   Transfer to and store such vehicle in a completely enclosed
building; or
         b.   Permanently remove said vehicle to a location outside the
corporate limits of the village.
      2.   This order shall include the vehicle’s vehicle identification number
(VIN) to the extent it is ascertainable from the vehicle by the officer; the
date of the notice; the date by which the vehicle must be removed or enclosed;
the possible penalties for failing to abate the nuisance; and a statement of
the right to request in writing, within seven days after the date of the order,
a hearing, as referred to in §
4-6-6, on the issue of whether the subject vehicle is an abandoned vehicle,
damaged vehicle, inoperable vehicle or unlicensed vehicle.
      3.   The order shall be effective until said vehicle is placed within a
completely enclosed building or removed from the village corporate limits.
      4.   Notice of such order shall be placed on such vehicle, and copies of
the notice shall be served on any adult occupant of the private property on
which such vehicle is located, and also on the owner of the vehicle, if his or
her name and whereabouts be known. If no occupant of such private property or
owner of such vehicle can be found, such notice affixed to any building on such
private property shall constitute notice to the owner and occupant of such
private property and notice to the owner of such vehicle. If there is no
building on such private property, the notice may be affixed elsewhere on such
private property, and same shall constitute the notice to the occupant of such
private property and notice to the owner of such vehicle.
   B.   Removal By Village; Costs To Owner. If such vehicle is not removed
within ten days pursuant to the order and notice, and if the order is not
stayed by the issuing officer pursuant to a written request showing good cause
for a permanent or temporary stay, the police department shall cause such
vehicle to be removed by a junk or salvage yard or wrecker service, and all
costs and expenses of the removal of said vehicle, the storage of said vehicle,
and the disposal and/or sales charges shall be paid by and recoverable from the
owner(s) of said vehicle, jointly and severally, in a suit at law. The vehicle
shall not be removed from private property without a warrant issued by a court
of competent jurisdiction.
(1987 Code, § 25-4-4)
§ 4-6-5 ABATEMENT FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   A.   Order To Remove.
      1.   Whenever a member of the village police department finds any
inoperable vehicle, damaged vehicle, unlicensed vehicle or abandoned vehicle on
public property, he or she shall issue a written order to the known or unknown
owner of such vehicle directing such owner to abate such nuisance, within seven
days, in one of the following ways:
(1987 Code, § 25-4-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
         a.   Transfer to and store such vehicle in a completely enclosed
building; or
         b.   Permanently remove said vehicle to a location outside the
corporate limits of the village.
      2.   This order shall include the vehicle’s vehicle identification number
(VIN); the date of the notice; the date by which the vehicle must be removed or
enclosed; the possible penalties for failing to abate the nuisance; and a
statement of the right to request in writing, within seven days after the date
of the order, a hearing as referred to in §
4-6-6, on the issue of whether the subject vehicle is an abandoned vehicle,
damaged vehicle, inoperable vehicle or unlicensed vehicle.
      3.   Notice of such order shall be placed on said vehicle.
   B.   Removal By Village; Costs To Owner. If said vehicle is not removed
within seven days pursuant to the order and notice, the police department shall
cause said vehicle to be removed by a junk or salvage yard or wrecker service,
and costs and expenses of the removal of said vehicle, the storage of said
vehicle and the disposal and/or sales charges shall be paid and recoverable
from the owner(s) of said vehicle, jointly and severally, in a suit at law.
(1987 Code, § 25-4-4)
§ 4-6-6 HEARING.
   The owner of the vehicle may request a hearing before a hearing officer
appointed by the village president from time to time, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, on the issue of whether the subject vehicle
is an abandoned vehicle, damaged vehicle, inoperable vehicle, or unlicensed
vehicle. A request for hearing or a request for an extension of time stays the
enforcement of this chapter, pending the hearing and a decision by the hearing
officer or a ruling on the request for an extension of time by the hearing
officer. A hearing requested pursuant to this chapter shall take place within
14 calendar days after the written request for hearing is made. At the hearing,
the hearing officer shall hear the evidence presented by the village and by the
owner(s) and determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, whether the vehicle
at issue is an abandoned vehicle, damaged vehicle, inoperable vehicle or
unlicensed vehicle.
(1987 Code, § 25-4-4-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 4-6-7 PROSECUTION OF VIOLATORS.
   If the owner(s) of an inoperable vehicle, damaged vehicle, unlicensed
vehicle or abandoned vehicle fails to abate the nuisance after having been
served with a written order pursuant to §§
4-6-4 and
4-6-5, or following a requested hearing, the hearing officer determines that
the subject vehicle is an inoperable vehicle, damaged vehicle, unlicensed
vehicle or abandoned vehicle, then the village may file a complaint with a
court of competent jurisdiction seeking an order granting the following relief:
   A.   The issuance of an administrative search and seizure warrant to remove
the vehicle from the property where it may be located;
   B.   A declaration that the owner(s) of the inoperable vehicle, damaged
vehicle, unlicensed vehicle or abandoned vehicle is in violation of §§
4-6-2,
4-6-3,
4-6-4 and
4-6-5;
   C.   A declaration that any search and seizure of an inoperable vehicle,
damaged vehicle, unlicensed vehicle or abandoned vehicle performed pursuant to
an administrative search and seizure warrant was proper and in compliance with
all applicable laws;
(1987 Code, § 25-4-4-2)
   D.   A fine for the owner(s) of any inoperable vehicle, damaged vehicle,
unlicensed vehicle or abandoned vehicle pursuant to §
1-4-1;
(1987 Code, § 25-4-4-2) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   E.   Authorizing the sale of the inoperable vehicle, damaged vehicle,
unlicensed vehicle or abandoned vehicle pursuant to §
4-6-8 unless the owner(s) pays all towing, removal and storage charges;
   F.   Requiring the state secretary of state to issue a certificate of title
for the vehicle to the purchaser of the inoperable vehicle, damaged vehicle,
unlicensed vehicle or abandoned vehicle; and
   G.   For such other, further or different relief favorable to the village.
(1987 Code, § 25-4-4-2)
§ 4-6-8 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE.
   A.   Sale Of Vehicle.
      1.   Notice Of Sale.
         a.   In the event the inoperable vehicle, damaged vehicle, unlicensed
vehicle or abandoned vehicle is removed from the private property of the owner
(s) of the vehicle and placed in storage by, on behalf of, or at the direction
of the village police department, the village shall send notice to the owner(s)
containing the following:
            (1)   The date of the towing;
            (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the entity that
towed the vehicle;
            (3)   The address where the vehicle is being stored;
            (4)   The amount of the towing, removal, and storage charges,
including any per diem charges; and
            (5)   A statement that the vehicle shall be sold by private or
public sale or may be sold to the entity that towed said vehicle for the amount
of the towing, removal and storage charges, as the village shall decide in its
sole discretion, unless the owner(s) pays all applicable towing, removal, and
storage charges within 15 days from the date the notice is mailed to the last
known address of the owner(s).
         b.   Said notice shall be mailed by United States mail, postage
prepaid, to the last known address of the owner(s) of the vehicle.
      2.   Failure To Pay Costs; Sale Of Vehicle. If the owner(s) of the
vehicle does not pay all applicable towing, removal and storage charges within
15 days after the date the notice is mailed, then said vehicle may be sold by
the village at any time thereafter at public or private sale or may be sold to
the entity that towed said vehicle for the cost of the towing, removal and any
applicable storage charges, as the village shall determine in its sole
discretion.
      3.   Proceeds.
         a.   If the sale proceeds are insufficient to pay the costs of sale,
removal and storage expenses, then the owner(s) of said vehicle shall be
jointly and severally liable to the village for the balance of such costs and
expenses, to be recoverable in a suit at law.
         b.   If the sale proceeds are sufficient to pay said costs of sale,
towing, removal, storage expenses, ordinance violation fines, court costs, and/
or expenses, then the balance shall be deposited with the village treasurer and
shall be paid to any one or more of the owner(s) of such vehicle, if known and
located as the village shall determine. The village shall have the right to
deduct from said balance an amount equal to any ordinance violation fine(s),
court costs and/or expenses assessed against the previous owner(s) of said
inoperable vehicle, damaged vehicle, unlicensed vehicle or abandoned vehicle
before making a distribution to said former owner(s) of said vehicle.
   B.   Disposal By Towing Service. If the said inoperable vehicle, damaged
vehicle, unlicensed vehicle or abandoned vehicle is removed from public
property or from private property of some person or entity other than the owner
(s) of said vehicle, then said vehicle shall be disposed of by the entity that
towed the vehicle pursuant to the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 626 ILCS 5/1-100
et seq., as now enacted or hereafter amended, or pursuant to any subsequent
statutory provisions.
(1987 Code, § 25-4-5)
§ 4-6-9 NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE AND TOWING SERVICE.
   The village, its elected and/or appointed officers, agents or employees, the
village president and board of trustees, the village police department and the
members thereof, and the towing service owner or storage service owner,
operator, agent or employee shall not be liable for damages in any action
brought by any owner or former owner or by the owner’s legal and/or personal
representative, successors or assigns, lien holder or any other person legally
entitled to the possession of any vehicle when said vehicle was processed or
disposed of according to this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 25-4-6)
§ 4-6-10 PENALTY.
   In addition to and not in lieu of any of the other penalties or provisions
set forth in this chapter, any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in §
1-4-1 of this code for each separate offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed to occur on each day on or during which a violation is deemed to exist
or continues.
(1987 Code, § 25-4-7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 4-6-11 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND PROCEDURES FOR IMPOUNDING VEHICLES FOR
SPECIFIED VIOLATIONS.
   A.   Pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-208.7, the village may, consistent with such
statute, provide for procedures for the release of properly impounded vehicles
and for the imposition of a reasonable administrative fee related to its
administrative and processing costs associated with the investigation, arrest
and detention of an offender, or the removal, impoundment, storage and release
of the vehicle. The administrative fee imposed by the village may be and is in
addition to any fees charged for the towing and storage of an impounded
vehicle. Such administrative fee will be waived by the village upon verifiable
proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded.
   B.   The village hereby establishes an administrative fee in the amount of
$500 plus such additional amount that is charged by third parties associated
with the towing and storage of vehicles under this chapter sufficient to cover
the village’s administrative and processing costs associated with the removal,
impoundment, storage and release of each such vehicle.
   C.   Such administrative fee for the release of properly impounded vehicles
under this chapter may only be imposed for the following violations:
      1.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to the Criminal Code of 2012 § 36-1, being 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et
seq.;
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination thereof in violation of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1- 100 et seq.;
      3.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act, being
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.;
      4.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, being 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.;
      5.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Criminal Code of 1961 §§ 24-
1, 24-1.5 or 24-3.1 or the Criminal Code of 2012 § 36-1, being 720 ILCS 5/1-
1 et seq.;
      6.   Driving while a driver’s license, permit or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to the Illinois Vehicle Code §
6-303, being 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.; except that vehicles shall not be
subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation
(parking or moving) or due to failure to comply with emission testing;
      7.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act;
      8.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s
license, in violation of the Illinois Vehicle Code § 6-303, being 625 ILCS 5/1-
100 et seq., if the period of expiration is greater than one year;
      9.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver’s license or permit, in violation of the state vehicle code § 6-101,
or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver’s license
or permit due to a person’s age;
      10.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in the state for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated the state vehicle code §§ 6-101, 6-303 or 11-
501;
      11.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Criminal Code of 1961 Article
16 or 16A or the Criminal Code of 2012;
      12.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012, when so provided by local
ordinance; or
      13.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of the state
vehicle code § 11-503:
         a.   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
         b.   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession.
   D.   The following shall apply to any administrative fees imposed pursuant
to subsection C. above.
      1.   All administrative fees and towing and storage charges shall be
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that
owner.
      2.   The fees shall be in addition to:
         a.   Any other penalties that may be assessed by a court of law for
the underlying violations; and
         b.   Any towing or storage fees, or both, charged by the towing
company.
      3.   The fees shall be uniform for all similarly situated vehicles.
      4.   The fees shall be collected by and paid to the village.
      5.   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid
to the person, firm or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
      6.   The administrative fee shall be waived by the village upon
verifiable proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time the vehicle was
impounded.
   E.   This chapter hereby establishes procedures for the release of properly
impounded vehicles under this chapter and provides for an opportunity for a
hearing, as provided in 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3(b)(4) which statutory subdivision
is incorporated herein by reference; and further establishes procedures for the
release of the vehicle to the owner of record, lessee or a lienholder of record
upon payment of all administrative fees and towing and storage fees.
   F.   The following provisions concerning notice of impoundment shall apply
for the impoundment and release of vehicles under this chapter.
      1.   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle
is subject to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of the
vehicle to a facility authorized by the village.
      2.   At the time the vehicle is towed, the village shall notify or make a
reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee or person identifying himself or
herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to be
in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the fact of
the seizure, and of the vehicle owner’s or lessee’s right to an administrative
hearing.
      3.   The village shall also provide notice that the motor vehicle will
remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless
the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder posts with the village a
bond equal to the administrative fee as provided by ordinance and pays for all
towing and storage charges.
   G.   The registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and any lienholder of
record shall be provided with a notice of hearing. The notice shall:
      1.   Be served upon the owner, lessee and any lienholder of record either
by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party’s address as
registered with the secretary of state;
      2.   Be served upon interested parties within ten days after a vehicle is
impounded by the village; and
      3.   Contain the date, time and location of the administrative hearing.
An initial hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than 45 days after
the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
   H.   In addition to the requirements contained in 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3(b)(4)
relating to administrative hearings, the following requirements shall also
apply concerning any such administrative hearings:
      1.   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by a hearing officer who
is an attorney licensed to practice law in the state for a minimum of three
years;
      2.   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing officer
shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment;
      3.   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
administrative hearing officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the
release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the village;
      4.   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to direct appeal to the circuit court of the fourth judicial circuit,
in Taylorville, Christian County, Illinois, having jurisdiction over the
village, if such appeal is made in writing within 30 calendar days following
issuance of the final decision of the administrative hearing officer;
      5.   Unless the administrative hearing officer overturns the basis for
the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee or
lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid; and
      6.   If the administrative hearing officer finds that the village
exceeded its authority under this chapter, the village shall be liable to the
registered owner or lessee of the vehicle for the cost of storage fees and
reasonable attorney’s fees.
   I.   Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility
within 35 days after the administrative hearing officer issues a written
decision shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code Article II of Chapter 4, being 625 ILCS
5/1-100 et seq.
   J.   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fine, penalty
or administrative fee imposed under this chapter which remains unpaid in whole
or in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review,
pursuant to subsection H.4. above, may be enforced in the same manner as a
judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 865, passed 8-12-2019)
TITLE 5: POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
   Chapter
      
1.    POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
2.    EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
2A.    EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA)
         
2B.    CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
3.    ANIMAL CONTROL
      
4.    GENERAL OFFENSES
      
5.    WEAPONS
      
6.    MINORS
      
7.    FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
5-1-1   Established
   
5-1-2   Chief Of Police
   
5-1-3   Additional Police Officers
   
5-1-4   Qualifications
   
5-1-5   Compensation
   
5-1-6   Duties Of Police Officers
   
5-1-7   Legal Processes
   
5-1-8   Serve As Witnesses; Fees Prohibited
   
5-1-9   Aid To Fire Department
   
5-1-10   Removal From Department
   
5-1-11   Mutual Aid Contract
   
5-1-12   Special Police
   
5-1-13   Assisting Police Required
   
5-1-14   Obstructing Police, Aiding In Escape Prohibited
   
5-1-15   Rules And Regulations
§ 5-1-1 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
village which shall be known as the police department. The police department
shall be under the control and supervision of the mayor and board of trustees.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-1)
§ 5-1-2 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   A.   Office Established; Appointment. There is hereby established the office
of the chief of police. The chief shall be appointed by the mayor, with the
advice and consent of the village board.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-2)
   B.   Duties. The chief of police shall:
      1.   Keep records and make reports concerning the activities of his or
her department as may be required;
      2.   Be responsible for the performance of the police department and all
its functions, and all persons who are members of the department shall serve
subject to the orders of the chief of police;
(1987 Code, § 30-2-3)
      3.   Attend all meetings of the village board, execute all orders of the
board and close the board chamber upon the adjournment of that body. He or she
shall also execute all warrants or other legal processes required to be
executed by him or her under any ordinance of the village or laws of the state;
and
(1987 Code, § 30-2-7)
      4.   Be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or stolen property in the
village.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-17)
§ 5-1-3 ADDITIONAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   A.   General. The mayor and board of trustees may determine, from time to
time, to add a full-time or part-time police officer or full-time or part-time
police officers to the police department. If a decision to add a police officer
or police officers is made, then such police officer or police officers shall
be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the village
board, and they shall severally hold office for such time, not to exceed one
year, as may be designated at the time of their appointment, and shall each,
before entering into the performance of their duties, take the oath or
affirmation required by law.
   B.   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such duties as may be established under §
5-1-6 , but the number of hours a part-time police officer may work within a
calendar year is restricted. Part-time police officers shall not be assigned to
supervise or direct full-time police officers. Full-time and part-time police
officers shall be trained in accordance with the Illinois Police Training Act,
being 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq., and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards And Qualifications. Any person employed as a full-time
or as a part-time police officer must meet the following standards and
qualifications:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      2.   Be at least 21 years of age;
      3.   Pass a medical examination;
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      5.   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions;
      7.   Any individual who has served in the United States military must
have been honorably discharged; and
      8.   Must meet the additional qualifications as set forth in §
5-1-4.
   D.   Discipline. Full-time and part-time officers shall be under the
disciplinary jurisdiction of the chief of police and the village board. Full-
time and part-time police officers serve at the discretion of the village
board, shall not have any property rights in said employment and may be removed
by the village board at any time with or without cause. Full-time and part-time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and orders issued by the
chief of police and/or by the village board
(Ord. 787, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 5-1-4 QUALIFICATIONS.
   All members of the police department shall be both when appointed and while
serving as an village police officer are subject to the following residential
requirements:
   A.   Part-time village police officers may reside outside the corporate
limits of the village both at the time of his, her, or their appointment and
while serving as a part-time police officer;
   B.   The appointed full-time chief of police shall be a qualified elector
and resident of the village both when appointed and while serving as the chief
of police; provided, however, any hereafter appointed full-time chief of police
shall have 90 days from the date of his or her initial appointment to become a
qualified elector and resident of the village; and provided, further, that such
90-day period may be extended, from time to time, for an additional reasonable
specified time period by an affirmative vote of the village’s corporate
authorities for good cause shown as may be determined in the sole discretion of
the village’s corporate authorities; and
   C.   Except for the chief of police, all other full-time police officers
must reside within a ten-mile radius of the corporate limits of the village
within 90 days from the date of his or her initial appointment.
(Ord. 824, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 5-1-5 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the police department shall receive such compensation as may be
provided by the village board pursuant to motion or resolution from time to
time.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-6)
§ 5-1-6 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   A.   All police officers shall devote his, her, or their entire time to the
performance of the duties of his, her, or their office, and are hereby charged
with the preservation of the peace, order and safety of the village, and with
the duty of protecting the rights of persons and property, and of enforcing all
laws and all orders of the village board of trustees. Notwithstanding the
above, the village board of trustees may from time to time by affirmative
majority motion allow the police chief to work as a part-time employee of the
county sheriff’s office in the capacity of a part-time county deputy sheriff,
provided that:
      1.   The police chief’s duties and responsibilities and full-time work
schedule for the village are not diminished or adversely effected;
      2.   The part-time work schedule as a deputy sheriff is approved from
time to time by the village president;
      3.   The county sheriff’s office provides to the village president from
time to time a certificate of liability and worker’s compensation insurance in
such amounts satisfactory to the village president that evidences that the
police chief is afforded liability and worker’s compensation insurance
protection and benefits concerning his or her duties, responsibilities and work
as a part-time employee of the county sheriff’s office;
      4.   During the course of such part-time work, the police chief shall not
wear any uniform or insignia or equipment or display any badge or police
identification that signifies that he or she is also a police officer;
      5.   The police chief complies with such other terms and conditions
determined from time to time concerning the initial approval for, and/or the
continued approval for, any such part-time work as a county deputy sheriff; and
      6.   The village board of trustees can rescind any such approval for such
part-time work from time to time for any or no reason whatsoever.
   B.   All police officers shall take notice of all nuisances, obstructions
and defects on the highways or other public places, and shall cause the same to
be abated or removed, or immediate notice thereof given to the proper officer
whose duty it may be to take action in relation thereto.
   C.   All members of the police department shall perform such other duties as
may be established in writing by the mayor and village board from time to time.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-7) (Ord. 859, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 5-1-7 LEGAL PROCESSES.
   All police shall have the power and authority to execute village warrants or
other like legal processes without the corporate limits of the village and
within such distance therefrom as authorized by law, in all cases when any
ordinances of the village board made pursuant to law shall prescribe a penalty
for the violation of any of its provisions by persons residing, acting or doing
business within the limits of the village.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-10)
§ 5-1-8 SERVE AS WITNESSES; FEES PROHIBITED.
   Any member of the police department shall appear as witness whenever this is
necessary in a prosecution for a violation of this code or of any state or
federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness
in any action or suit to which the village is a party, and fees paid for such
services shall be turned over to the chief of police, who shall deposit the
same with the village treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-15)
§ 5-1-9 AID TO FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Every police officer shall aid the fire department by giving the alarm in
case of fire, and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity
of any fire so that the firefighters shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of his, her or their duties.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-13)
§ 5-1-10 REMOVAL FROM DEPARTMENT.
   Any member of the police department who shall neglect or refuse to perform
any duty required of him or her by this code or the rules and regulations of
the department, or who shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties,
be guilty of any fraud, favoritism, extortion, oppression or willful wrong or
injustice, shall be subject to removal from office.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-12)
§ 5-1-11 MUTUAL AID CONTRACT.
   The police department, with the approval of the mayor and village board, may
enter into an agreement to provide police protection to neighboring
municipalities.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-8)
§ 5-1-12 SPECIAL POLICE.
   The mayor may, on special occasions when, in his or her judgment, public
peace and order of the village shall require, appoint and commission any number
of special police as may be necessary and shall fix, in order of their
appointment, the time during which each shall serve; and all such special
police, during such time, shall possess the powers and exercise the duties of
regular police officers; provided, that their appointment, if for more than ten
days, shall be subject to the consent of the village board in the manner that
other appointments to office by the mayor are subject.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-9)
§ 5-1-13 ASSISTING POLICE REQUIRED.
   Every police officer of the village may, at any time, call upon any able
bodied person above the age of 18 years to aid him or her in the arresting or
retaking or holding in custody of any person guilty of or having committed any
unlawful act or charged therewith, or to aid such officer in preventing the
commission of any unlawful act.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-11) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 5-1-14 OBSTRUCTING POLICE, AIDING IN ESCAPE PROHIBITED.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to resist or
obstruct any member of the police force in the discharge of his or her duty, or
to endeavor to, in any manner, assist any person in the custody of any member
of the police force to escape or to attempt to escape from such custody, or to
attempt to rescue any such person in custody.
   B.   Any person in violation of this section shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined as provided in §
1-4-1 for each separate offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation or failure occurs or
continues.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-14) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 5-1-15 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The chief of police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
conduct and guidance of the members of the police department as he or she shall
deem advisable, and such rules, when approved by the mayor and village board,
shall be binding upon such members.
(1987 Code, § 30-2-16)
CHAPTER 2: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE A: EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA)
Section
   
5-2A-1   Established
   
5-2A-2   Coordinator
   
5-2A-3   Functions
   
5-2A-4   Service As Mobile Support Team
   
5-2A-5   Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
   
5-2A-6   Emergency Action
   
5-2A-7   Compensation
   
5-2A-8   Reimbursement By State
   
5-2A-9   Purchases And Expenditures
   
5-2A-10   Oath Of Office
   
5-2A-11   Office
   
5-2A-12   Appropriation; Tax Levy
§ 5-2A-1 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created the village ESDA to prevent, minimize, repair and
alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage or other hostile action, or from natural or human-made disaster, in
accordance with the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act, being 20 ILCS
3305/1 et seq., and any amendments thereto. The ESDA shall consist of the
coordinator and such additional members as may be selected by the coordinator.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
§ 5-2A-2 COORDINATOR.
   A.   Appointment; Term. The coordinator of the village ESDA shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees,
and shall serve until removed by the same.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-2) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Powers And Duties. The coordinator shall have direct responsibility for
the organization, administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject
to the direction and control of the mayor, as provided by statute.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-2)
§ 5-2A-3 FUNCTIONS.
   The ESDA shall coordinate and may perform such ESDA functions within the
village as are prescribed in and by the state emergency operations plan, and
programs, orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the village,
by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act, being 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.,
and by village ordinance, and in addition, shall conduct such functions outside
the village corporate limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid
agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality, or quasi-
municipality entered into as provided in the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency Act, and any amendments thereto.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 5-2A-4 SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   A.   Members Designated. All or any members of the ESDA organization may be
designated as members of a mobile support team created by the director of the
state EMA, as provided by law.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Team Leader. The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated
by the coordinator of the ESDA organization.
   C.   Compensation; Powers And Duties. Any member of a mobile support team
who is a village employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the
governor, or the state director, shall receive the compensation and have the
powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment or office.
Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the village while so
serving shall receive from the state reasonable compensation as provided by
law.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-4)
§ 5-2A-5 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
villages or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the mayor.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-5)
§ 5-2A-6 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or from human-made or
natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the ESDA to cooperate fully with the
state EMA and with the governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided
by law.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-6) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 5-2A-7 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the state director of EMA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such village employees or officers shall receive for
such training such compensation as may be established by the mayor.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 5-2A-8 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The village treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the state director of EMA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the governor or state director of
EMA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident
to ESDA activities as provided by law.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-8) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 5-2A-9 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   A.   The mayor may, on recommendation of the village coordinator of ESDA,
authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the village in a
position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster, or from human-made or natural disaster.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-9)
   B.   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the village coordinator
of ESDA is authorized on behalf of the village to procure such services,
supplies, equipment or materials as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act, being 20 ILCS 3305/
1 et seq., and amendments thereto; provided, that if the mayor and village
board of trustees meet at such time, the coordinator shall act subject to the
directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-9) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 5-2A-10 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the village ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the coordinator:
 
I, _______________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States of America, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the
territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am affiliated with the ESDA organization, I will not
advocate, nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence.
 
(1987 Code, § 30-3-10)
§ 5-2A-11 OFFICE.
   The mayor is authorized to designate space in the village building, or
elsewhere as may be provided for by the mayor, for the village ESDA as its
office.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-11)
§ 5-2A-12 APPROPRIATION; TAX LEVY.
   The village corporate authorities may make an appropriation for ESDA
purposes in the manner provided by law, and may levy in addition, for ESDA
purposes only, a tax not to exceed $0.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all
taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by 65 ILCS 5/8-3-
16; however, that amount collectable under such levy shall in no event exceed
$0.25 per capita.
(1987 Code, § 30-3-12) (Amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE B: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
5-2B-1   Definitions
   
5-2B-2   Declaration Of Emergency
   
5-2B-3   Curfew
   
5-2B-4   Emergency Orders
   
5-2B-5   Duration Of Proclamation; Renewal; Extension
   
5-2B-6   Notice Requirements
§ 5-2B-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      1.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force
or violence or any power to execute by three or more persons acting together
without authority of law; or
      2.   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village,
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to the civil emergency.
(1987 Code, § 30-1-1)
§ 5-2B-2 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an emergency, as defined in §
5-2B-1 exists, the mayor shall declare the existence by means of a written
declaration, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency.
(1987 Code, § 30-1-2)
§ 5-2B-3 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or to the
village as a whole as he or she deems advisable and applicable during such
hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the
public safety and welfare.
(1987 Code, § 30-1-3)
§ 5-2B-4 EMERGENCY ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the mayor may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   A.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   B.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   C.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   D.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or giving
away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever; and
   E.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(1987 Code, § 30-1-4)
§ 5-2B-5 DURATION OF PROCLAMATION; RENEWAL; EXTENSION.
   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of 48
hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the mayor indicating that
the civil emergency no longer exists. The mayor shall have the power to
reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each 48-hour period
during the time the civil emergency exists.
(1987 Code, § 30-1-5)
§ 5-2B-6 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the mayor shall notify the
news media situated within the village and shall cause three copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the village:
   A.   Village hall;
   B.   Post office; and
   C.   County courthouse.
(1987 Code, § 30-1-6)
CHAPTER 3: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
5-3-1   Definitions
   
5-3-2   Restraint Of Dog Required/Running At Large
   
5-3-3   Cruelty To Animals
   
5-3-4   Nuisance Dogs And Cats
   
5-3-5   Damage To Property
   
5-3-6   Dangerous Dogs And Vicious Dogs
   
5-3-7   Diseased Animals
   
5-3-8   Number Of Dogs And Cats
   
5-3-9   Animal Houses And Fences
   
5-3-10   Rabies Control
   
5-3-10-1   Dogs
   
5-3-10-2   Cats
   
5-3-11   Impoundment And Redemption Of Dogs Or Cats
   
5-3-12   Livestock
   
5-3-13   Methods Of Enforcement
   
5-3-14   Interference With Enforcement Official Prohibited
   
5-3-15   Penalties
§ 5-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. Felis catus. Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The village’s chief of police.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      1.   Any individual dog anywhere, other than upon the property of the
owner or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed or unattended by its
owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or a companion animal; or
      2.   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not cause
serious physical injury.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The department of agriculture of the state.
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection of a dog or cat with an anti-
rabies vaccine approved by a licensed veterinarian or anti-rabies clinic for
use in the prevention of rabies.
   KEEP OR HARBOR/KEEPING OR HARBORING. Habitually permitting to remain or to
be lodged or to be fed within the house, store, yard, enclosure or other place.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap or chain, which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   LIVESTOCK. Any one or more cows, horses, sheep, swine, goats, chickens,
ducks, turkeys, rabbits, geese and/or bees.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   OWN, OWNING, KEEPS. Unless otherwise indicated in the text, shall be deemed
to mean and include own, keep, harbor or have charge, custody or control of a
dog or dogs or cat or cats.
   OWNER or KEEPER. A person having a right of property in a dog or cat or
other animal, or keeps or harbors a dog or cat or other animal, or who has a
dog or cat or other animal in his or her care, or who acts as its custodian, or
who knowingly permits a dog or cat or other animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied by him or her. OWNER or KEEPER does not include a feral cat
caretaker participating in a trap, spay/neuter, return or release program.
   PARENT. Stepparent, foster parent, natural parent, adoptive parent or
guardian.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society, or
association, or other legal entity or any other business unit.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this chapter if
the dog is controlled by a leash or other recognized control methods; or the
dog is within the property limits of the owner or keeper of the dog.
   RUNNING AT LARGE or RUN AT LARGE. Any dog, not under restraint, that is off
the property limits of his or her owner or keeper.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. A physical injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious disfigurement, protracted impairment of
health, impairment of the function of any bodily organ or plastic surgery.
   VACCINATED or VACCINATION. The inoculation of a dog or cat with a vaccine
approved by a licensed veterinarian or anti-rabies clinic for use in the
prevention of rabies.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes
a serious physical injury or death or any individual dog that has been found to
be a DANGEROUS DOG upon two separate occasions.
   VILLAGE. The village of Edinburg, Christian County, Illinois, a municipal
corporation, and its corporate limits as they exist from time to time.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-2 RESTRAINT OF DOG REQUIRED/RUNNING AT LARGE.
   A.   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep such dog under restraint at all
times.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of a dog to permit such
dog to be running at large. For purposes hereof, the owner or keeper of a dog
who fails to keep such dog under restraint is deemed to have permitted such dog
to run at large.
   C.   In addition to any other obligations, fines and penalties as provided
in this chapter, any owner of a non-vicious or non-dangerous dog who is
convicted under this chapter for allowing such dog to run at large on three
separate occasions shall not be allowed to own or keep such dog within the
village and must permanently remove such dog from the village, unless such dog
owner installs and maintains an underground electric fence that covers the
entire perimeter of his or her property and is designed to prevent the escape
of such dog from outside such aboveground non-visible electric fence enclosure
while such dog is on the property of the dog owner.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-3 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cruelly treat any animal in the
village in any way.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhumanely beat, underfeed,
overload or abandon any animal.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-4 NUISANCE DOGS AND CATS.
   A.   Any dog or cat which may, in any manner, continually disturb the quiet
of any person or neighborhood or shall destroy or in any manner injure any
animal, plant, shrub or other property not on the premises of its owner or
keeper is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and in addition thereto, any
such dog may be taken up and impounded and may be redeemed or disposed of in
the manner provided under this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to knowingly keep or
harbor any dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps, or any cat which
habitually cries or howls to the discomfort of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood, or in such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in
the neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs and cats are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance; and in addition thereto, any such dog
or cat may be taken up and impounded and may be redeemed or disposed of in the
manner provided under this chapter.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-5 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or keeping a dog or cat to permit
such dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway, boulevard, or private lands
or premises without the permission of the owner of such premises and break,
bruise, tear up, crush or injure any lawn, flowerbed, plant, shrub, tree or
garden in any manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon. This section shall not
apply to a person who is visually or physically handicapped,
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-6 DANGEROUS DOGS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep or maintain a
vicious dog within the village. The owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall
permanently remove such vicious dog from the village and it shall be unlawful
for any owner or keeper to keep or maintain such viscous dog anywhere within
the village.
   B.   After a dog has been determined to be a vicious dog within the village
by the chief of police or his or her delegate, the owner or keeper of such
vicious dog and any member of his or her household shall be thereafter
permanently prohibited from owning or keeping or maintaining any dog anywhere
within the village.
   C.   After a dog has been determined to be a dangerous dog within the
village by the chief of police or his or her delegate, it shall thereafter be
unlawful for the owner or keeper of such dangerous dog to keep or maintain such
dangerous dog anywhere within the village unless such dog is:
      1.   Kept in a fenced enclosure of at least six feet in height that is
securely enclosed and locked and designed with secure sides, top and bottom and
shall be designed to prevent such dangerous dog from escaping from such
enclosure; or
      2.   When such dangerous dog is not within such fenced enclosure, such
dangerous dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a leash not exceeding six
feet in length and shall be under the direct control and supervision of the
owner or keeper of such dangerous dog.
   D.   Upon a violation of the preceding subsection C. above, the owner or
keeper of such dangerous dog shall permanently remove such dangerous dog from
the corporate limits of the village and it shall be unlawful for any owner or
keeper to keep or maintain such dangerous dog anywhere within the corporate
limits of the village; and the owner or keeper of such dangerous dog and any
member of his or her household shall be thereafter permanently prohibited from
owning or keeping or maintaining any dog anywhere within the corporate limits
of the village.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-7 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a domestic animal afflicted with a
contagious disease or an infectious disease to expose such diseased animal to
any public place whereby the health of any person or any animal may be
affected.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for an owner to ship or remove such diseased
animal from the premises of the owner thereof, except under the supervision of
a state-licensed veterinarian.
   C.   The owner of such diseased animal shall retain an state-licensed
veterinarian to secure the immediate removal from the village and the
disposition of such diseased animal and the treatment of affected premises so
as to prevent the communication and spread of contagion or infection.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-8 NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
   A.   Number Of Dogs And Cats Restricted.
      1.   Number Restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person or for
persons in any household to own or keep more than a total of five dogs or five
cats within the village, with the exception, that a litter of pups or a litter
of kittens or a portion of a litter may be kept for a period of time not
exceeding five months from birth.
      2.   Exemptions. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any
business establishment wherein dogs or cats are regularly kept for commercial
breeding, sale, sporting purposes or boarding.
   B.   Nuisance Declared. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs or cats
in the village detracts from and in many instances is detrimental to the
healthful and comfortable life of residents of the village. The keeping of an
unlimited number of dogs or cats is, therefore, declared to be a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-9 ANIMAL HOUSES AND FENCES.
   A.   Pens, Yards and Runs. All pens, yards, runs or other structures wherein
any animal is kept shall be of such construction so as to be easily cleaned and
kept in good repair; and shall be kept clean and free of any fecal or urine
odor or smell.
   B.   Fences. Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall be
securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good repair
and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-10 RABIES CONTROL.
§ 5-3-10-1 DOGS.
   A.   Inoculation And Tag Required.
      1.   Each calendar year, or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the department of agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
four months or more of age shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies. Every dog shall have a second rabies vaccination within one year of the
first. Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered tag
evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog.
      2.   The inoculation of dogs required by subsection A.1. above shall be
performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his or her profession in
the state. Upon performing such inoculation, such veterinarian shall issue to
the owner or keeper a certificate showing such fact and shall also deliver to
the owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag to be attached to the
collar or harness of the dog, which tag shall also certify to the fact of the
inoculation against rabies.
      3.   The tag issued under the provisions of subsection A.2. above shall
be in such form as shall be determined by the department of agriculture.
   B.   Duration Of Inoculation. The inoculation performed under the provisions
of subsection A.2. above shall be effective until the expiration of the
calendar year in which the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such
period of time as may be promulgated by the department of agriculture.
   C.   Exhibition Of Certificate. At any reasonable time upon request of any
member of the police department, the owner or keeper of any unmuzzled dog shall
exhibit his or her certificate, issued under the provisions of subsection A.2.
above, showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or controlled by
him or her.
   D.   Quarantine Provisions.
      1.   Dog That Has Bitten A Person. All dogs as are shown to have bitten
any person shall be quarantined by or at the direction of the chief of police
or his or her delegate(s) for a period of ten days after the date of the bite.
      2.   Quarantine shall be accomplished by impoundment during the
quarantine period. Such quarantine dog may be redeemed at the end of the ten-
day quarantine period by its owner or keeper only after complying with
subsection A.1. above and upon paying all impounding fees and costs.
      3.   Rabies Outbreak. Whenever the chief of police or his or her delegate
determines that danger from rabies exists in the village, a quarantine of all
dogs within the village may be declared. During the period of quarantine, all
dog owners or keepers shall keep their dog or dogs confined in an enclosure
from which escape is impossible or on a leash or chain of indestructible
material. In the event a dog or dogs are not confined, then they may be
impounded by the chief of police or his or her delegate for the period of the
quarantine and may be recovered only after compliance with subsection A.1.
above and upon paying all impoundment fees. The quarantine period may be
terminated by the chief of police or his or her delegate at any time after
which it is determined there is no danger from rabies, and the termination of
such quarantine period is mandatory after any six-month period during which
time no rabies has existed in the village.
§ 5-3-10-2 CATS.
   A.   Vaccination And Tag Required. Any person owning a cat shall have such
cat vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian no less than once each
year, and the owner shall cause to be securely fastened about the neck of the
cat at all times a band or strap to which shall be securely fastened a metal
rabies tag evidencing such current rabies vaccination.
   B.   Unlawful Tampering With Tag.
      1.   Removal Of Tag. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or
cause to be removed, the collar, harness or metallic rabies vaccination tag
from any cat.
      2.   Use Of Another Cat’s Tag. It shall be unlawful for an owner of a cat
to permit or allow such cat to wear or to be displayed on such cat a rabies
vaccination tag issued for another cat for a rabies vaccination.
   C.   Rabies Suspects.
      1.   Observation. When any person owning a cat has been notified by any
person injured, or by someone in his or her behalf, or by someone with
knowledge of said injury, that said person has been bitten or attacked by said
cat, or when any person owning a cat has been notified by any person that said
cat has been bitten by a rabid animal, the owner shall immediately place the
cat under the care and observation of a licensed veterinarian with the expense
thereof to be borne by the owner of such cat, and failure of the owner to
submit said cat within 24 hours after notice of said bite or attack to a
licensed veterinarian constitutes a violation of this section. The owner of
such cat shall cause said cat to be impounded for such care and observation for
a period of ten days.
      2.   Destruction Of Rabid Cat. If the cat is determined by the licensed
veterinarian to have rabies, then the owner shall cause such cat to be
destroyed by the licensed veterinarian and shall permit the licensed
veterinarian to dispose of the cat’s remains as required by law.
      3.   Release Of Cat. Before any such cat shall be released, the person to
whom it is released shall submit proof, in the form of a certificate issued by
a licensed veterinarian or other person authorized by law to administer rabies
inoculation, that such cat does not have rabies and has been properly
inoculated for rabies. The impounded cat may then be released by a licensed
veterinarian.
      4.   No Rabies Tag. Any cat found within the village and not displaying a
metal rabies tag which evidences a current rabies vaccination may be
immediately humanely destroyed by any member of the village police department.
   D.   Liability Of Parent. The parent of any minor claiming to be an owner or
keeper of any cat shall be deemed to be the owner of such cat and shall be
charged for all penalties, fees and fines imposed by this section.
   E.   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-11 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION OF DOGS OR CATS.
   A.   Places Of Impoundment Designated. The village may designate, from time
to time, a suitable place or places for the impoundment of dogs or cats or may
use the pound used by the animal control officer for the county or may use any
other available dog or cat pound provided by any other governmental entity or
may use any veterinarian facility or any other animal control facility willing
to accept impounded dogs or cats.
   B.   Authority To Impound Dogs. Any member of the village police department
or its delegate(s) shall take up and impound any dangerous dog or any vicious
dog or any dog required to be quarantined under this chapter or may take up and
impound any dog found running at large or any dog not having all required tags
fastened to the dog’s collar or any dog or cat deemed a public nuisance under
this chapter.
   C.   Safety. If any dangerous dog or vicious dog found at large cannot be
safely taken up or impounded, such dog may be slain by any member of the
village police department or its delegate(s).
   D.   Citation. When dogs are found running at large or not having all
required tags fastened to the dog’s collar, any member of the village police
department may, at his or her discretion, also cite the owner or keeper of such
dog to answer charges of violation of this chapter, regardless of whether or
not such dog or cat or animal is impounded or not. Such owner or keeper so
cited shall be subject to the fines set forth in §
5-3-15 .
   E.   Redemption Of Impounded Dog; Costs.
      1.   Any dog impounded under the provisions of this chapter, except such
as may have bitten any person specified in §
5-3-10-1D.1., shall, unless sooner redeemed, be held for the period of at least
three days in order to afford opportunity to the owner or keeper thereof to
redeem the same. Any such owner or keeper desiring to redeem his or her
impounded dog shall pay all costs incurred regarding the impoundment and
boarding of such dog.
      2.   In case such dog has not been inoculated against rabies for the
current year, such owner shall also advance the fee required to have the dog
inoculated by a duly licensed veterinarian as he or she shall elect, and the
poundkeeper shall forthwith cause the dog to be duly inoculated against rabies.
No dog shall be released without having been inoculated for the current
calendar year or in accordance with the requirements of the department of
agriculture. Upon payment of the required charges, the dog shall thereupon be
released to the owner or keeper.
   F.   Destruction Of Unredeemed Dog. Any impounded dog which shall not be
redeemed within seven business days (or after the quarantine period referred to
in §
5-3-10-1 D.1. and
5-3-10-1 D.2.) may be humanely destroyed (euthanized) or otherwise disposed of
by the poundkeeper or veterinarian. The owner or keeper of an impounded dog
shall pay all impoundment fees and all veterinarian fees and costs and
euthanasia and disposition of remains fees and costs, euthanized.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-12 LIVESTOCK.
   A.   Prohibited; Exceptions. Except as may be permitted under the
circumstances set forth in subsections B., C. and D. below, no person shall
keep within the village any livestock.
   B.   Chickens And Rabbits.
      1.   Any person may keep any chicken and/or rabbit, for nonbusiness
purposes only, within the village, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The combined total of chickens and/or rabbits on any person’s
premises shall not exceed 30 at any one time;
         b.   Such chickens and/or rabbits shall be kept and contained in an
outside enclosed cage which shall be maintained in a clean and healthy manner;
and
         c.   No neighbor owning or occupying any property within a one square
block area of the premises where such chickens and/or rabbits are kept objects
in writing to the presence of such chickens and/or rabbits; provided, however,
if any neighbor objects in writing, and said objection is found to be
reasonable by a review committee established by the village board of trustees
from time to time, then such chickens and/or rabbits will not be allowed. The
decision of such review committee shall be final and binding.
      2.   It shall be deemed a violation of this section if any such chicken
and/or rabbit is kept contrary hereto.
   C.   Existing Horses And Cows.
      1.   Any person who was keeping any horse or cow on his or her premises
on November 23, 2007 shall be permitted to keep such horse or cow during the
remaining life of such horse or cow, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Such horse and/or cow shall be kept and contained in an outside
enclosure on such person’s premises;
         b.   The premises where such horse and/or cow is kept shall be
maintained in a clean and healthy manner;
         c.   No additional horses and/or cows shall be brought into or kept
within the village by such person or persons; and
         d.   No neighbor owning or occupying any property within one square
block area of the premises where such horse and/or cow is kept objects in
writing to the presence of such horse and/or cow; provided, however, if any
neighbor objects in writing, and said objection is found to be reasonable by a
review committee established by the village board of trustees from time to
time, then such horse and/or cow will not be allowed. The decision of such
review committee shall be final and binding.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any such horse or
cow in violation or contrary to this section.
   D.   Special Events. Livestock may be temporarily kept within the village
for special events such as rodeos, 4-H projects, Labor Day celebrations, fairs,
and the like, but only for the duration of such special event.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-13 METHODS OF ENFORCEMENT.
   A.   Tranquilizer Gun. Any member of the village police department or its
delegates are authorized to use an animal tranquilizer gun or animal traps or
cages in the furtherance of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Killing Dangerous Animal. The chief of police or his or her delegate is
authorized to kill any dangerous dog or any vicious dog or any animal or
reptile of any kind when necessary for the protection of any person.
   C.   Private Premises. Any member of the village police department or its
delegates may enter upon private premises, provided that the entry shall not be
made into any building that is a person’s residence, to apprehend a straying
dog or other animal, a dangerous dog or a vicious dog or other animal, or an
animal thought to be infected with rabies. If, after request therefor, the
owner of the dog or other animal shall refuse to deliver the dog or other
animal to the police officer or his or her delegate(s), the owner shall be in
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-14 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or molest the chief of police
or his or her delegates while engaged in the discharge of his or her duties
under this chapter or in the enforcement of any of the provisions under this
chapter.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 5-3-15 PENALTIES.
   A.   The owner or keeper of any dog or cat or other animal that has been
impounded shall pay an impoundment fee, at the rate of $50 per day, and all
veterinarian fees and costs and euthanasia and disposition of remains fees and
costs, as the case may be.
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in accordance with the following schedule:
      1.   Two hundred twenty-five dollars for the first offense;
      2.   Two hundred seventy-five dollars for the second offense;
      3.   Three hundred twenty-five dollars for the third offense; and
      4.   A sum of not less than $375, nor more than $750 for the fourth
offense and each offense thereafter.
   C.   A separate violation shall be deemed committed on each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
   D.   Any person issued a citation pursuant to this chapter shall pay the
village treasurer all such impoundment fees and costs and veterinarian fees and
costs and euthanasia and disposition of remains fees and costs, as the case may
be, and a fine for each violation of this chapter, in accordance with the fine
schedule set forth in subsections B. and C. above. If such person fails to pay
same within 14 days of the date of said citation, then the village may
prosecute such person through a complaint for ordinance violation filed with a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   E.   The parent of any minor claiming to be an owner or keeper of any dog
shall be deemed to be the owner of such dog and shall be charged for all
penalties, fees, costs and fines imposed by this section.
   F.   In addition, and not in lieu of the forgoing obligations, fines,
penalties, any person violating any provision of this chapter shall pay the
village a prosecutor’s fee of $150 for each such violation for which the
village attorney files a court action to prosecute such violation.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-9-2010; Ord. 776, passed 3-14-2011)
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
5-4-1   State Criminal Code Adopted
   
5-4-2   Aid In An Offense
   
5-4-3   Offenses Involving Public Peace And Safety
   
5-4-3-1   Disturbing Lawful Assemblies
   
5-4-3-2   Unlawful Assemblies
   
5-4-3-3   Storage Of Explosive Compounds
   
5-4-3-4   Throwing Missiles
   
5-4-4   Offenses Involving Property
   
5-4-4-1   Destruction Of Public Property
   
5-4-4-2   Weakening Streets And Property
   
5-4-4-3   Damage To Utilities
   
5-4-4-4   Damage To Street Signs
   
5-4-4-5   Posting Bills
   
5-4-4-6   Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
   
5-4-4-7   Criminal Housing Management
   
5-4-4-8   Safety Protections Required For Private Swimming Pools, Spas And Hot
Tubs
   
5-4-5   Nudity, Indecent Or Lewd Dress Or Behavior
   
5-4-6   Interference With, Abusing A Police Officer
   
5-4-7   Impersonating, Interfering With A Public Official
   
5-4-8   Disorderly Conduct
   
5-4-9   Fighting
   
5-4-10   Cannabis
§ 5-4-1 STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as now
enacted or hereafter amended, is hereby adopted by the village. The provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village;
provided, however, the penalties as provided by this code shall apply. (1987
Code, § 27-1-2) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 5-4-2 AID IN AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-8)
§ 5-4-3 OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY.
§ 5-4-3-1 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for worship or
any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive behavior or by any
disorderly conduct.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 5-4-3-2 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   A.   Whenever 12 or more persons, any of them armed with clubs or dangerous
weapons, or 30 or more persons, armed or unarmed, are unlawfully, riotously or
tumultuously assembled in the village, it shall be the duty of each of the
village police officers to go among the persons so assembled, or as near them
as safety will permit, and in the name of the state, command them immediately
to disperse; and if they do not obey, every person refusing to disperse shall
be deemed guilty of unlawful assembly.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-4)
   B.   When persons so unlawfully assembled neglect or refuse on command to
disperse, it shall be the duty of the police to forthwith suppress the assembly
and disperse the persons composing it in such a manner as may be most
expedient.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 5-4-3-3 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVE COMPOUNDS.
   No person shall have, keep, possess or store at or in any place within the
village, any nitroglycerine, dynamite or giant powder, or any form or
combination of any of them.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-12)
§ 5-4-3-4 THROWING MISSILES.
   No person in the village shall throw or cast any stone or any other missile
upon or at any building, tree or other public or private property, or at any
person in any street, avenue, alley or public place.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-13)
§ 5-4-4 OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY.
§ 5-4-4-1 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   A.   No person in the village shall deface, destroy or in any way injure any
public property, or any other apparatus of the village.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-14)
   B.   Whoever shall intentionally deface, obliterate, tear down or destroy,
in whole or in part, any ordinance, advertisement or notice posted by authority
of the village president and trustees or any member thereof shall be fined as
provided in § 1-4-1 for each offense; provided, however, this subsection will
not apply in any case after the time for which said notice, advertisement or
ordinance has, by its own terms or ordinance, to remain posted, shall be
expired.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 5-4-4-2 WEAKENING STREETS AND PROPERTY.
   No person shall undermine, in any manner, any street or any other ground or
real estate situated in the village or belonging to any private person.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-1)
§ 5-4-4-3 DAMAGE TO UTILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully, maliciously or negligently break, deface,
injure or destroy any telegraph or telephone pole, post or wire, or any
electric light post, pole or electric conductor, wire or lamp or any other
thing connected with the same or belonging thereto, or any water main, gas
main, pipe or hydrant or lamp or lamppost, or anything belonging to or
connected therewith or with any of them. (1987 Code, § 27-5-6)
§ 5-4-4-4 DAMAGE TO STREET SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, in any manner or form, to
deface, disfigure, damage or molest any of the street signs or parts thereof
located in the village.
(1987 Code, § 27-5-7)
§ 5-4-4-5 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print or mail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone, or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, or upon any private wall, door, or gate
without the consent, in writing, of the owner of the wall, door or gate;
provided, however, that this section shall not prevent posting by proper
village and county officials of election signs, polling place signs and other
signs or placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections, except
they may not be attached to a tree.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-9)
Cross-reference:
   Advertisements On Poles, see §
4-1-1 M.
   Unlawful Advertising, see §
7-1-10
§ 5-4-4-6 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   A.   Barbed Wire Fences.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct or maintain
anywhere within the village any fence composed in whole or in part of barbed
wire, or with any similar sharp material designed to cause injury to persons,
unless such fence is at least six feet in height, and all such barbs and sharp
materials are situated at least six feet from the ground level.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct or maintain
anywhere within the village any such fence contrary to the provisions of § 10-
1-10B.3.
   B.   Electric Fences. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
construct or maintain anywhere within the village any aboveground electrically
charged fence or wire; provided, however, any such electrically charged fence
or wire in existence upon the effective date hereof may continue to be
maintained until such electrically charged fence or wire is removed, destroyed
or torn down, and in such event, such electrically charged fence or wire may
not be thereafter replaced, erected, constructed or maintained.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-6)
§ 5-4-4-7 CRIMINAL HOUSING MANAGEMENT.
   A person commits the offense of criminal housing management when, having
personal management or control of residential real estate, whether as a legal
or equitable owner of residential real estate or as a managing agent or
otherwise, he or she knowingly permits, by his or her gross carelessness or
neglect, the physical condition of facilities of the residential real estate to
become or remain so deteriorated that the health or safety of any inhabitant is
endangered.
(1987 Code, § 27-4-4)
§ 5-4-4-8 SAFETY PROTECTIONS REQUIRED FOR PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT
TUBS.
   A.   Notwithstanding any village code provisions to the contrary, it shall
be unlawful, on and from July 11, 2020, for an owner or tenant of any private
swimming pool, spa or hot tub to maintain any private swimming pool, spa or hot
tub unless such private swimming pool, spa or hot tub is at all times
maintained or used in compliance with each of the following applicable safety
protective requirements as set forth in subsection B. below.
   B.   Safety Protective Requirements.
      1.   The private swimming pool, spa or hot tub shall be surrounded by a
safety protective barrier and at least one access gate restricting entry into a
swimming pool, spa or hot tub that complies with the 2018 International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code §§ 305.2 through 305.7 which is included within the
2024 International Building Code (which codes have been previously adopted by
the village and are incorporated herein by reference) unless:
         a.   Such spa or hot tub is equipped with a functioning lockable
safety cover that complies with ASTM F1346; or
         b.   Such swimming pool is equipped with a functioning powered safety
cover that complies with ASTM F1346.
      2.   At all times that a private swimming pool, spa or hot tub is not in
use, each aforesaid access gate shall be closed and locked.
      3.   At all times that a private spa or hot tub is not in use the
aforesaid functioning lockable safety cover must be on such spa or hot tub and
securely locked.
      4.   At all times that a private swimming pool is not in use, the
aforesaid functioning powered safety cover shall be powered shut and closed
covering the entire private swimming pool.
      5.   For purposes of this section, a PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL, SPA OR HOT
TUB shall be considered “not in use,” when the owner or tenant thereof, or a
responsible adult authorized by such owner or tenant, is not actually in such
swimming pool, spa or hot tub or is not physically outdoors and present within
20 feet of an edge of such private swimming pool, spa or hot tub.
   C.   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
subject to and fined as provided in § 1-4-1 of the village code for each
offense. Each day a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 873, passed 6-29-2020)
§ 5-4-5 NUDITY, INDECENT OR LEWD DRESS OR BEHAVIOR.
   No person in the village shall appear in any public place in a state of
nudity, or in an indecent or lewd dress, or shall make any indecent exposure of
his or her person, or be guilty of any indecent or lewd act or behavior.
(1987 Code, § 27-3-1)
§ 5-4-6 INTERFERENCE WITH, ABUSING A POLICE OFFICER.
   No person shall, by violent, tumultuous or obstreperous conduct or carriage,
disturb any police officer in the discharge of his or her duties; and no person
shall use unseemly, profane, obscene or offensive language in the presence of a
police officer; nor shall any person assault, strike or fight with any police
officer in the discharge of his or her duties or permit such conduct in or upon
any house or premises in the village owned or possessed by him or her or under
his or her management and control.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-1)
§ 5-4-7 IMPERSONATING, INTERFERING WITH A PUBLIC OFFICIAL.
   No person in the village shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer of the village or shall, without being duly authorized by the village,
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of any
village officer; or hinder, obstruct, resist or otherwise interfere with any
village officer in the discharge of the duties of his or her office; or attempt
to prevent any such officer from arresting any person, either by force or by
giving notice to such person; or attempt to rescue from such officer any person
in his or her custody; or impersonate any of the members of the police force of
the village; or maliciously or with the intention of deceiving any person, wear
the uniform of or a uniform similar to that worn by the members of the police
department, or use any of the signs, signals or devices adopted and used by the
police department.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-2)
§ 5-4-8 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit disorderly conduct, as
provided for in 720 ILCS 5/26-1.
   B.   No person shall yell, shout, hoot, whistle or sing on any village
street, highway, roadway, easement, alley, sidewalk, boulevard or right-of-way,
particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or
place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any
office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any persons
in the vicinity.
   C.   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall, for each
offense, be punished as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Ord. 823, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 5-4-9 FIGHTING.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start a fight or to
fight or to commit any assault or battery while in or within or at or on or
about:
      1.   Any village street, highway, roadway, easement, alley, sidewalk,
boulevard or right-of-way;
      2.   Any village property; or
      3.   Any public place within the village.
   B.   For purposes hereof, PUBLIC PLACE shall mean and include any property
or premises of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever within the village that is
available to or frequented by members of the general public either in person or
while wholly or partly in or within or at or on or about any vehicle or
property of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever.
   C.   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall, for each
offense, be punished as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Ord. 823, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 5-4-10 CANNABIS.
   A.   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CANNABIS. Includes marihuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake,
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
(720 ILCS 550/3)
      CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. Equipment, products or materials intended to be
used for planting, propagating, cultivation, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, ingesting or otherwise
introducing cannabis into the human body.
      ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. Within the sight line with normal visual range of a
person, unassisted by visual aids, from a public street or sidewalk adjacent to
real property, or from within an adjacent property.
      RESIDENT. A person who has been domiciled in the state for a period of 30
days before cultivation.
   B.   Restrictions/Forfeiture.
      1.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to purchase,
possess, use, process, transport, grow or consume cannabis or an item of
cannabis paraphernalia except where authorized by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes, including, but not limited to, the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS
550/1 et seq.), the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/10-5 et
seq.), the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et
seq.) or the Community College Cannabis Vocational Pilot Program (410 ILCS 705/
25-1 et seq.).
      2.   It is unlawful for any person over the age of 21 years to purchase,
possess, use, process, transport, grow, produce or consume cannabis or an item
of cannabis paraphernalia in violation of any provision of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes, including, but not limited to, the Cannabis Control Act (720
ILCS 550/1 et seq.), the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/10-5 et
seq.), the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et
seq.), or the Community College Cannabis Vocational Pilot Program (410 ILCS
705/25-1 et seq.).
      3.   It is unlawful to cultivate cannabis for personal use unless such
cultivation is done by a state resident 21 years of age or older who is a
registered qualifying patient under the compassionate use ofMedical Cannabis
Program Act and such cannabis cultivation does not violate any of the following
restrictions, limitations and conditions.
         a.   The cultivation of cannabis plants per household shall not exceed
five plants that are more than five inches tall, without a cultivation center
or craft grower license.
         b.   Such cannabis cultivation shall take place in an enclosed, locked
space.
         c.   Only such state-registered qualifying patients may purchase
cannabis seeds from a dispensary for the purpose of home cultivation. It is
unlawful for any such state-registered qualifying patient to give or sell
cannabis seeds to any other person.
         d.   Such cannabis plants shall not be stored or placed in a location
where they are subject to ordinary public view. Such registered qualifying
patient who cultivates cannabis shall take reasonable precautions to ensure the
cannabis plants are secure from unauthorized access, including unauthorized
access by any person or persons under 21 years of age.
         e.   Such cannabis cultivation may occur only on residential property
lawfully in possession of the cultivator or with the consent of the person in
lawful possession of the property. An owner or lessor of residential property
may prohibit the cultivation of cannabis by a lessee.
         f.   A dwelling, residence, apartment, condominium unit, enclosed,
locked space or piece of property not divided into multiple dwelling units
shall not contain more than five cannabis plants at any one time.
         g.   Cannabis plants may only be tendered by such registered
qualifying patients who reside at the residence, or their authorized agent
attending to the residence for brief periods, such as when such registered
qualifying patient is temporarily away from the residence.
         h.   It is unlawful for any person to cultivate more than the
allowable number of cannabis plants, or to sell or give away cannabis plants,
cannabis, cannabis seeds or cannabis-infused products.
      4.   Cannabis and/or cannabis plants and/or cannabis paraphernalia and/or
cannabis seeds that is/are seized by police officers pursuant to an issuance of
an ordinance citation for a violation of this section shall be forfeited to the
village upon conviction or upon payment of a fine in settlement of any said
violation without further order of the court.
   C.   Penalties. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined, upon conviction thereof, the sum of $250 per violation; and each day
upon which a violation occurs or continues shall be deemed to be a separate
offense. A person under 21 years of age with cannabis in his or her possession
is guilty of a civil law violation as outlined in paragraph (a) of the Cannabis
Control Act.
(Ord. 868, passed 12-9-2019)
CHAPTER 5: WEAPONS
Section
   
5-5-1   Right To Own And Possess Firearms And Ammunition
   
5-5-2   Discharge Of Firearm Or Bow And Arrow
§ 5-5-1 RIGHT TO OWN AND POSSESS FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION.
   Except as otherwise prohibited by law, every adult person, as defined by
state statute, residing within the limits of the village shall possess the
absolute right to own, possess and maintain a firearm, together with necessary
ammunition for the use of such firearm.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-10)
§ 5-5-2 DISCHARGE OF FIREARM OR BOW AND ARROW.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, bow and arrow or air gun in
the village, or so that the bullet, arrow, missile or projectile therefrom
enters the village, without written permission from the mayor; provided, that
this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from
discharging a firearm in the performance of his or her duty; nor any citizen
from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his or her personal
property.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-11)
CHAPTER 6: MINORS
Section
   
5-6-1   Sales Or Gifts To Or Possession Of Tobacco By Minors
   
5-6-2   Curfew
   
5-6-3   Trick Or Treating On Designated Day
§ 5-6-1 SALES OR GIFTS TO OR POSSESSION OF TOBACCO BY MINORS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell, buy for, furnish, or to give any
cigarette, cigar or tobacco in any form or any electronic cigarette to any
person under 18 years of age; provided, however, a parent or judicially
established legal guardian of such person under 18 years of age may give such
minor any such cigarette, cigar or tobacco, provided same is solely possessed,
smoked, chewed or consumed in the privacy of the residential home of such
parent or guardian.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to possess,
or buy, or smoke, or chew or consume any cigarette, cigar or tobacco in any
form or any electronic cigarette except in the privacy of the residential home
of such person’s parent or judicially established legal guardian.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall, for
each offense, be fined and punished as provided in §
1-4-1 for each separate offense. Each day upon which a violation occurs or
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 813, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 5-6-2 CURFEW.
   A.   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         a.   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
         b.   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
         c.   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         a.   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
         b.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
      MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         a.   A natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent of another
person; or
         b.   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      REMAIN. To:
         a.   Linger or stay; or
         b.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Offenses.
      1.   A minor between 14 years of age and 17 years of age commits an
offense if he or she remains in a public place or on the premises of any
establishment during curfew hours or during Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
or Thursday between 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. the following day.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits an offense if he or she knowingly permits the minor
to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment during
curfew hours.
      3.   A minor less than 14 years of age commits an offense if he or she
remains in a public place or on the premises of any establishment on any day
between 9:30 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. the following day.
   C.   Defenses. It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B. above that
the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act, being 750 IlCS 30/1 et seq.
   D.   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in subsection C. above is present.
   E.   Penalties. A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than
$250 nor more than $500; except, that neither a person who has been made a ward
of the court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, being 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et
seq., nor that person’s legal guardian, shall be subject to any fine. In
addition to or instead of the fine imposed by this subsection, the court may
order a parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of
subsection B. above to perform community service as determined by the court;
except, that the legal guardian of a person who has been made a ward of the
court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 may not be ordered to perform
community service. The dates and times established for the performance of
community service by the parent, legal guardian or other person convicted of a
violation of subsection B. above, shall not conflict with the dates and times
that the person is employed in his or her regular occupation.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-17) (Amd. 2008 Code) (Ord. 773, passed 8-9-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq. and 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
§ 5-6-3 TRICK OR TREATING ON DESIGNATED DAY.
   It shall be illegal for any person to engage in the Halloween practice,
commonly called “trick or treat,” by calling at the homes or dwelling places
within the village, masked or unmasked, except upon the designated day
established by the village board.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-18)
CHAPTER 7: FIREWORKS
Section
   
5-7-1   Definition
   
5-7-2   Sales And Use Prohibited Generally
   
5-7-3   Displays; Permit Requirements
   
5-7-4   Possession; Transporting
§ 5-7-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORK. Any explosive composition, or any substance or combination of
substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion,
deflagration or detonation and shall include blank cartridges and toy cannons
in which explosives are used; the type of balloons which require fire
underneath to propel the same; firecrackers, torpedoes, sky rockets, Roman
candles, fireworks containing any explosive compound, or any bombs or other
fireworks of like construction and any tablets or other devices containing
explosive substances, or containing combustible substances producing visual
effects; provided, however, that the term FIREWORKS shall not include snake or
glow worm pellets, smoke devices, trick noisemakers known as “party poppers,”
“booby traps,” “snappers,” “trick matches,” “cigarette loads,” and “auto
burglar alarms,” sparklers, toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices
in which paper or plastic caps containing 0.25 grain or less of explosive
compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come
in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol, paper
or plastic caps which contain less than 0.25 grain of explosive mixture, the
sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-16)
§ 5-7-2 SALES AND USE PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
copartnership or corporation to offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail
or use or explode any fireworks within the village limits.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-16)
§ 5-7-3 DISPLAYS; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Permit Required; Exemptions. The village board may authorize the
village clerk to grant permits for the supervised public display of fireworks.
Permits may be granted hereunder to any group of three or more adult
individuals applying therefor. No permit shall be required for supervised
public displays by state or county fair associations or by the Village Lion’s
Club.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-16) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Application For Permit. Application for permit shall be made in writing
at least 15 days in advance of the date of the display, and action shall be
taken on such application at the next regular meeting of the village board.
Forms for such application and permit may be obtained from the village clerk.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-16)
   C.   Bond Required. The village board shall require a bond from the
permittee in a sum not less than $1,000, conditioned on compliance with the
provisions of the ordinances of the village and the regulations of the state
fire marshal; except, that the village shall not be required to file such bond.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-16) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Inspection; Issuance Of Permit. The permit shall be issued after
inspection of the display site by the police chief or designee to determine
that such display shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person or
persons.
   E.   Distribution Of Copies Of Permit. One copy of such permit shall be on
file with the village clerk and one copy forwarded to the office of the state
fire marshal.
   F.   Nontransferability Of Permit. No permit granted hereunder shall be
transferable.
   G.   Supervision; Safe Conditions. Every such display shall be handled by a
competent individual designated by the police chief and shall be of such
character and so located, discharged or fired as not to be hazardous to
property or endanger any person or persons.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-16)
§ 5-7-4 POSSESSION; TRANSPORTING.
   Possession by any party holding a certificate of registration under the
state fireworks regulation act, filed July 20, 1935, or by any employee or
agent of such party or by any person transporting fireworks for such party
shall not be a violation, provided such possession is within the scope of
business of the Illinois Fireworks Regulation Act, being 425 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
(1987 Code, § 27-2-16)
TITLE 6: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
   Chapter
      
1.    GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
      
2.    DRIVING RULES
      
3.    PARKING REGULATIONS
      
4.    TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
5.    VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
      
6.    SNOWMOBILES
      
7.    GOLF CARTS AND RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
Section
   
6-1-1   Definitions
   
6-1-2   Application To Animals And Bicycles
   
6-1-3   Exemptions From Provisions
   
6-1-4   Obedience To Police; Unlawful Direction Of Traffic
   
6-1-5   Traffic At Scene Of Fire
   
6-1-6   Traffic Control Devices
   
6-1-7   Toy Vehicles
§ 6-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., entitled “Title
and Definitions,” as passed, approved and amended by the state general
assembly, is hereby adopted by the village. The provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the village.
(1987 Code, § 24-1-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 6-1-2 APPLICATION TO ANIMALS AND BICYCLES.
   Any person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to a person riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(1987 Code, § 24-2-8)
§ 6-1-3 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   A.   Authorized Emergency Vehicles.
      1.   The provisions of this title regulating the movement or parking of
vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call, but such driver, upon approaching a red or
stop signal or any stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety but may
proceed cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal. At other times,
drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop in obedience to a stop sign
or signal.
      2.   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any
special privileges under this title except when such vehicle is operated in
response to an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or
suspected violator of the law.
   B.   Public Works Vehicles. The provisions of this title regulating the
movement and parking of vehicles shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while
actively engaged in installing, repairing or otherwise improving streets or
street pavement.
(1987 Code, § 24-2-11)
§ 6-1-4 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE; UNLAWFUL DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   A.   Members of the police department and special police assigned to traffic
duty are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the
provision of this title or in emergencies, as public safety or convenience may
require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer. Any person
convicted of violating this subsection A. is guilty of a petty offense and
shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $250.
(1987 Code, § 24-2-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Except in cases of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(1987 Code, § 24-2-1)
§ 6-1-5 TRAFFIC AT SCENE OF FIRE.
   The fire district officer in command or any firefighter designated by him or
her may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire, or where the fire district has responded to
any emergency call, for so long as the fire district equipment is on the scene
in the absence of or in assisting the police department.
(1987 Code, § 24-2-2)
§ 6-1-6 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   A.   Obedience Required. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle
to disobey the instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by
authority of the corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the
state, excepting on direction of a police officer.
(1987 Code, § 24-2-4)
   B.   Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Devices. No person shall place, maintain
or display upon or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal,
marking, light, reflector or device which purports to be or is an imitation of
or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic.
   C.   Interference With Traffic Control Devices.
      1.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of
traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic control device or any railroad sign
or signal. No tree, bush or foliage of any kind shall be so placed, maintained,
allowed to remain or be displayed upon private property in such a manner as to
hide from view or interfere with the movement of traffic or the effectiveness
of any traffic control device, sign or signal.
(1987 Code, §§ 24-2-5 and 24-2-7)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or
interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(1987 Code, § 24-2-6)
§ 6-1-7 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, skateboard, sled
or other toy vehicle to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk.
(1987 Code, § 24-2-9)
CHAPTER 2: DRIVING RULES
Section
   
6-2-1   One-Way Streets; Stop And Yield Intersections
   
6-2-2   Speed Restrictions
   
6-2-3   Lane Usage
   
6-2-4   Reckless, Careless, Negligent Driving
§ 6-2-1 ONE-WAY STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   A.   One-Way Streets And Alleys. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle
on any streets or alleys designated as one-way streets or alleys in any
direction other than that so designated.
(1987 Code, § 24-3-1)
   B.   Stop Streets. The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop
sign at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances
thereto and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not so obligated
to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event, the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with.
(1987 Code, § 24-3-2)
   C.   Yield Right-Of-Way Streets. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield
sign shall, in obedience to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the
existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway. After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the
right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time such
driver is moving across or within the intersection. (1987 Code, § 24-3-3)
   D.   Signs Posted. Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all stop and
yield right-of-way streets; all one-way streets and alleys; and all stop
intersections.
(1987 Code, § 24-3-4)
Cross-reference:
   One-Way Streets, Stop Intersections and Yield Intersections, see §§
6-4-1 ,
6-4-2  and
6-4-3
§ 6-2-2 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Speed Limits Generally. The speed limits on various streets shall be
approved by the village board of trustees from time to time, but shall not
exceed 20 mph on any street within the village unless otherwise posted;
provided, however, the speed limit on Wildcat Way shall be 30 mph from its
intersection with Campbell Street to its intersection with North Street and
shall be 45 mph from its intersection with North Street to its intersection
with IL. Route 29, and from its intersection with Campbell Street thence south
to IL. Route 29.
   B.   School Zones. No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in
excess of 20 mph while passing through a school zone or while traveling upon
any public thoroughfare on or across which children pass going to and from
school during school days when school children are present. This subsection
shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are posted upon streets and
maintained by the village or state wherein the school zone is located.
(1987 Code, § 24-4-2)
   C.   Failure To Reduce Speed.
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven upon the streets and alleys of the village
at a speed which is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic conditions and
the use of the street and alley. The fact that the vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver of the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway, or when special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
      2.   Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with
any property or with any person or vehicle on or entering the highway in
compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
(1987 Code, § 24-4-2) (Amd. 2008 Code) (Ord. 845, passed 11-13-2017)
Cross-reference:
   School Zone Speed Limits, see §
6-4-5 A.
§ 6-2-3 LANE USAGE.
   Whenever any roadway within the village has been divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for traffic, a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as
practicable entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from such lane
until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made with
safety.
(1987 Code, § 24-4-2)
§ 6-2-4 RECKLESS, CARELESS, NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the village in a careless,
reckless, negligent or wanton manner or carelessly so as to endanger life or
property or to knowingly drive a vehicle and use an incline in a roadway, such
as a railroad grade crossing, bridge, approach or hill, to cause the vehicle to
become airborne.
(1987 Code, § 24-5-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
6-3-1   Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
   
6-3-2   Towing Illegally Parked Vehicles
   
6-3-3   Prima Facie Proof
   
6-3-4   Penalties
§ 6-3-1 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         b.   On a sidewalk;
         c.   Within an intersection;
         d.   On a crosswalk;
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         h.   On any railroad tracks;
         i.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         j.   On any controlled access highway;
         k.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers; and
         l.   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway;
         b.   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         c.   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         d.   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         e.   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance (when properly signposted); and
         f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         a.   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; and
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(1987 Code, § 24-6-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
Cross-reference:
   No Parking Zones, see §
6-4-4
§ 6-3-2 TOWING ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   The police department and all members thereof are hereby authorized to
remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by commercial towing
service, any car, boat, trailer or other vehicle illegally parked in any place
where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks the
use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any
emergency vehicle. Vehicles towed away shall be stored on any village property
or in a private garage, service station or parking lot and shall be restored to
the owner or operator thereof after payment of the expense incurred by the
village in removing and storing such vehicle(s).
(1987 Code, § 24-6-2)
§ 6-3-3 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked or operated is registered
in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person
was in control of the vehicle at the time of such violation.
(1987 Code, § 24-6-4)
§ 6-3-4 PENALTIES.
   A.   Any person accused of a violation of any ordinance prohibiting parking
a vehicle in a designated area, or restricting the length of time a vehicle may
be there parked, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for
such illegal parking by paying the village $75 for each such offense. Such
payment may be made at the village, and a receipt shall be issued for all
monies so received, and such monies shall be promptly turned over to the
treasurer to be credited to the general fund. The members of the police
department are hereby authorized to refrain from instituting a prosecution for
the alleged offense involved for at least five days.
   B.   If such $75 fee is not paid within five days of the date of the parking
ticket, then any person who violates any section of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in accordance with
title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 24-6-3)
CHAPTER 4: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
6-4-1   One-Way Streets
   
6-4-2   Stop Intersections
   
6-4-3   Yield Intersections
   
6-4-4   No Parking Zone
   
6-4-5   School Zones
   
6-4-6   Truck Routes
§ 6-4-1 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
6-2-1A, the following streets are designated as one-way streets and/or traffic:
 
Street            Side  Location                     Direction Of Traffic
Washington Avenue North Eaton Street to Grant Street Westerly
                  South Grant Street to Eaton Street Easterly
 
(1987 Code, Ch. 24 Schedule A)
§ 6-4-2 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   A.   Generally.
Through Street Stop Street Direction Of Traffic
Through Street      Stop Street        Direction Of Traffic
                    Franklin Street    Northbound
Campbell Street     Lincoln Avenue     Both
                    Masonic Street     Both
Cedar Street        Lincoln Avenue     Both
                    Douglas Avenue     Both
                    Lincoln Avenue     Both
Cook Street         Pleasant Street    Both
                    Vine Street        Northwestbound
                    Washington Avenue  Both
                    Water Street       Westbound
Douglas Avenue      Ricks Street       Both
East Lincoln Street North Cedar Street Both
                    Troxell Street     Eastbound
East Masonic Street North Street       Both
                    Lincoln Avenue     Westbound
Eaton Street        Martin Avenue      Both
                    Masonic Street     Both
                    Washington Street  Both
Foggitt Street      Lincoln Street     Both
                    Vine Street        Both
                    Campbell Street    Both
                    Cedar Street       Southbound
                    Cook Street        Southbound
                    Curtis Street      Northbound
Franklin Street     Eaton Street       Northbound
                    Foggitt Street     Southbound
                    Grant Street       Southbound
                    Sheridan Street    Northbound
                    Troxell Street     Southbound
                    Wilkinson Street   Southbound
Grant Street        Martin Avenue      Both
                    Washington Avenue  Westbound
Lincoln Street      Wilkinson Street   Southbound
                    Cook Street        Both
                    Elm Street         Both
Masonic Street      Foggitt Street     Northbound
                    Grant Street       Northbound
                    Halford Street     Southbound
                    Cook Street        Northbound
                    Elm Street         Northbound
North Street        Halford Street     Northbound
                    Masonic Street     Both
                    Oakley Street      Northbound
Oakley Street       Vine Street        Both
Vine Street         Cook Street        Northbound
                    Oakley Street      Both
Washington Avenue   Foggitt Street     Northbound
                    Grant Street       Southbound
                    Campbell Street    Both
                    Cook Street        Both
                    Douglas Avenue     Both
                    Eaton Street       Southbound
                    Elm Street         Southbound
                    Franklin Street    Both
Wildcat Way         Grant Street       Both
                    Martin Avenue      Both
                    Masonic Street     Both
                    North Street       Westbound
                    Oakley Street      Southbound
                    Vine Street        Both
                    Washington Avenue  Both
 
(1987 Code, Ch. 24 Schedule B) (Amd. 2008 Code) (Amd. per correspondence dated
9-11-2008)
   B.   Three-Way Stop Intersections. In accordance with the provisions of § 6-
2-1B, the following are hereby designated as three-way stop intersections:
 
Oakley Street, both directions, at Vine Street, eastbound traffic
 
(1987 Code, Ch. 24 Schedule B-2)
   C.   Four-Way Stop Intersections. In accordance with the provisions of § 6-
2-1B, the following are hereby designated as four-way stop intersections.
Campbell Street and Douglas Avenue
Campbell Street and Main Street
Campbell Street and Masonic Street
Campbell Street and Washington Street
Cedar Street and Lincoln Street
Cook Street and Douglas Avenue
Curtis Street and Sherman Street
Eaton Street and Douglas Avenue
Eaton Street and Sherman Street
North Street and Masonic Street
Oakley Street and Vine Street
 
(1987 Code, Ch. 24 Schedule B-1) (Amd. 2008 Code) (Amd. per correspondence
dated 9-11-2008)
(Ord. 709, passed 6-13-2005; Ord. 727, passed 10-9-2006; Ord. 799, passed 4-8-
2013; Ord. 818, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 845, passed 11-13-2017; Ord. 862, passed
5-13-2019; Ord. 906, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 6-4-3 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
6-2-1C, the following streets are hereby designated as yield right-of-way
streets.
 
Through Street    Yield Street Direction Of Traffic
Douglas Avenue    Grant Street Both
Elm Street        Vine Street  Both
Washington Street Cedar Street Both
                 Ricks Street Both
 
(1987 Code, Ch. 24 Schedule C) (Amd. 2008 Code) (Ord. 751, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 6-4-4 NO PARKING ZONE.
   Except in compliance with the directions of a police officer, no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle at the following locations.
Street Side Location
Street         Side  Location
               Both  Cook Street to Oakley Street
Douglas Avenue Both  Grant Street east for 140 feet
               South Oakley Street to Wilkinson Street
               Both  Wilkinson Street to village’s west corporate limits
               Both  Washington Avenue (ROW) south 20 feet
Eaton Street   East  Washington Avenue (ROW) north 20 feet
                    Commencing 180 feet north of the intersection of Eaton
               West  Street and Martin Street to the intersection of said Eaton
                     Street and Martin Street
                     The center of the alleyway located between Douglas Avenue
Grant Street   East  and Washington Avenue 90 feet south from the point of
                     intersection with Grant Street
Wildcat Way    Both  Corporate limits
 
(1987 Code, § 24-6-1.1 and Ch. 24 Schedule F) (Ord. 755, passed 3-16-2009; Ord.
845, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 6-4-5 SCHOOL ZONES.
   A.   Speed Limits. In accordance with the provisions of §
6-2-2 , the following streets shall have the following speed zones unless
otherwise posted.
 
Street          Speed Limit Location
Campbell Street 20 mph      Masonic Street to Washington Avenue
Eaton Street    20 mph      Masonic Street to Washington Avenue
Masonic Street  20 mph      Eaton Street to Campbell Street
Wildcat Way     20 mph      Eaton Street to Douglas Avenue
 
(1987 Code, Ch. 24 Schedule D) (Amd. 2008 Code) (Amd. per correspondence dated
9-11-2008)
   B.   Streets Closed. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate
any motor vehicle on the following streets in the village between the hours of
8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on school days when school is in session. On said days
and times, said portion of the following streets shall be closed to motor
vehicle traffic. Such restricted area shall be marked with posted signs or
barricades as the village corporate authorities may determine from time to
time:
 
Street        Location
Martin Street Between its intersection with Campbell Street and with Eaton
              Street
 
(1987 Code, § 24-9-10) (Ord. 845, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 6-4-6 TRUCK ROUTES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
6-5-3, the following streets shall be designated as truck routes.
 
Street   Location
Campbell From Campbell Street (commencing at the northern corporate limits of
Street   the village) to Campbell Street’s intersection with Douglas Street,
and      then continuing west from said intersection along Douglas Street to
Douglas  its intersection with Wildcat Way.
Street
Franklin On or along Franklin Street
Street
Wildcat  On or along Wildcat Way
Way
 
(1987 Code, § 24-9-1, Ch. 24 Schedule T) (Amd. 2008 Code) (Amd. per
correspondence dated 9-11-2008) (Ord. 845, passed 11-13-2017)
CHAPTER 5: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
Section
   
6-5-1   Noisy Vehicles
   
6-5-2   Lights On Vehicles Of Volunteer Firefighters
   
6-5-3   Weight Restrictions
   
6-5-4   Bicycle Equipment
§ 6-5-1 NOISY VEHICLES.
   A.   Stopped Vehicle.
      1.   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle is
stopped, unreasonably accelerate the engine thereof with the gears of the
vehicle in neutral, thereby causing an unreasonable loud or excessive noise.
(1987 Code, § 24-5-1)
      2.   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle is
stopped, accelerate the engine with the gears of such vehicle in neutral, and
while so accelerating the engine, shift the gears of the vehicle into a forward
or reverse movement, thereby causing an unreasonably loud noise with the rear
wheels of the vehicle.
(1987 Code, § 24-5-2)
      3.   No operator of a motor vehicle shall accelerate the engine thereof
when shifting the gears of such vehicle in such a manner as to cause the rear
wheels of such vehicle to spin violently thereby causing an unreasonably loud
or excessive noise.
(1987 Code, § 24-5-3)
   B.   Moving Vehicles. No operator of motor vehicle shall, when operating the
vehicle, accelerate the vehicle or rapidly stop the vehicle causing an
unreasonably loud noise.
(1987 Code, § 24-5-5)
   C.   Sound Amplification System. No driver of any motor vehicle within the
village shall operate or permit the operation of any sound amplification system
which can be heard outside the vehicle from 75 or more feet when the vehicle is
being operated upon a public street, roadway, alleyway or highway within the
village, unless such system is being operated to request assistance or warn of
a hazardous situation. This subsection C. does not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
(1987 Code, § 24-5-6)
§ 6-5-2 LIGHTS ON VEHICLES OF VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS.
   Any motor vehicle owned or usually operated by a volunteer firefighter may
be equipped with not to exceed two lamps which shall emit a blue light without
glare. One such lamp may be mounted on the rear of any such vehicle. A flashing
blue light may be used only when such firefighter is responding to a fire call.
(1987 Code, § 24-2-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 6-5-3 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Streets, Highways and Roads.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to operate any truck, motor vehicle, commercial
vehicle or any vehicle on any public street, highway or other public road in
the village, except on the truck routes described in §
6-4-6, when the gross weight on the surface of the street, highway or roadway
exceeds 16,000 pounds, except for the sole business purpose of making delivery
or picking up a load, in which case, such vehicle may be driven on any street
for not more than the minimum distance necessary for such purpose.
      2.   The village corporate authorities shall cause signs to be
appropriately placed.
   B.   Alleys. During the period of time from February 15 through April 30 of
each year, it shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle or any vehicle on
any public alley in the village when the gross weight on the surface of the
public alley exceeds 8,000 pounds; provided, however, garbage hauling trucks,
with the prior consent of the village general superintendent, may use said
alleys during said period of time; but provided, further, however, the owner of
said garbage truck and/or garbage business shall pay all material costs
incurred by the village to repair any and all damage done to any alley by use
of said garbage hauling trucks.
(1987 Code, § 24-9-2) (Ord. 869, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 6-5-4 BICYCLE EQUIPMENT.
   A.   Lights And Reflectors.
      1.   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the state department of transportation which shall be visible from
all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(1987 Code, § 24-2-10) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle
that is not equipped with a reflex reflector on each pedal or conforming to
specifications prescribed by the state, visible from the front and rear of the
bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
      3.   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle. The requirements of this
subsection A.3. may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least
three-sixteenths inch wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as
clearly as possible the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims
of such bicycle and which reflective materials may be of the same color on both
the front and rear tires or rims. Such reflectors shall conform to
specifications prescribed by the state.
      4.   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front facing reflector.
   B.   Brake. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will
adequately control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   C.   Sirens Prohibited. A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any
person use any siren upon a bicycle.
(1987 Code, § 24-2-10)
CHAPTER 6: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
6-6-1   Definitions
   
6-6-2   Use Restricted
   
6-6-3   Obedience To Traffic Laws And Police
   
6-6-4   Operation On Certain Streets Only
   
6-6-5   Conditions Of Operation
§ 6-6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of any highway, road,
street, avenue, alley or public driveway located within the corporate limits of
the village.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control the
operation of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is
underway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain, steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts or cleats.
(1987 Code, § 24-8-1)
§ 6-6-2 USE RESTRICTED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no snowmobile shall be driven
or operated by any person on any highway within the corporate limits of the
village.
(1987 Code, § 24-8-2)
§ 6-6-3 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LAWS AND POLICE.
   Each driver or operator of any snowmobile shall strictly observe all traffic
signs and signals and all other traffic rules and regulations applicable to
motor vehicles operating within the village, and shall obey the orders and
directions of any village police officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic.
(1987 Code, § 24-8-5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 6-6-4 OPERATION ON CERTAIN STREETS ONLY.
   Subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth in §
6-6-5, snowmobiles may be driven or operated upon Washington Street located
within the corporate limits of the village and upon any other highway within
said corporate limits which is the most direct accessible route for such driver
and operator to travel to and from said Washington Street to and from outside
of said corporate limits; provided, however, snowmobiles may be driven anywhere
within the village in the event of any emergency where life, limb or property
is endangered.
(1987 Code, § 24-8-3)
§ 6-6-5 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful to drive or operate any snowmobile upon the highways
under the following circumstances:
   A.   Registration Required. Without having the snowmobile registered as
required and pursuant to the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act, amendments
thereto, or any rules and regulations issued thereunder;
   B.   Driver’s License. Without having a valid motor vehicle driver’s
license;
   C.   Hours. Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   D.   Damage To Pavement. When there is insufficient or inadequate snow or
ice upon such highways for the operation of any snowmobile without doing damage
or destruction to such highways;
   E.   Equipment.
      1.   Without having the snowmobile properly equipped with the equipment
required by and pursuant to the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act,
amendments thereto, or any rules and regulations issued thereunder; or
      2.   At any time without at least one lighted headlamp and one lighted
taillamp on the snowmobile, both said lamps exhibiting the required minimum
candlepower as required under the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act,
amendments thereto, or any rules and regulations issued thereunder.
   F.   Speed. At a rate of speed too fast for conditions, and in any event, at
a speed exceeding 20 mph, and the fact that the speed of the snowmobile does
not exceed said maximum 20 mph speed limit does not relieve the driver or
operator from the duty to decrease speed as may be necessary to avoid colliding
with any person or vehicle or object within legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care;
   G.   Pulling Other Items. While any snow or ice sled of any kind or other
apparatus or equipment is attached to and being pulled, pushed or carried by
any snowmobile;
   H.   Reckless Operation. In a careless, reckless or negligent manner;
   I.   Under Influence Of Alcohol Or Drugs. While under the influence of
intoxicating beverages or narcotic or dangerous drugs;
   J.   Weapons Possession. While carrying or having any firearm or weapon in
his or her possession; or
   K.   Noisy Conditions. In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or
unusual noise so as to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other
persons.
(1987 Code, § 24-8-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 40/1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 7: GOLF CARTS AND RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
Section
   
6-7-1   Definitions
   
6-7-2   Use Restricted
   
6-7-3   Signs
   
6-7-4   Operation Of Golf Carts And Recreational Off-Highway Vehicles Permitted
   
6-7-5   Governmental Immunity
   
6-7-6   Penalty
§ 6-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device designed
to travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer’s dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more
non-highway tires, designed with a nonstraddle seat and a steering wheel for
steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers.
   ROADWAY. A street, road, highway or alleyway located within the corporate
limits of the village and under the jurisdiction of the village.
   STATE VEHICLE CODE. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., and all amendments thereto.
   VILLAGE. The village of Edinburg, Illinois, a municipal corporation.
(Ord. 855, passed 7-9-2018)
§ 6-7-2 USE RESTRICTED.
   A.   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, it is
unlawful for any person to drive or operate a golf cart or recreational off-
highway vehicle upon any roadway in the village.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any all-terrain
vehicle (as defined by the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.) or
any off-highway motorcycle (as defined by the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS
5/1-100 et seq.).
(Ord. 855, passed 7-9-2018)
§ 6-7-3 SIGNS.
   The village’s general superintendent shall cause appropriate signs to be
posted on those village roadways where golf carts and recreational off-highway
vehicles are prohibited as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 855, passed 7-9-2018)
§ 6-7-4 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
PERMITTED.
   The operation of golf carts and recreational off-highway vehicles within the
village is permitted subject to the following rules and regulations.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle on any village roadway where the posted speed
limit is more than 35 mph; provided, however, a golf cart or recreational off-
highway vehicle may cross at an intersection a village roadway where the
village roadway has a posted speed limit of more than 35 mph.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a golf cart or a
recreational off-highway vehicle on any village roadway unless he or she has a
valid driver’s license issued in his or her name issued by the state secretary
of state or by a foreign jurisdiction.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person driving or operating a golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle to make a direct crossing upon or across any
toll road, interstate highway, or controlled access highway within the village.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person driving or operating a golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle to make a direct crossing upon or across any
other highway under the jurisdiction of the village except at an intersection
of the highway with another public street, road or highway.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle on any village roadway unless, at a minimum,
such golf cart or recreational off-highway vehicle has the following equipment:
brakes, a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, red reflectorized
warning devices in the front and rear, a slow moving emblem (as required of
other vehicles in the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12-709) on the rear of
the golf cart or recreational off-highway vehicle, a headlight that emits a
white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front, a tail lamp that
emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear, brake lights
and turn signals.
   F.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle on any village roadway without the headlight
and tail lamps lighted on the golf cart or recreational off-highway vehicle as
required by the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12-201.
   G.   A person who drives or operates or is in actual physical control of a
golf-cart or recreational off-highway vehicle on a village roadway while under
the influence is subject to the Illinois Vehicle Code §§ 11-500 through 11-502,
being 625 ILCS 5/11-501 through 625 ILCS 5/11-502. It is unlawful for any
person to drive, operate or be in actual physical control of a golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle on a village roadway in violation of any one
or more of said sections of the state vehicle code.
   H.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle on any village roadway without having the
mandatory insurance coverage as required under the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625
ILCS 5/7-601 et seq.
   I.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle on any sidewalk within the village.
   J.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle on any village roadway in violation of any
traffic regulation or regulations under the state village code.
   K.   1.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle on any village roadway unless it has been
inspected and issued an annual permit or a one-time special event permit from
the village. Such annual permit shall be issued for a time period that
commences on June 1 and terminates on May 31 of the following year unless
sooner revoked by the village for non-compliance of the equipment requirements
for such golf cart or recreational off-highway vehicle.
      2.    Anyone obtaining such annual golf cart permit or annual
recreational off-highway vehicle permit shall pay the village a non-prorated
fee of $25; provided, however, for a fee of $5 a one-time special event permit
may be issued for a golf cart or recreational off-highway vehicle during any
calendar year.
      3.   The village’s chief of police and/or his or her designee shall be in
charge of such inspection. The golf cart or recreational off-highway vehicle
being inspected must meet the equipment requirements as set forth in subsection
E. above.
      4.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle on any village roadway unless such permit
(sticker form) is affixed and openly displayed on the rear of the golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle near the slow moving emblem.
(Ord. 855, passed 7-9-2018; Ord. 887, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 6-7-5 GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY.
   No action by the village under this chapter or under 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1
designates the operation of a golf cart or recreational off-highway vehicle as
an intended or permitted use of property with respect to the Local Government
and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act § 3-102, being 745 ILCS 10/1-101
et seq.
(Ord. 855, passed 7-9-2018)
§ 6-7-6 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, for each
offense, be fined and punished as provided in § 1-4-1 for each separate
offense. Each day upon which a violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 855, passed 7-9-2018)
TITLE 7: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   Chapter
      
1.    STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
         
1A.    SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
         
1B.    DRIVEWAYS AND CULVERTS
         
1C.    OVERHANGING SIGNS AND AWNINGS
      
2.    EXCAVATIONS
      
3.    TREES AND SHRUBS
      
4.    SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 1: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
7-1-1   Street Department
   
7-1-2   Alleys And Gutters To Be Clean
   
7-1-3   Deposits On Public Ways And Places
   
7-1-4   Merchandise Display, Writing On Public Ways And Places
   
7-1-5   Buildings And Building Materials
   
7-1-6   Stairway Railings
   
7-1-7   Stormwater Drains
   
7-1-8   Damage To New Pavements
   
7-1-9   Closing Streets
   
7-1-10   Advertisements On Poles
   
7-1-11   Riding Vehicles And Bicycles On Sidewalks
   
7-1-12   Moving Buildings
§ 7-1-1 STREET DEPARTMENT.
   A.   Established; Composition. There is hereby established a department of
the municipal government which shall be known as the street department. It
shall embrace the street committee, the general superintendent and the
employees. The village engineer, if any, shall serve as ex officio officer.
(1987 Code, § 33-1-1)
   B.   Committee On Streets And Alleys. The village board standing committee
on streets and alleys shall exercise a general supervision over the affairs of
the street department. The committee shall ascertain the needs and conditions
thereof and shall, from time to time, report the same to the mayor and the
village board.
(1987 Code, § 33-1-2)
§ 7-1-2 ALLEYS AND GUTTERS TO BE CLEAN.
   It shall be the duty of every person owning any lot or parcel of land
adjoining any public or private alley in the village to keep the same clean and
in an inoffensive condition, and also to keep the gutter in front of the
premises owned or occupied by him or her and under his or her control free from
filth or other matter that may prevent the free flow of water therein.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-3)
§ 7-1-3 DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS AND PLACES.
   A.   Streets And Public Places.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any other
articles, such as glass, which may cause injury to any person, animal or
property.
      2.   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground, or in any public street, alley or sidewalk in the village, any debris,
materials or obstruction, except as may be permitted by this code.
      3.   It shall be the duty of the police department to exercise a vigilant
supervision over such places and to notify any person found making such deposit
or responsible for same to remove the offending matter at once.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to deposit, place, blow onto or cause to be
deposited or placed or blown onto any public street any grass clippings, weed
clippings, plant clippings, leaves, yard waste or any other waste material.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-9)
   B.   Sidewalks.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
      2.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet; and provided, that no such article shall remain on such
walk for more than one-half hour.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-8)
   C.   Fire Hydrants. No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any
snow and/or ice on or against a fire hydrant or on any sidewalk or roadway.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-2) (Ord. 783, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 7-1-4 MERCHANDISE DISPLAY, WRITING ON PUBLIC WAYS AND PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise
for sale, or to write or make any signs or advertisements on any such
pavements, unless permission is granted by the village board.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-12)
§ 7-1-5 BUILDINGS AND BUILDING MATERIALS.
   A.   Encroaching Buildings. It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any
building or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-13)
   B.   Building Materials In Public Ways.
      1.   Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or improving any
lot on any street may deposit materials thereon and contiguous thereto for such
length of time as may be necessary for the work. The obstruction shall not
extend to more than one-half of the width of the sidewalk, street or alley
adjacent to such improvement, and the gutter shall always be left free and
unobstructed.
      2.   The general superintendent may move any obstruction on any street or
sidewalk of the village, but before doing so, he or she shall notify the person
responsible therefor to remove such obstruction within a reasonable time after
being notified.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-11)
§ 7-1-6 STAIRWAY RAILINGS.
   Steps or stairways leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of such building onto any pavement or sidewalk, and in such case, the person
making or causing to be made such passage shall erect a railing on the side of
the stairs toward the street, to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-4)
§ 7-1-7 STORMWATER DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
stormwater drain which discharges water onto any sidewalk in the village, and
it shall be unlawful to construct or permit the maintenance of any such drain
which discharges into any public street or alley at a height greater than 18
inches above the ground or pavement.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-10)
§ 7-1-8 DAMAGE TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
destroy any newly laid sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade, or to unknowingly injure any soft, newly laid pavement.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-15)
§ 7-1-9 CLOSING STREETS.
   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street, alley or
public place requires it, the mayor may order any street, alley or public place
temporarily closed to traffic and the placing of signs indicating that the
street, alley or public place is closed by order of the mayor. Whenever such
signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon or across such street,
alley or public place, or in any manner destroy, deface or remove any such
sign.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-5)
§ 7-1-10 ADVERTISEMENTS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint, or fasten, or cause to be nailed,
tacked, painted or fastened, any sign or any other foreign substance or
material on any telephone, telegraph, electric light, police and/or fire alarm
pole or post, or any street or traffic sign located on any sidewalk, street,
alley or public grounds or injure or deface any such pole or post.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-14)
Cross-reference:
   Posting Bills, see
5-4-4-5
   Unlawful Advertising, see §
4-1-1 M.
§ 7-1-11 RIDING VEHICLES AND BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any bicycle or vehicle over any sidewalk, except in
crossing the same to go into a yard or parking lot. Any person damaging any
sidewalk by operation of any vehicle shall pay all expenses for repair or
replacement of said sidewalk made by the village.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-7)
§ 7-1-12 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   No person shall remove or cause to be removed any building through or along
any street, avenue
or alley of the village without a written permit from the mayor therefor, nor
shall any person, in removing such building, unnecessarily encumber or obstruct
any street, avenue, or alley, nor permit such operation for a longer time than
may be necessary in the prompt and diligent removal thereof.
(1987 Code, § 33-2-17)
ARTICLE A: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
Section
   
7-1A-1   Permit Requirements; Inspections
   
7-1A-2   Installation And Repair Work
   
7-1A-3   Sidewalk Grade
   
7-1A-4   Subdivisions Exempt
   
7-1A-5   Violations; Penalties
§ 7-1A-1 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; INSPECTIONS.
   A.   Application For Permit. Every owner or owners of real property which
fronts or is located adjacent to any street within the village who desire(s) to
have installed a public sidewalk on or adjacent to their real property or to
have any existing public sidewalk on or adjacent to their real property
repaired or replaced must first file a written application with the village for
a sidewalk permit, and such application shall be in a form as the village board
of trustees or the village president may determine from time to time.
   B.   Review Of Permit. Such written application shall be reviewed by the
village board of trustees at a village board meeting; provided, however, if §
7-1A-2 B applies, the village president is authorized to review such written
application and to grant or deny, in his or her sole discretion, a sidewalk
permit in accordance with said §
7-1A-2 B.
   C.   Inspections. The village general superintendent, if directed by the
village board or the village president, as the case may be, shall inspect the
subject real property to determine whether the subject existing public
sidewalk, if any, is in need of repair or replacement and whether such existing
sidewalk has been damaged or become deteriorated through acts of God or nature
or through the negligence the same according to the instructions of the general
superintendent and the village board.
(1987 Code, § 33-5-1)
§ 7-1A-2 INSTALLATION AND REPAIR WORK.
   A.   Except as provided in §
7-1A-1C, all sidewalk permit applications shall be determined on a first come
first serve basis. If any sidewalk permit is granted by the majority vote of
the village board of trustees, then the installation of any such new public
sidewalk and/or the repair and/or replacement of any such existing public
sidewalk shall be installed and/or repaired and/or replaced by the village and/
or by its contractor(s), designated from time to time by the village board;
provided, however, the owner or owners of the real property shall jointly and
severally be responsible for and shall pay the village a sum equal to 50% of
the cement, materials, machinery and labor total costs, as determined from time
to time by the village in its sole discretion, to perform such sidewalk work.
Such 50% amount shall be paid to the village prior to commencement of, and as a
condition precedent to, any such sidewalk work. All such sidewalk work shall be
scheduled and performed at the convenience of the village and/or its designated
contractor(s). The specifications for the cement and the length, width, depth
and location of such sidewalk(s) shall be determined from time to time by the
village board in its sole discretion. If the village board deems it necessary,
every owner of real property issued a sidewalk permit shall sign and deliver to
the village a perpetual easement over the subject real property for the
installation, location, relocation, maintenance, repair or replacement of such
sidewalk. The easement instrument shall be in such form and shall contain such
terms and provisions as the village board shall determine from time to time in
its sole discretion. The preparation cost of such easement and the recording
thereof and any required title insurance policy costs shall be paid by such
owner(s) prior to commencement of, and as a condition precedent to, any such
sidewalk work.
   B.   If such owner(s) desire to expedite such sidewalk work and state in
such application they are willing to pay 100% of such sidewalk work, then
subsection A. above shall not apply, and if the village president, in his sole
discretion, approves such written application and grants a sidewalk permit,
then the installation of any such new public sidewalk and/or the repair and/or
replacement of any such existing public sidewalk shall be installed and/or
repaired and/or replaced by the village and/or by its contractor(s) designated
from time to time by the village board; provided, however, the owner or owners
of the real property shall jointly and severally be responsible for and shall
pay the village a sum equal to 100% of the cement, materials, machinery and
labor total costs, as determined from time to time by the village in its sole
discretion, to perform such sidewalk work. Such 100% amount shall be paid to
the village prior to commencement of, and as a condition precedent to, any such
sidewalk work. All such sidewalk work shall be scheduled by the village
president which need not be on a first come first serve basis as set forth in
the subsection A. above, and all such sidewalk work shall be performed by the
village and/or its contractor(s) at their respective convenience. The
specifications for the cement and the length, width, depth and location of such
sidewalk(s) shall be determined from time to time by the village board in its
sole discretion. If the village president deems it necessary, every owner of
real property issued a sidewalk permit shall sign and deliver to the village a
perpetual easement over the subject real property for the installation,
location, relocation, maintenance, repair or replacement of such sidewalk. The
easement instrument shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and
provisions as the village board shall determine from time to time in its sole
discretion. The preparation cost of such easement and the recording thereof and
any required title insurance policy costs shall be paid by such owner(s) prior
to commencement of, and as a condition precedent to, any such sidewalk work.
(Ord. 720, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 7-1A-3 SIDEWALK GRADE.
   No sidewalk shall be built above or below the established grade of the
village, and in all cases where no grade is established, any person building a
sidewalk shall build the same according to the instructions of the general
superintendent and the village board.
(1987 Code, § 33-5-1)
§ 7-1A-4 SUBDIVISIONS EXEMPT.
   This article is not applicable to new sections.
(1987 Code, § 33-5-1)
§ 7-1A-5 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   A.   Violations.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, entity or corporation
(except for the village or its designee(s) as referred to in this article) to
install, construct, repair or replace any new or existing public sidewalk, in
whole or in part, within the village.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, entity or corporation
(except for the village or its designee(s) as referred to herein) to remove or
damage or destroy or relocate any public sidewalk, in whole or in part.
   B.   Penalties.
      1.   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any person, firm,
entity or corporation who damages and/or destroys any public sidewalk, in whole
or in part, shall pay the village, within 14 days following demand by the
village, an amount equal to 100% of all costs incurred by the village to repair
and/or replace such sidewalk(s). It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
entity or corporation to damage or destroy any public sidewalk, in whole or in
part (excepting the village and/or its employees and/or the village’s
authorized representatives or contractors who may have been given specific
authority by the village to damage and/or destroy any public sidewalk).
      2.   Any person, firm, entity or corporation who violates any of the
provisions in this article shall be fined, upon conviction thereof, a sum not
less than $250 and not more than $750 for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day upon which such violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 720, passed 5-8-2006)
ARTICLE B: DRIVEWAYS AND CULVERTS
Section
   
7-1B-1   Driveways
   
7-1B-2   Culverts
§ 7-1B-1 DRIVEWAYS.
   A.   Permit Requirements. No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles
or animals across any sidewalk in the village without having first obtained a
permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the village
board of trustees and shall be accompanied by a fee of $1.
(1987 Code, §§ 33-7-1 and 33-7-2)
   B.   Surface And Grade.
      1.   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as
nearly as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway
where the same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render
it slippery and hazardous to pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion
vary from the grade of the sidewalk or be other than level.
(1987 Code, § 33-7-3)
   C.   Construction Specifications. Driveways across sidewalks shall be
constructed in compliance with the specifications required by the village board
of trustees.
(1987 Code, § 33-7-4)
   D.   Maintenance And Repair. It shall be the duty of the person maintaining
the driveway to keep the same in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and
tree from obstruction and openings.
(1987 Code, § 33-7-5)
§ 7-1B-2 CULVERTS.
   A.   Obstruction Of Drain Or Storm Sewer Prohibited. It shall be unlawful to
obstruct any drain or storm sewer in any public street or property.
(1987 Code, § 33-6-1)
   B.   Permit Requirements.
      1.   Permit Required. It shall be unlawful to install any culvert or
replace any culvert without first obtaining a permit from the village board of
trustees.
(1987 Code, § 33-6-2)
      2.   Application For Permit. Any person desiring a permit to install or
replace any culvert shall file an application therefor with the village board
of trustees upon a form to be provided for that purpose. The application and
the permit issued pursuant thereto shall be on the same form which shall be as
provided by the village.
(1987 Code, § 33-6-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Construction Requirements.
      1.   General Requirements. All culverts shall be installed or replaced
where driveways or walkways cross open ditches within the village right-of-way.
Such culvert(s) shall be of such materials, length, diameter and gauge and
shall be installed at the grade and constructed with coupling joints, as
determined by the village board of trustees from time to time in its sole
discretion.
      2.   Costs. The applicant desiring the installation or replacement of a
culvert or culverts shall pay the village for the cost of the culvert pipe(s)
and coupling joint(s), and the applicant shall deliver the culvert pipe(s) and
coupling joint(s) to the site prior to installation or replacement of such
culvert(s).
      3.   Work Done By Village. The village will install or replace the
culvert(s) and will initially place rock, of a kind, quantity, and quality as
the general superintendent shall determine, over the culvert area(s) all at a
time convenient to the village. Immediately upon the installation or
replacement of such culvert(s), the applicant shall pay the village for its
labor, equipment and rock cost to install or replace any one culvert that
exceeds 30 feet in length. The village will provide, free of charge, the labor,
equipment and initial rock to install or replace a culvert not to exceed 30
feet in length.
(1987 Code, § 33-6-4)
ARTICLE C: OVERHANGING SIGNS AND AWNINGS
Section
   
7-1C-1   Permit And Compliance Required
   
7-1C-2   Construction Requirements
   
7-1C-3   Height Above Public Ways
   
7-1C-4   Inspections
§ 7-1C-1 PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall erect any sign, signboard, advertisement, banner or rigid
canopy over or across any street, sidewalk, alley or other public way in the
village without having first obtained a permit therefor, as herein provided.
Permits for signs, advertisements, banners, canopies or signboards shall be
issued by the mayor upon payment of the required fee, and said permit shall
designate the location of the proposed structure. All signs, signboards,
advertisements, banners and canopies shall conform to the requirements of
regulations governing the same.
(1987 Code, § 33-8-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 7-1C-2 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All signs and canopies extending over public sidewalks, streets, alleys or
other public places must be securely fastened and constructed so that there
will be no danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from
other causes.
(1987 Code, § 33-8-2)
§ 7-1C-3 HEIGHT ABOVE PUBLIC WAYS.
   The lowest part of any canopy, sign, signboard, advertisement or banner, or
of any nonrigid awning or any support thereof, which extends over any public
way shall be at least ten feet above the level of the walk or public way over
which it extends; but no such sign, signboard, advertisement or banner shall be
maintained over any public way used by vehicles if any part of its support or
if the sign, signboard, advertisement or banner is less than 15 feet above the
level of such public way.
(1987 Code, § 33-8-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
Cross-reference:
   Structures Overhanging Sidewalks, see §
10-1-10 B.1.
§ 7-1C-4 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the mayor or his or her designated representative to
inspect or cause to be inspected every sign, canopy or awning which extends
over any sidewalk, street, alley or other public way. If any such sign or
canopy is found to be insecurely fastened, he or she shall report this fact to
the owner of the sign or to the owner or occupant of the premises on which it
is fastened. If the sign or canopy is not made secure within ten days after
such notice, it may be torn down on order of the mayor.
(1987 Code, § 33-8-4)
CHAPTER 2: EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
7-2-1   Permit Required
   
7-2-2   Application For Permit
   
7-2-3   Bond Required
   
7-2-4   Conditions Of Permit
   
7-2-5   Notice To JULIE; Compliance With State Law
§ 7-2-1 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tunnel under or to make any
excavation in any street, alley or other public place or public right-of-way
within the village without first obtaining a permit from the village board or
in violation of or in variance from the terms of any such written permit.
(1987 Code, § 33-4-1)
§ 7-2-2 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for such permit shall be made to the village board and shall
describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof,
the purpose therefor, and the name and address of the person, firm or
corporation doing the actual excavating work and the name and address of the
person for whom or for which the work is being done. The application shall
contain an agreement that the applicant will comply with the terms and
conditions of such permit and with all ordinances and laws relating to the work
to be done.
(1987 Code, § 33-4-2)
§ 7-2-3 BOND REQUIRED.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
filed with the village clerk a bond in an amount as determined by the village
board, conditioned to indemnify the village for any breach of any such permit
and for any loss, liability or damage, including, without limitation, damages
resulting from cave ins that may result or accrue from or because of the
making, existence or manner of guarding or constructing any such tunnel or
excavation, for a period of one year following completion of such tunnel or
excavation. Such bond shall have as surety a corporation licensed to do
business in the state as a surety company.
(1987 Code, § 33-4-3)
§ 7-2-4 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   A.   As a condition of such permit, the applicant shall hold harmless and
indemnify the village, its officers, employees and agents, from any and all
losses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs, claims, liability
damages, suits or causes of action which may result or accrue, directly or
indirectly, from or because of the making, existence or manner of guarding or
constructing any such tunnel or excavation.
   B.   The village board may further condition such permit upon such other
terms and provisions as they may determine necessary or desirable.
(1987 Code, § 33-4-4)
§ 7-2-5 NOTICE TO JULIE; COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   The permittee, prior to any tunneling or excavation or demolition work,
shall notify all applicable persons, firms, corporations and entities
associated with JULIE (the statewide one call notice system) and shall comply
with all applicable provisions of the Illinois Underground Utility Facilities
Damage Prevention Act, being 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
(Ord. 704, passed 4-11-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 3: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
7-3-1   Definitions
   
7-3-2   Permit To Plant, Trim Or Remove
   
7-3-3   Trees On Private Property
   
7-3-4   Public Utility Poles And Wires
   
7-3-5   Injury To Trees And Shrubs
   
7-3-6   Attaching Items
   
7-3-7   Depositing Cut Materials At Water Well Site
   
7-3-8   Penalty
§ 7-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FALLEN OR CUT TREE OR BUSH. Shall include all or any part of a tree, bush,
shrub or plant of any size, kind or nature, including, but not limited to,
limbs, leaves, trunk or roots, which has fallen due to natural causes or has
been cut down or trimmed by any person.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind, nature or
extent whatsoever.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any village street, avenue, roadway, right-of-way, boulevard,
sidewalk or easement area; the area between a sidewalk and a village street,
alleyway, avenue, roadway or right-of-way; the area between a person’s property
boundary line and a village street, alleyway, avenue, roadway or right-of-way;
and all other areas owned, leased, or maintained by the village or in which the
village has a proprietary interest.
   VILLAGE. The village of Edinburg, Illinois, a municipal corporation.
   VILLAGE WATER WELL SITE. Shall include all interest in any real estate owned
by the village located in the county, and upon which said real estate the
village has water wells that service the village.
(1987 Code, §§ 33-3-7 and 35A-1-1)
§ 7-3-2 PERMIT TO PLANT, TRIM OR REMOVE.
   No persons, except the village, shall plant, replant, trim, cut, prune, top,
remove, dispose of or destroy any tree, shrub, bush or other woody vegetation
located within or overhanging on any public way without first securing a permit
from the village to do so, which permit may be denied by the village in its
sole discretion from time to time; and such permit, if granted, may be subject
to such terms and conditions as the village may determine from time to time.
Such person(s) shall make written application for such permit on a form(s) as
the village may determine from time to time and file same with the village
clerk’s office.
(1987 Code, § 35A-1-2)
§ 7-3-3 TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   A.   Overhanging Public Ways. Every owner of any tree, shrub, bush or other
woody vegetation on private property overhanging any public way shall trim,
cut, prune or top the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct light
from any public way lamp or fixture or obstruct the view of any public way
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of 13 feet and six inches
above the surface of the public way.
(1987 Code, § 35A-1-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Dead, Diseased, Dangerous Trees And Shrubs.
      1.   The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees,
shrubs, bushes or woody vegetation, or broken or decayed limbs or branches
which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. (1987 Code, § 35A-1-3)
      2.   The village, through its village president, shall have the right to
order the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
village when such trees constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor
insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to trees, shrubs, bushes
or other woody vegetation located within any public way within the village. It
is hereby declared that such trees are a public nuisance. The village president
shall notify, in writing, the owners of the property where such trees, shrubs,
bushes or other woody vegetation are located. Removal shall be done by said
owners, at their own expense, within 60 days after the date of the service of
notice.
(1987 Code, § 35A-1-4)
   C.   Interfering With Light And Traffic Visibility. The village shall have
the right to trim, cut, prune, or top any tree, shrub, bush or woody vegetation
on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along
the public way from a public way light or interferes with the visibility of any
traffic control device or sign.
   D.   Injury To Utility Lines. The owners shall trim, cut, prune, top,
remove, dispose of or destroy any tree, shrub, bush or other woody vegetation,
or part thereof, on private property which, by reason of its nature, is
injurious to village sewers, gas lines, water lines or other public
improvements, or is injurious to public electric power lines, telephone lines,
cable television lines or telecommunication lines or systems.
(1987 Code, § 35A-1-3)
§ 7-3-4 PUBLIC UTILITY POLES AND WIRES.
   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and wires in the
streets, alleys or other public places in the village shall, in the absence of
provision in the franchise concerning the subjects, keep such wires and poles
free from and away from any trees, bushes, shrubs or other plants in such
places so far as may be possible and shall keep all such trees, bushes, shrubs
and other plants properly trimmed, subject to the supervision of the general
superintendent, so that no injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or
the trees, bushes, shrubs and other plants by their conduct.
(1987 Code, § 33-3-6)
§ 7-3-5 INJURY TO TREES AND SHRUBS.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree, bush, shrub or other plant planted
in any public place; provided, however, trees may be topped in accordance with
this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 33-3-3)
§ 7-3-6 ATTACHING ITEMS.
   A.   Advertisements Or Notices. It shall be unlawful to attach any sign,
advertisement or notice to any tree, bush, shrub or other plant in any street,
parkway or other public place.
(1987 Code, § 33-3-4)
   B.   Wires Or Rope. It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any
tree, bush, shrub or other plant in any public street, parkway or other public
place without the permission of the village board.
(1987 Code, § 33-3-6)
§ 7-3-7 DEPOSITING CUT MATERIALS AT WATER WELL SITE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person to deposit any fallen or cut
tree, bush, shrub or other plant upon any place at the village water well site.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to any deposits of any fallen or
cut tree, bush, shrub or plant by any village employee authorized to do so by
the village president or his or her authorized delegate.
(1987 Code, §§ 33-3-8 and 33-3-9)
§ 7-3-8 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, for each offense, be punished as provided in §
1-4-1. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day in which a
violation occurs or continues.
(1987 Code, § 35A-1-5)
CHAPTER 4: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
7-4-1   Definitions
   
7-4-2   Permit Required And Insurance Requirements
   
7-4-3   Violations, Release, Hold Harmless And Indemnity And Liability
   
7-4-4   Penalty
§ 7-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any and all individual persons or group of persons, or public or
private or for-profit or not-for-profit or charitable firms, companies,
partnerships, corporations, limited liability companies, associations,
organizations, entities, joint ventures, or fraternal, religious, veterans,
social, service, or civic clubs, organizations, or associations, all of any
kind, nature or extent whatsoever or any and all other groups of any of the
foregoing acting or functioning or participating as a unit, and the owners,
employees, agents, representatives, members, volunteers and members of any and
all of the foregoing, jointly and severally and collectively. The term PERSON
shall not include the village or its officers, officials or employees while
acting in the course of their office or employment.
   SPECIAL EVENT. As used herein shall mean and include a for-profit or not-
for-profit or charitable event or activity of any kind, nature or extent
whatsoever that takes place on village property, in whole or in part, and which
is open or available to the general public or to members of the sponsoring
entity by free or paid admission or invitation or participation. A SPECIAL
EVENT shall also include any and all water fowl, fishing contests or events,
deer hunting, youth or children activities, or block parties conducted or
participated on village property by any and all persons. The SPECIAL EVENT
includes all times on village property in preparation for and during the
SPECIAL EVENT and the dismantling of any equipment or property associated with
the special event after the cessation of the event or activity.
   SPONSORING ENTITY. As used herein shall mean and include any and all persons
who sponsors or organizes or hosts or arranges or conducts or who is in charge
of or is involved with a special event.
   VILLAGE PROPERTY. In whole or in part, any and all village streets,
alleyways, roadways, easements, rights-of-way, public ways, boulevards,
sidewalks, walkways, pavements, curbs and gutters, lakes, waterways and real
estate and improvements thereon of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever
acquired, owned or leased by the village, in whole or in part.
(Ord. 866, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 7-4-2 PERMIT REQUIRED AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Any sponsoring entity who desires a special event to take place on
village property shall first submit a written application signed by a duly
authorized representative of the sponsoring entity for a village permit for
such special event. The application and village permit shall be in such form as
the village clerk may select or prepare from time to time.
   B.   The village board of trustees shall consider and decide whether to
approve each such village permit for a special event from time to time, which
decision shall be at the sole discretion of the village board of trustees from
time to time.
   C.   Unless excused by the village board of trustees in its sole discretion
from time to time after the village board of trustees considers the kind,
nature and extent of the special event for which a sponsoring entity is
requesting a village permit and any associated perceived risks of liability to
the village if the special event is allowed to be conducted on village
property, the sponsoring entity at its sole expense, and as a condition of the
issuance of a village permit for a special event, shall furnish to the village
a certificate of insurance evidencing “occurrence” type insurance coverage and
not “claims made” type insurance coverage in at least the following designated
amounts (unless a lower amount is agreed by the village board of trustees from
time to time) and which shows such insurance coverage at the sponsoring
entity’s sole expense is and will and shall be maintained in force for the
duration of the special event, to-wit:
      1.   Worker’s compensation insurance coverage in the minimum statutory
limits under state law, if applicable;
      2.   General liability insurance coverage in an amount not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate;
      3.   Motor vehicle liability insurance coverage in an amount not less
than $1,000,000 combined single limit; and
      4.   Such insurance shall include, but shall not be limited to, coverage
for personal injuries, including death, and property damages, including, but
not limited to, property damages to village property or property of others.
   D.   After considering the kind, nature and extent of the special event for
which a sponsoring entity is requesting a village permit and any associated
perceived risks of liability to the village if the special event is allowed to
be conducted on village property, the village board of trustees in its sole
discretion from time to time may further require as another condition to the
issuance of a village permit for a special event one or more or all of the
following requirements:
      1.   All said required insurance and the certificate of insurance name as
additional insured the village, a municipal corporation, and its elected and/or
appointed village president, village board of trustees, officials, officers,
employees and agents;
      2.   The certificate of insurance shall provide that the insurer must
give the village notice of cancellation and termination according to the policy
provisions. (Omitted: the certificate of insurance shall also contain the
following statement: “The insurance covered by this certificate shall not be
canceled or altered, except after at least ten days’ written notice has been
received by the village clerk.”);
      3.   The sponsoring entity, at its sole expense, shall obtain and
maintain a special event policy which will provide the aforesaid insurance
coverage and that will also include coverage for all participants in the
special event; and/or
      4.   The prior to the commencement of the special event on village
property the sponsoring entity shall secure signed releases of liability from
all persons who will participate in the special event.
(Ord. 866, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 7-4-3 VIOLATIONS, RELEASE, HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNITY AND LIABILITY.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a sponsoring entity to sponsor or organize or
host or arrange or conduct or be in charge of or involved with a special event
on village property without a village permit for such special event as required
in this chapter.
   B.   If the aforesaid insurance coverage and certificate of insurance are
required as conditions of a village permit for a special event, then it shall
be unlawful for a sponsoring entity to sponsor or organize or host or arrange
or conduct or be in charge of or involved with a special event on village
property without first having secured and delivered to the village clerk the
requisite certificates of insurance evidencing the insurance coverage and
amounts and additional named insured insurance provisions as may be required by
the village board of trustees under this chapter.
   C.   Each sponsoring entity that is issued a village permit for a special
event shall be deemed to have consented to and to have released and shall hold
harmless, indemnify, protect and defend the village and its elected and/or
appointed village president, village board of trustees, officials, officers,
employees and agents from and against any and all loss, damages, costs and
expenses (including, but not limited to, the village’s attorney fees and costs)
liability, claims, demands, suits and causes of action of any kind, nature or
extent whatsoever on account of any and all personal injuries or death or
property damages of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever occurring, arising,
incident to, resulting from, or related directly or indirectly or
consequentially, from such special event.
   D.   Each sponsoring entity of a special event who damages any village
property, in whole or in part, shall be liable to the village for any and all
damages of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever to village property. Such
person shall pay the village the full amount of such damages, as determined by
the village, within ten calendar days immediately following receipt of a
village bill for such damages.
   E.   It is unlawful for any sponsoring entity of a special event to
intentionally damage any village property, in whole or in part. For purpose
hereof, a person acts intentionally when such person’s conscious objective or
purpose is to damage village property, in whole or in part.
(Ord. 866, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 7-4-4 PENALTY.
   Any sponsoring entity or person violating any of the terms and provisions of
this chapter shall be punished in accordance with and as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Ord. 866, passed 9-9-2019)
TITLE 8: PUBLIC UTILITIES
   Chapter
      
1.    GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
2.    GAS SYSTEM
      
3.    SEWER SYSTEM
         
3A.    RATES AND CHARGES
      
4.    WATER SYSTEM
         
4A.    MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM WELL SETBACK ZONES
         
4B.    CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
      
5.    GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
8-1-1   Contract For And Conditions Of Utilities Services
   
8-1-2   Determination Of Individual Customer
   
8-1-3   Rates And Charges
   
8-1-4   Excavations
   
8-1-5   Service Outside Village Limits
   
8-1-6   Costs Of Extensions To Systems
   
8-1-7   Nonliability Of Village For Interrupted Service
   
8-1-8   Noncompliance With Rules
§ 8-1-1 CONTRACT FOR AND CONDITIONS OF UTILITIES SERVICES.
   A.   Customer Accepts Service. The rates, rules and regulations contained in
this title shall constitute and be considered a part of the contract with every
person, company or corporation who is supplied with gas, water and sewer
service from the gas, water and sewer service, and every person, company or
corporation, hereinafter called a CUSTOMER, who accepts and uses gas, water and
sewer services shall be held to have consented to be bound thereby.
   B.   Nonliability Of Village. The department will endeavor at all times to
provide a regular and uninterrupted supply of service, but in case the supply
of service shall be interrupted, or irregular, or defective, or fail from
causes beyond its control or through ordinary negligence of employees, servants
or agents, the department shall not be liable therefor.
   C.   Unlawful Use Of Services Without Payment.
      1.   Any person using utility services from the village without paying
therefor, or who shall be found guilty of breaking the seal of any meter or
appurtenance, or shall bypass any meter shall be fined a sum as provided in
title 1, chapter 4.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-1)
      2.   All contracts for utility services must be made in the name of the
head of the household, firm or corporation, and the established spelling of
that person’s or firm’s or corporation’s name shall be used. Attempts to obtain
service by the use of other names, different spellings or by substituting other
persons or firms will be considered a subterfuge and service will be denied. If
service had been discontinued because of nonpayment of bills, or any unpaid
obligation, and service again has been obtained through subterfuge,
misrepresentation or fraud, that service will be promptly disconnected, and the
whole or such part of the advanced payment, as may be necessary to satisfy the
unpaid obligation, shall be retained by the village and credited to the
appropriate account.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Damage To Property. Any person found guilty of defacing, tampering,
injuring or destroying, or in any manner limiting the use or availability of
any meter or any property of the utility systems, or erecting signs on the
property of the department without permission shall, upon conviction for such
act, be fined as provided in title 1, chapter 4.
   E.   Failure To Receive Bill; Inability Of Village To Bill. Failure to
receive a bill shall not excuse a customer from his or her obligation to pay
within the time specified. Should the department be unable to bill a customer
for services used during any month, the following billing shall include the
charges for services used during the unbilled month. A month shall be
considered as that period of approximately 30 days.
   F.   Responsibility For Services; Request For Discontinuance. Services shall
have been deemed to have been supplied to any property connected to the utility
systems during a month unless the customer notifies the village in writing
prior to the first day of the new billing month in which the services are to be
discontinued.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-1)
   G.   Rules Part Of Contract. All of the rules and regulations concerning the
use of the facilities of the utility systems and the consumption of services
shall be adopted and the same shall become a part of the contract with every
utility consumer, and every consumer shall be considered to take water and gas
from the village subject thereto and shall be bound thereby.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-7)
Cross-reference:
   Nonliability Of Village For Interrupted Service, see §
8-1-7
§ 8-1-2 DETERMINATION OF INDIVIDUAL CUSTOMER.
   All persons or families residing in a building under one roof, be it any
apartment or homes converted into more than one dwelling place, each family or
individual resident residing therein shall be deemed an individual customer,
and such homes or apartments or dwellings shall be billed for at least one
minimum water, sewer and/or gas account, according to the number of families or
individual residents residing therein.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-4)
§ 8-1-3 RATES AND CHARGES.
   A.   Liability For Charges. The owner of any lot, parcel of land or premises
receiving utility services, the occupant of such premises and the user of the
services shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of the services
to such lot, parcel of land or premises, and all services are rendered to the
premises by the village only on the condition that such owner, occupant and
user shall be jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-2)
   B.   Estimated Charges. Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of
repair, or from any cause, fails to properly register the utilities passing
through the same, the consumer shall be charged the average charge of the
previous three months’ usage. If no record of the previous three months exists,
then it shall be the duty of the village treasurer to estimate the amount of
utilities consumed during the time the meter fails to operate, and the customer
shall be charged with such estimated amount. Bills may be estimated whenever it
is impossible to read the meters during inclement weather.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-3)
   C.   Disconnect And Reinstatement Of Discontinued Service And Fees.
      1.   Notwithstanding any provision in this code to the contrary, no gas
and/or water and/or sewer utility service shall be reinstated for any premises,
and no person or entity or customer shall be entitled to have any gas and/or
water and/or sewer utility service reinstated to any premises, until and unless
each and all delinquent utility bill(s) and any and all applicable penalties
for gas and/or water and/or sewer services for such premises have been paid in
full, and all required utility deposits have been paid, and the following
reconnection fees, as applicable, has been paid, and the following special
disconnection fee, if applicable, has been paid.
      2.   The reconnection fee for reinstatement of gas utility service shall
be charged at the rate of $25 per hour, with a minimum fee of $50. The
disconnection fee for gas utility service shall be charged at the rate of $25
per hour, with a minimum fee of $50. The reconnection fee for reinstatement of
water/sewer utility service shall be charged at the rate of $25 per hour, with
a minimum fee of $50. The disconnection fee for water/sewer utility service
shall be charged at the rate of $25 per hour, with a minimum fee of $50.
Notwithstanding the above, if after the village has terminated the gas and/or
water and/or sewer service to the premises for any delinquent utility bill, the
gas meter and/or the water meter for such premises is turned back on by someone
other than an authorized village employee or the gas and/or water and/or sewer
service for such premises is otherwise made operable by someone other than an
authorized village employee, then a $100 special disconnection fee shall be
charged and assessed the owner(s) and occupant(s) and utility customer(s) of
the premises, regardless of who actually turned such utility service back on or
made it operable.
   D.   Attorney Fees And Costs. Any PERSON(S) (as defined under §
1-3-2 ) who fail(s) to timely pay any amount owed to the village under any one
or more provisions of this chapter shall severally and jointly pay all
reasonable attorney fees and court costs and other expenses incurred by the
village in efforts, whether successful or not, to collect such amount(s), to
prosecute any ordinance violation proceeding(s) and/or to obtain and/or enforce
and/or collect any judgment and/or to foreclose any village lien.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-12)
   E.   Bad Checks Policy.
      1.   Determination Of Bad Check. Any check presented by or on behalf of a
customer to the village for payment on any village utility bill, which check is
not honored when first presented for payment by the financial institution upon
which such check is drawn shall be deemed a bad check.
      2.   Fee; Delinquent Payments. For each bad check, the customer shall,
within seven days from the date the village mails a notice to the customer, pay
the village a fee of $25, and shall further pay the village a sum equal to the
amount of such bad check in cash, or by money order, or cashier’s check. If
such payments are not made within such seven-day period, the customer’s utility
bill shall be deemed delinquent, and the customer’s village utility services
shall be thereafter terminated, without further notice to the customer, and not
reinstated until and unless such payments are made and all reinstatement fees
are paid.
      3.   Cash Payments Of Utility Bills. Each customer who has issued more
than two bad checks to the village within any consecutive 12-month period must,
for the next consecutive 12-month period, commencing with the date of the third
bad check, and as a condition for receiving any further village utility
service, pay the village in cash, or by money order, or cashier’s check for all
utility services furnished to the customer during such consecutive 12-month
time period.
   F.   Charges And Rates Amendments. The foregoing charges and rates as set
forth in this section may be amended, modified or revised from time to time by
the village president and board of trustees by ordinance, written or oral
resolution or motion as such corporate authorities may elect from time to time.
(Ord. 702, passed 10-11-2004; Ord. 738, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 8-1-4 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for gas, water, sewer and other utility installations shall
be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public
from hazard. Streets, sidewalks and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-8)
§ 8-1-5 SERVICE OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS.
   A.   No territory or premises located outside the corporate limits of the
village, which is contiguous to the village corporate limits, shall be
connected with the village municipal water and/or sewer and/or gas distribution
system(s) unless and until a valid petition for annexation of said territory or
premises in a form signed by all owners of record of such territory or
premises, and approved by the village board of trustees, is approved by the
village board of trustees in their sole discretion, and such territory or
premises is annexed to the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-10) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   No territory or premises located outside the corporate limits of the
village, which is not contiguous to the village corporate limits, shall be
connected with the village municipal water and/or sewer and/or gas distribution
system(s) unless and until all the owners of record of such territory or
premises enter into an annexation agreement with the village, in a form
acceptable to the village board of trustees, whereby said owners and their
respective heirs, legal and/or personal representatives, executors,
administrators, successors and assigns agree to petition to annex said
territory or premises to the village, subject to village board of trustees
approval, when and if said territory or premises becomes contiguous to the
village corporate limits. Such annexation agreement shall constitute covenants
running with such territory or premises. The village shall have the right to
terminate providing any such gas and/or water and/or sewer service if any such
petition to annex to the village is not filed with the village at the time such
territory or premises becomes contiguous to the village corporate limits.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-10)
§ 8-1-6 COSTS OF EXTENSIONS TO SYSTEMS.
   A.   Water And Sewer Extensions. Within 45 days following the submittal of
an application for a water and/or sewer extension(s), signed by the applicant
(s), the village shall notify such applicant(s) of the estimated cost for
village materials and for village labor and/or use of village machinery and/or
equipment for such extension work (as computed under §
2-1-3  and as required under other provisions of this code). Only village
materials purchased from the village shall be used in such extension work. The
applicant(s) shall pay the village such estimated amount prior to such water
and/or sewer installation extension work being performed by the village. Upon
completion of such installation work by the village, such applicant(s) shall
pay, within 30 days following the mailing of a bill to such applicant(s), such
additional amount for materials, and/or materials actually expended and used
for such extension(s) work. No installation work for such water and/or sewer
extension(s) shall be performed until and unless such estimated payment is
first paid by such applicant to the village.
   B.   Gas Extensions. Within 45 days following the submittal of application
for a gas extension(s), signed by the applicant(s), the village shall notify
such applicant(s) of the estimated cost for village labor and/or use of village
machinery and/or equipment for such extension work (as computed under § 2-1-
3 and as required under other provisions of this code). The applicant(s) shall
pay the village such estimated amount and shall also furnish to the village and
pay for and have approved by the village all required materials prior to any
such gas installation extension work being performed by the village. Upon
completion of such installation work by the village, such applicant(s) shall
pay, within 30 days following the mailing of a bill to such applicant(s), such
additional amount for labor and/or use of village machinery and/or equipment
and/or materials actually expended and used for such extension(s) work. No
installation work for such gas extension(s) shall be performed until and unless
such estimated payment is first paid by the applicant and the required
materials are approved by and furnished by the village.
   C.   Use Of Village Equipment, Materials And Labor. The village estimated
cost for village materials and village labor and/or use of village machinery
and/or equipment for such extension work as referred to in subsections A. and
B. above shall only be good for six months following the village submittal of
such estimated cost; and for any such extension work to be performed six months
after the date of such submitted estimated cost, the applicant must submit a
new application for any such extension work, and the village will thereafter
submit a revised estimated cost good for another six-month period.
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 8-1-7 NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE FOR INTERRUPTED SERVICE.
   All connections for the utility services applied for hereunder, and all
connections now attached to the present utility systems of the village, and all
use of service of the systems shall be upon the express condition that the
village will not be liable for nor shall any claim be made against it for
damages or injury caused by reason of breaking any main, service pipe,
apparatus or appurtenance connected with said utilities or for any interruption
of the supply of services by reason of the breaking of machinery or by reason
of stoppages, alterations or repairs, or by reason of any leaks or by reason of
the shut off of the gas supply of any delinquent user or violator of the
provisions of this code.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-5)
Cross-reference:
   Nonliability Of Village, see §
8-1-1 B.
§ 8-1-8 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH RULES.
   If any consumer fails to fully comply with any of the rules and regulations
in force, the village shall notify the consumer of such failure. If the
consumer does not remedy same as the rules provide and within a reasonable
time, the village shall have the right to discontinue service. Except in cases
of nonpayment, emergency, necessity, or as otherwise provided, the village will
not discontinue service for violation of any rules until five days after notice
has been given and violation has not been remedied.
(1987 Code, § 38-2-6)
CHAPTER 2: GAS SYSTEM
Section
   
8-2-1   Administration Of System
   
8-2-2   Permit For Service
   
8-2-3   Taps And Connections
   
8-2-4   Installation Of Piping; Specifications
   
8-2-5   Meters
   
8-2-6   Ownership And Responsibility
   
8-2-7   Rates And Charges
   
8-2-8   Interruption Of Service
   
8-2-9   Right Of Access To Service Lines; Obstruction Prohibited
   
8-2-10   Maintenance And Repair Of System; Shutoff Authorized
   
8-2-11   Tampering With System Prohibited
   
8-2-12   Relocation Of Meters, Mains And Piping
   
8-2-13   Construction Over Mains
   
8-2-14   Availability Of Gas
   
8-2-15   Penalty
§ 8-2-1 ADMINISTRATION OF SYSTEM.
   A.   Gas Department Established; Composition. There shall be an executive
department of the village known as the gas department. The gas department shall
include the committee on gas, appointed by the mayor, and its employees. The
designated office shall be the village hall.
(1987 Code, § 38-1-1)
   B.   Committee On Gas. The committee on gas shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the gas system. They shall ascertain the
condition and needs thereof; shall, from time to time, report the same to the
mayor and the village board so that a full understanding thereof shall be had;
and generally, shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the gas
department.
(1987 Code, § 38-1-2)
   C.   Duties Of General Superintendent. The duties of the general
superintendent of the village shall be as follows:
      1.   He or she shall, subject to the direction of the village board, have
the general direction and control of the gas department, and shall see that the
object and purpose thereof are carried out, and that the natural gas system is
conducted on an economical, business like basis;
      2.   He or she shall inspect all connections to the gas system at the
time they are made and report to the treasurer the date when the gas is turned
on;
      3.   He or she shall shut off the gas supply of any delinquent user or
violator of the provisions of this title;
      4.   He or she shall determine the size of each connection to be made;
      5.   He or she shall supervise the setting, taking off, and repairing of
all gas meters; and
      6.   He or she shall make all repairs occasioned by leaks or breaks in
the mains of the gas system, and shall shut off the gas from all premises where
leaks are permitted to go unrepaired.
(1987 Code, § 38-1-4)
   D.   Duties Of Village Treasurer. The village treasurer shall issue permits
for connections to the gas system whenever an application for the same has been
made as provided herein.
(1987 Code, § 38-1-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 8-2-2 PERMIT FOR SERVICE.
   A.   Permit And Metered Gas Required. No person shall take any gas from any
main, pipe or other part of the village natural gas transmission line and
distribution system except upon application to the village and issuance by the
village of a permit in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and no
permit shall be issued for any gas supply or service unless the same is
measured through a meter in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-1)
   B.   Application For Permit; Deposit Required.
      1.   Application for gas supply or service shall be as determined from
time to time by the mayor and board of trustees. Such application shall contain
an agreement by the applicant(s) to accept and abide by all the provisions of
this code and all applicable codes, rules and regulations of the village, all
as now or hereafter enacted or amended. In the case of rental property, a total
deposit of $175 shall be paid. When gas service to the applicant is
discontinued, this deposit, minus any amount remaining due the village for gas
service, shall be refunded to the applicant without interest. No such deposit
shall be required of any applicant who is the owner of the premises to be
served by the gas supply or service. For purposes hereof, a contract for deed
purchaser shall be deemed a renter and not an owner of the premises to be
served by gas supply or service.
      2.   The village reserves the right, at any time, to increase the amount
of the required deposit in the case of a renter and to impose a deposit in the
case of an owner in any amount the village deems appropriate as a condition for
initial gas supply or service or for further gas supply or service where such
renter or owner is delinquent in his or her utility bills(s), or has previously
been delinquent in payment of his or her utility bill(s) to the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-2)
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit. Upon receipt of an application as
provided in subsection B. above, a permit may be issued by the village for the
installation of gas service and for the supplying of gas in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, but no permit shall be issued to any applicant
while he or she is in default in the payment of any past due account owing to
the village for gas supply or service or installation theretofore rendered or
made.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-3)
§ 8-2-3 TAPS AND CONNECTIONS.
   A.   Authority. Taps and connections to mains or any part or portion of the
village natural gas transmission line and distribution system shall be made
only by the village and shall be made in accordance with such reasonable rules
and regulations as may be prescribed by the village. The letting of gas to and
the turning off of gas from all buildings, structures or premises and into and
from all connections and service shall be under the exclusive control of the
village, and no plumber or other person shall let gas to or from any service or
connection for any purpose whatever without permission therefor.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-10)
   B.   Application To Connect. Application to install and connect a gas
service with the village natural gas transmission line and distribution system
shall be first made in writing to the village. The forms of application shall
be determined from time to time by the village president and board of trustees
by oral motion. Such application shall contain an agreement by the applicant(s)
to accept and abide by all the provisions of this code and all applicable
codes, rules and regulations of the village or other governing authorities, all
as now or hereafter enacted, adopted or amended.
   C.   Fee And Costs.
      1.   The applicant(s) shall pay to the village the sum of $200 as a
tapping and connection charge. This tapping and connection charge shall be in
addition to any deposit charge as may be required by §
8-2-2B.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-14)
      2.   In addition thereto, the applicant(s) shall pay for all materials,
including, but not limited to, the meter, all pipes, valves, fitting regulators
and other appurtenances which are necessary for the service connection from the
village main to the point where the gas supply is to enter the outside of the
applicant’s structure which is to receive the gas supply. The village or its
contractor shall actually install the meter and the connecting gas line and
such materials from the village main to the point where the gas supply is to
enter the outside of the applicant’s structure which is to receive the gas
supply. All such materials paid for by the applicant(s) and the gas meter and
such materials furnished by the village shall become and remain the property of
the village. The installation work shall be completed in accordance with the
guidelines set forth in the National Fire Protection Association’s most recent
edition of NFPA 54: national fuel gas code, which is incorporated herein by
reference.
   D.   Nonoperating Meters. Notwithstanding the above, if the village replaces
any nonoperating gas meter, it shall be at no cost to the customer.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-14) (Amd. 2008 Code)
(Ord. 810, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 8-2-4 INSTALLATION OF PIPING; SPECIFICATIONS.
   A.   1.   The piping from the gas meter of the natural gas transmission line
and distribution system through the foundation of the building where gas is to
be used shall be rigid steel pipe. Said rigid pipe shall be run to all gas
appliances permanently affixed to the structure, housing the same, such as hot
water heaters and gas furnaces, whether of the basement, floor or wall type. In
the installation of space heaters, clothes dryers and gas ranges which may be
regarded as personal property rather than something affixed to the real estate,
or a permanent part of the building housing the same, said rigid pipe shall
run, either to and be connected with said gas appliances, or at the option of
the owner, it may be run to within three feet or less of the gas appliances and
then connected to the gas appliances by Underwriter Laboratories approved flex
line. Said rigid pipe shall be used not only through the foundation of the
building but also through any floor before Underwriter Laboratories approved
flex line is connected thereto. A cutoff valve shall be installed in the rigid
pipe as nearly as practical to each gas appliance so that gas may be
disconnected from each gas appliance separately without disconnecting the gas
from the other appliances. All customer piping and necessary venting of
appliances shall be in accordance with guidelines set forth in the National
Fire Protection Association’s most recent edition of NFPA 54: national fuel gas
code, which is incorporated herein by reference.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-17) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   If, during any inspection of a property owner’s premises by the
village employee, it is determined that the gas piping in said premises is in
violation of this subsection A. and the gas pipe conditions are determined to
be relatively and reasonably safe, then the property owner(s) of said premises
shall have 30 days, after notice given by the village, to repair or replace
said gas piping within or on said premises so as to be in compliance with the
provisions of this subsection. If it is determined or expected that the gas
piping on or within a property owner’s premises is not in compliance with this
subsection, and the condition of the existing gas piping is determined unsafe,
or the property owner fails to permit a village employee to enter the property
owner’s premises to make an inspection, then the gas service to said premises
shall be immediately shut off until such inspection is permitted by such
property owner(s) and the gas piping is repaired or replaced, as necessary to
come into compliance with this subsection A.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-17)
   B.   No plastic, polyethylene, copper or brass pipe may be connected above
the ground with the village natural gas transmission and distribution system.
No plastic or polyethylene pipe, and no copper or brass pipe or stainless trac
pipe (except as allowed in subsection A. above) may be used from the meter to
the structure and/or in the structure, house or building connected with the
above system.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-18) (Amd. 2008 Code)
(Ord. 810, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 8-2-5 METERS.
   A.   Separate Meters Required. No person shall connect gas pipes or conduct
gas into any two distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct
meters shall be placed and located for each such premises, nor shall any gas
pipe be allowed to cross into adjoining premises.
   B.   Inaccurate, Defective Meters. If a customer using the gas from the gas
supply believes the meter servicing his or her premises is inaccurate or
defective, the customer shall have two options:
      1.   The customer may purchase and pay for a new meter through the
village; or
      2.   The customer may request the village to remove and have the gas
meter checked for accuracy. If the meter is found, upon inspection, not to be
accurate within 3%, the village shall then repair or replace the meter and
adjust the customer’s gas bill accordingly for the three months preceding such
inspection. If, upon inspection, the meter is found to be within 3% of being
accurate, then the customer shall pay the village immediately for all costs of
the inspection, and no adjustment shall be made to the consumer’s gas bills.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-11)
§ 8-2-6 OWNERSHIP AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   All meters, pipes and other equipment which are installed by the village
shall be and remain the property of the village, and consumers using the same
shall be responsible for the safekeeping thereof. If any meter, pipe or other
equipment which is installed by the village shall be damaged or destroyed by
any cause which could have been prevented by exercising ordinary care and
caution, then, and in such case, the cost of repairing or replacing the same
shall be charged to and paid by the consumer responsible therefor.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-12)
§ 8-2-7 RATES AND CHARGES.
   A.   Rates Established And Required.
      1.   Effective on and after July 8, 2002, gas supplied through meters
shall be at the rates set by the mayor and the village board as now exist or as
may be amended or revised from time to time hereafter by motion adopted by the
affirmative majority vote of the mayor and village board of trustees. (1987
Code, § 38-3-6)
      2.   No customer of the gas utility shall receive any free service of any
kind whatsoever, and further, the village shall pay the regularly established
rates and charges as provided by this section for all gas consumed or used by
the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-16)
   B.   Estimated Charge. If a meter fails to register at any time the quantity
of gas, the quantity shall be estimated, and the charge to be made shall be
based on the average of that month for the previous three years.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-9) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Change Of Rates. The rates for gas services prescribed in this section
may be changed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees, at any time, and the village shall not be deemed to have contracted
with any consumer to maintain such rates for any period of time whatever. The
rates for gas service shall further be subject to the increases imposed from
time to time by the village gas supplier.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-13) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Payment Of Bill; Late Payment Penalty.
      1.   Gas rates shall be paid to the village on or before the sixteenth
day of the month in which due; provided, if such rates are not paid on or
before such date, a penalty of 10% shall be added thereto.
      2.   If such sixteenth day falls on Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday,
bills shall not be considered delinquent until 12:00 a.m. the next working day.
      3.   Postmarks and dates written on checks shall not constitute proof of
payment to avoid penalty.
   E.   Returned Check Fee. If any check is returned to the village for
insufficient funds, a 10% penalty, plus an insufficient funds charge, shall be
assessed against such customer for gas service without the consent of the mayor
and the village board.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-6)
   F.   Delinquent Payments; Shut Off Of Service; Lien Provisions.
      1.   The charges for gas services rendered during each calendar month
shall be billed on the first working day of the succeeding calendar month and
payable to the village on the sixteenth day of such succeeding month. In the
event of the nonpayment of any gas bill and penalties thereon on or before the
thirtieth day of the month in which the same falls due, the gas service to such
delinquent gas customer’s premises may be shut off and discontinued by the
village at any time thereafter, without further notice to such gas customer,
subject, however, to the restrictions imposed by 65 ILCS 5/11-117-12.1.
(Amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   In the event any delinquent gas bill is turned over to the village
attorney for purposes of collection or foreclosure of lien, the debtor or
debtors shall jointly and severally pay all reasonable attorney fees and any
court costs incurred by the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-6)
(Ord. 702, passed 10-11-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Bad Checks Policy, see §
8-1-3 E.
§ 8-2-8 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   Notwithstanding anything in this title to the contrary and in addition to
any other provision(s) in this title, the village does not guarantee that gas
service will never be interrupted or curtailed and, accordingly:
   A.   From time to time, it may be necessary or desirable that natural gas
service be temporarily interrupted for maintenance, construction, repair,
emergencies or other purposes or due to unavailability or shortage of gas
supplies to meet the demands of the village gas customers. During such periods,
the village assumes no responsibility for resulting loss of heat, products,
materials, plants, animals or other such things that might be affected by the
fact that gas service is interrupted or curtailed for a period of time.
   B.   Any village gas customer having a facility, operation, process or
activity that cannot tolerate temporary interruption or curtailment of gas
service shall provide an alternate source of on site fuel or heat for
utilization during such interruption or curtailment. The responsibility for
this alternate rests fully with such gas customer(s).
(1987 Code, § 38-3-15A)
§ 8-2-9 RIGHT OF ACCESS TO SERVICE LINES; OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall in any manner obstruct or permit or cause to be obstructed
the free access of any officer or employee of the village to any valve, meter,
shutoff box or connection with any gas main or service pipe by means of coal,
lumber, brick, building material or by any other means, shift or device
whatever, or refuse or prevent free access thereto by such officer or employee
that shall desire access thereto in the performance of his or her duties. The
officers of the village and any and every person delegated or authorized by the
village for such purpose shall have free access to all and any part of any
building, structure or premises to which gas is supplied by the village for the
purpose of examining the taps, pipes, fixtures and gas operated appliances or
gas operated apparatus of any kind therein. Any person in possession of
property unto which any such officer or employee shall desire to make entry or
to have access for the purposes herein specified, who shall refuse to permit
such entry or access, or who shall do or cause to be done any act or thing for
the purpose of preventing such entry or access, shall be punished as herein
provided.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 8-2-10 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF SYSTEM; SHUTOFF AUTHORIZED.
   Each gas customer of the village shall, at his or her own expense, maintain,
at all times, in good order and repair, any and all gas furnaces, gas stoves,
gas ovens, gas water heaters, gas washers, gas dryers, gas operated toilets,
gas operated fireplaces and any and all other gas appliances or gas operated or
fired fixture or apparatus of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever located in,
upon or under the gas customer’s property to which the village gas supply or
gas distribution system is connected. The general superintendent or the village
delegate, subject to the direction of the village board, shall have the right
to shut off the gas supply to any property in which it is determined in the
sole discretion of the village that any such gas operated appliance, fixture or
apparatus is not in good order and repair or is otherwise defective and which
may or could cause injury to any person or property or be a risk to any person
or property.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-21)
§ 8-2-11 TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move, replace, tamper with or
interfere in any manner with any gas main, pipe, meter or other part of the
natural gas transmission line and distribution system without a permit therefor
as provided in this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-4)
§ 8-2-12 RELOCATION OF METERS, MAINS AND PIPING.
   A.   In the event the village corporate authorities, by majority vote,
determine it is necessary to hereafter move the location of any gas meter,
main, pipe or other part of the village natural gas transmission line and
distribution system by reason of such gas main, pipe or other part of said
village gas system being located, in whole or in part, under any building,
driveway, structure, patio or other improvement of any kind, nature or extent
whatsoever, or by reason of violation of any other village ordinances, or in
the event the owner(s) of the premises where such gas meter, main, pipe or
other part of the village natural gas transmission line and distribution system
is located requests the relocation of any such gas meter, main, pipe or other
part of such system for his or her convenience, then, in either event, the
owner(s) of the premises where such gas meter, main, pipe or other part of said
system is located shall immediately pay the village for the actual cost for the
gas meter, if another one is installed and for all materials, labor and
machinery costs to relocate such gas meter, main, pipe or other part of said
system, and the village shall actually perform the work to relocate such gas
meter, main, pipe or other part of said system.
   B.   If owner(s) desire(s) to relocate such gas meter, main, pipe or other
part of said system for convenience purposes, then such owner(s) must first
submit a signed application to the village requesting such relocation, which
application shall be on a form approved by the village board of trustees from
time to time. The president and board of trustees, by majority vote, shall
determine whether to grant such request.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-20)
§ 8-2-13 CONSTRUCTION OVER MAINS.
   No person shall hereafter construct, erect or install any building,
structure, patio or other improvement of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever
which would become situated over any gas main, pipe or other part of the
village natural gas transmission line and distribution system without having
first applied for, in writing, and obtained a construction permit from the
village. The village president and board of trustees, by majority vote, may
impose any requirements in conjunction with the issuance of such construction
permit as they deem necessary to protect the village natural gas transmission
line and distribution system. The corporate authorities, by majority vote, can
determine at any time and from time to time that it is necessary in their
opinion that any gas meter, main, pipe or other part of the village natural gas
transmission line and distribution system must be relocated, and such
determination shall be binding and conclusive upon the owner(s) of the premises
where such gas meter, main, pipe or other part of said system is located.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-19)
Cross-reference:
   Restrictions On Permits, see §
10-2-2 E.2.
§ 8-2-14 AVAILABILITY OF GAS.
   If, at any time and for any reason, the volume of gas available for delivery
by the village is not adequate to supply all the demands of the village, the
village shall have the right, upon such notice as the village deems reasonable
under the circumstances, to reduce or discontinue the delivery of gas, first to
its medium commercial users, next to its small commercial users, and finally to
its residential users, and such reduction or discontinuance, as the case may
be, shall continue as long as such shortage or supply exists. Notice of
reduction or discontinuance of delivery shall be given to users on a reasonable
nondiscriminatory basis. Whenever notice is given by the village to any user to
reduce or discontinue his or her use of gas, such consumer shall comply
therewith until such consumer is notified by the village that such shortage no
longer exists. If any user fails to reduce his or her use of gas in compliance
with any notice for him or her to do so, the village may completely discontinue
supplying gas to him or her while such shortage continues. For the purposes of
this section but not as a limitation thereof, the village supply of gas shall
be deemed to be inadequate if, and to the extent that, the total demands on it
exceed the village contract demand under its contract with its supplier.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-15)
§ 8-2-15 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in §
1-4-1 for each offense, and each day that a violation of this chapter occurs
shall constitute a separate offense. The cutting off of the supply of gas to
any premises, or the forfeiture of gas rates paid, or the imposition of any
liability or expense herein otherwise provided for on account of any violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter shall not be held to exempt any such
person from the penalty provided by this section.
(1987 Code, § 38-3-22) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
8-3-1   Administration Of System
   
8-3-2   Definitions
   
8-3-3   Use Of Public Sewers Required
   
8-3-4   Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
8-3-5   Building Sewers And Connections
   
8-3-6   Storm Sewers
   
8-3-7   Discharges Into System
   
8-3-8   Interceptors
   
8-3-9   Pretreatment Or Flow Equalization
   
8-3-10   Control Manhole
   
8-3-11   Measurements, Tests And Analyses
   
8-3-12   Special Agreements
   
8-3-13   Blockage, Obstructions And Other Problems
   
8-3-14   Damage To, Tampering With System
   
8-3-15   Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
   
8-3-16   Additional Requirements
   
8-3-17   Violations; Penalties
§ 8-3-1 ADMINISTRATION OF SYSTEM.
   A.   Sewer Department Established; Composition. There shall be an executive
department of the village known as the sewer department. The sewer department
shall include the committee on sewer, appointed by the mayor, and its
employees. The designated office shall be the village hall.
(1987 Code, § 38-1-10)
   B.   Committee On Sewer. The committee on sewer shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the sanitary sewerage system. They shall
ascertain the condition and needs thereof; shall, from time to time, report the
same to the mayor and village board so that a full understanding thereof shall
be had; and generally, shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of
the sewer department. (1987 Code, § 38-1-11)
   C.   Duties Of General Superintendent. The duties of the general
superintendent of the village shall be as follows:
      1.   He or she shall, subject to the direction of the village board, have
the general direction and control of the sewer department, and shall see that
the object and purpose thereof are carried out, and that the sewerage system is
conducted in an economical, businesslike basis;
      2.   He or she shall inspect all connections to the sewerage system at
the time they are made and report to the treasurer the date when the sewerage
connection is completed;
      3.   He or she shall determine the size of each connection to be made;
and
      4.   He or she shall make all repairs occasioned by leaks or breaks in
the mains of the sewerage system that the village is responsible for
maintaining.
(1987 Code, § 38-1-13)
   D.   Duties Of Village Treasurer. The village treasurer shall issue permits
for connections to the sanitary systems whenever an application for the same
has been made as provided herein.
(1987 Code, § 38-1-13) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 8-3-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A.   Federal Government.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The administrator of the United States environmental
protection agency.
      FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq., as amended.
(Pub. Law No. 95-217)
      FEDERAL GRANT. The United States government participation in the
financing of the construction of treatment works as provided by title II,
grants for construction of treatment works of the act and implementing
regulations.
   B.   Local Government.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY. The wastewater treatment plant operator of the
village.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
      NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the administrator or, where appropriated by the director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act, § 402, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342, to regulate the
discharge of pollutants pursuant to the federal act § 402.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
      VILLAGE. The village of Edinburg.
   C.   Sewer Types And Appurtenances.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building
wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater and storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      MAY. The term herein is permissible.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. The term shall also include sewers within or outside the village
boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the
village sanitary (or combined sewer) system, even though those sewers may not
have been constructed with village funds.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial process waters are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water
drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
      SHALL. The term herein is mandatory.
   D.   State Government.
      DIRECTOR. The director of the state environmental protection agency.
      STATE ACT. The state anti-pollution bond act of 1970.
      STATE GRANT. The state participation in the financing of the construction
of treatment works as provided for by the Build Illinois Bond Act, being 30
ILCS 425/1 et seq., and for making such grants as filed with the state
secretary of state.
   E.   Treatment.
      PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge; sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   F.   Types Of Charges.
      BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve, extend
or reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
      DEBT SERVICE COST. The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond and the like) outstanding.
      LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
      REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
      SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewer system.
      SURCHARGE. The assessment, in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in article A of this
chapter.
      USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/
or treatment works will be operated.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
      WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per month levied on all users of
the wastewater facilities. The SERVICE CHARGE shall be computed as outlined in
article A of this chapter and shall consist of the total of the basic user
charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
   G.   User Types.
      COMMERCIAL USER. Shall include transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
      CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial
wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop.
The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
      INDUSTRIAL USERS. Shall include establishments engaged in the
manufacturing activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of
materials of substance into products.
      INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Shall include schools, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
      RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments and permanent multi-family dwellings.
      USER CLASS. The type of user, “residential,” “institutional/
governmental,” “commercial,” or “industrial,” as defined in this section.
   H.   Wastewater And Its Characteristics.
      BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
      FLOATABLE OIL. An oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it
will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved
pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE OIL
if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the
collection system.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
food.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
         a.   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average workday;
         b.   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
         c.   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
in standards issued under the federal act § 307(a); or
         d.   Is found by the permit issuing authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
      MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
      PPM. Parts per million by weight.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA division
of laboratories’ “Manual of Laboratory Methods.”
      POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial
or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 200
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.122 pounds of BOD and 0.211 pounds of
suspended solids.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
      SEWAGE. Is used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by
a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA division of
laboratories’ “Manual of Laboratory Methods.”
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of
course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any ground water, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
      WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Are defined in the water pollution regulations
of the state.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
§ 8-3-3 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes. It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner, on
public or private property within the village or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the village, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-5)
   B.   Discharges Into Natural Outlets. It shall be unlawful to discharge to
any natural outlet within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the village, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-6)
   C.   Private Systems. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (1987 Code, § 38-5-7)
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required. The owner of each house, building
or property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes
situated within the village and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way
in which there is now located or may in the future be located any public
sanitary (or combined) sewer of the village, is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so; provided, that said public sewer is within 1,000 feet of the property line.
(Amd. 2008 Code) (Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 8-3-4 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   A.   Private Systems Permitted. Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available under the provisions of §
8-3-3 D, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-10)
   B.   Permit Requirements.
      1.   Permit Required. Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the approving authority.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-11)
      2.   Application For Permit; Fee. The application for such permit shall
be made on a form furnished by the village, which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as deemed
necessary by the approving authority. A permit and inspection fee of $400 shall
be paid to the village at the time the application is filed.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-11) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Construction Specifications; Lot Area. The type, capacities, location
and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, being 225 ILCS
225/1 et seq., and with the state environmental protection agency. No permit
shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface
soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 30,000 square
feet.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-13)
   D.   Inspection Of Construction. A permit for a private sewage disposal
system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the approving authority. He or she shall be allowed to inspect
the work at any stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the approving authority when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 72 hours of the receipt of written notice by the approving
authority.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-12)
   E.   Operation And Maintenance. The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-15)
   F.   Availability Of Public Sewers; Connection Required.
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
serviced by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
8-3-3D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
materials.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-14)
      2.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days, and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean, bank run gravel or dirt.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-17) (Amd. 2008 Code)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
§ 8-3-5 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   A.   Permit To Connect.
      1.   Permit Required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereto without first obtaining a written permit from the
approving authority.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-20)
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications. There shall be two classes of
building sewer permits for residential wastewater service; and for commercial,
institutional/governmental or industrial wastewater service. In either case,
the owner, and the tenant in the case of residential rental property, shall
make application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the approving authority.
      3.   Permit And Inspection And Connection Fee. A permit and inspection
and connection fee of $250 for a residential or commercial, institutional/
governmental or industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the village
at the time the application is filed. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-22) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      4.   Permit Subject To System Capacity. A building sewer permit will only
be issued and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be
demonstrated that the downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump
stations and wastewater treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity
to adequately and efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-24)
   B.   Deposit For Rental Property.
      1.   In the case of rental property, a total deposit of $100 shall be
paid. This sum shall be retained by the village to ensure payment of any
delinquent bills. When sewerage service to the applicant is discontinued, this
deposit, minus any amount remaining due the village for sewer service, shall be
refunded to the applicant without interest. No such deposit shall be required
of any applicant who is the owner of the premises to be served by the village
water supply. For purposes hereof, a contract for deed purchaser shall be
deemed a renter and not an owner of the premises to be served by the sewer
service.
      2.   The village reserves the right, at any time, to increase the amount
of the required deposit in the case of a renter and to impose a deposit in the
case of an owner in any amount the village deems appropriate as a condition for
initial sewer service or for further sewer service where such renter or owner
is delinquent in his utility bill(s) or has previously been delinquent in
payment of his or her utility bill(s) to the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-23)
   C.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-26)
   D.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, upon examination and test by the
approving authority, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-27)
   E.   Installation Of Sewer Line; Indemnification. Regarding the installation
of the sewer line to any premises to be serviced (except as may be otherwise
provided by annexation ordinance 594), the village shall make all installations
between the village sewer main and five feet beyond the property line;
provided, however, the village may, at the owner’s request, install such sewer
line from the owner’s property line to within ten feet of the premises to be
serviced; and provided further, in any event, the owner(s) of such premises
shall pay for all materials and shall further pay the village for such
installation at the then prevailing hourly rate as set forth in §
2-1-3 . Such owner(s) shall indemnify and hold harmless the village from any
and all losses or damages which may be occasioned, directly or indirectly, by
the installation and/or connection of such sewer line.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-25) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   F.   Design; Construction Specifications.
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Illinois Plumbing Code, being found in 77 Ill. Admin Code 890, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village.
      2.   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and standard specifications for water and sewer main
construction in the state, shall apply.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-28)
      3.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation three feet below the ground level at the building. In
all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to
the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be
lifted by a means which is approved in accordance with subsection H.1. below
and discharged to the building sewer.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-29) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   G.   Connection To Public Sewer. The connection of the building sewer to the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
code, or other applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the
procedures set forth in the applicable rules and regulations and the
specifications of the state plumbing code. All such connections shall be made
gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the approving authority before installation.
   H.   Discharges Into Sewer.
      1.   All disposal into the sewer system by any person is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-21)
      2.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-30)
   I.   Inspections. The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the approving authority when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the approving authority or his or her representative.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-32)
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 8-3-6 STORM SEWERS.
   A.   Description. Stormwater sewers shall be any pipe or sewer used for the
carrying of surface drains, ground waters, or roof leaders, or stormwaters,
rainwaters, or other waters other than sanitary sewage.
   B.   Supervision. The general superintendent shall supervise all connections
made to the public storm sewer system or excavations for the purpose of
installing or repairing the same.
   C.   Permit To Connect. Before any connection is made to the public
stormwater sewers, a permit shall be applied for and approved by the
superintendent or his or her designated representative.
   D.   Use Requirements. Where a stormwater sewer is accessible in a street,
alley or easement to a building or premises abutting thereon, the surface
drains, ground waters, roof leaders or stormwaters shall be charged into the
stormwater sewer unless otherwise authorized by the village. Under no
conditions shall sanitary sewage or wastes, or any substance other than surface
waters, ground waters, roof waters or stormwaters, be permitted to flow into or
be connected to the stormwater sewer; and no sanitary sewer shall be connect to
the stormwater sewer system.
(1987 Code, § 33-5-2)
§ 8-3-7 DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM.
   A.   Storm And Surface Water Runoff; Storm And Combined Sewers.
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-38)
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the approving authority. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the approving
authority to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-40)
   C.   Restricted Discharges.
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the approving authority, that such wastes can harm either the sewage
treatment process or equipment of the sewers; have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb or public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the approving authority will give consideration to such factors
as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits established
by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°
and 65°C);
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the approving authority;
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not;
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the approving authority for such materials;
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the approving authority as necessary after treatment of the
composite sewage to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the approving authority in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         h.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5;
         i.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as
Hg at any time, except as permitted by the approving authority in compliance
with applicable state and federal regulations;
         j.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time, except as
permitted by the approving authority in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations;
         k.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
            (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting SLUGS as defined in § 8-3-1.
         l.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-41)
      2.   a.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C.1. above, and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 C.F.R. part 403,
June 26, 1978, and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the
approving authority, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the approving authority may:
            (1)   Reject the wastes;
            (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge;
            (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
and/or
            (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions of §
8-3-12.
         b.   If the approving authority permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the approving
authority, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances
and laws.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-42)
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 8-3-8 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the approving authority, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the approving authority, and shall be located so
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-43)
§ 8-3-9 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZATION.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-44)
§ 8-3-10 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when
required by the approving authority, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the approving
authority. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense,
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-45)
§ 8-3-11 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   A.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   B.   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village; but no less than once per
year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-46)
   C.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA division of laboratories’ “Manual of
Laboratory Methods,” and shall be determined at the control manhole provided,
or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analysis involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-47)
§ 8-3-12 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial
concern, whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with this chapter, by the industrial concern, provided such payments
are in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-48)
§ 8-3-13 BLOCKAGE, OBSTRUCTIONS AND OTHER PROBLEMS.
   A.   Televising Sewers.
      1.   Request Required. Any person(s) who desire(s) the village to arrange
for the underground televising of any sanitary sewer or combined sewer or
building sewer to determine the source of any problem or obstruction or
blockage within such sanitary sewer or combined sewer or building sewer that
may be the cause, in whole or in part, to any sewer problems on such person’s
or persons’ private property shall submit a written request to the village for
said televising work on a form as may be approved by the village board of
trustees from time to time.
      2.   Estimated Cost. If the village board of trustees, in its sole
discretion, approves such request, then the village president or his or her
designee shall inform such person(s) of the estimated cost for such televising
work (including, but not limited to, the televising, labor of the televising
personnel and of the village labor, excavating, digging, machinery, motor
vehicles, materials and equipment costs).
      3.   Contract. If such person(s) desires the televising work to be
performed, then such person(s) shall sign a contract with the village, in a
form as may be approved by the village board of trustees from time to time.
Such contract shall provide, inter alia, that such person(s) shall pay such
estimated costs at the time of signing such contract, and such person(s)
further agree to pay any amount in excess of such estimated cost immediately
upon the written demand of the village if the actual televising work exceeds
such estimated cost; provided, however, if the village determines that the
source of the problem or obstruction or blockage is wholly within the village
sanitary sewer system or combined sewer system and not within such private
property’s sewer system and was not caused, in whole or in part, by any problem
or sewerage or blockage or obstruction originating from the building sewer
system located on private property, then the village shall pay for such
televising work and shall refund such estimated cost previously paid by such
person(s).
      4.   Building Sewer Is Source; Immediate Payment Required. If the village
determines that the source of the problem or obstruction or blockage is within
such private property’s building sewer system or was caused, in whole or in
part, by any problem or sewerage or blockage or obstruction originating from
the building sewer system located on such private property, then the owner(s)
and tenant(s) of such property, jointly and severally, shall pay the village,
immediately upon written demand of the village, an amount equal to the cost and
expense incurred by the village to repair and/or remedy any such problem or
sewerage or blockage or obstruction within the village sanitary sewer system or
combined sewer system or within the building sewer system on such private
property.
      5.   Supervision; Televising Work. During all such televising, the
general superintendent or his or her designee shall be present. The village
shall arrange for such televising work, and such televising work shall be
performed at a time or times as the general superintendent, in his or her sole
discretion, shall determine. Any contractor employed by the village to perform
any such televising work shall sign a contract, in a form as may be approved by
the village board of trustees from time to time, whereby such contractor
agrees, inter alia, to the payment terms set forth therein.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-84)
   B.   Excavations. If the village or its contractors perform any digging or
excavating work within any village easement or right-of-way on private property
incident to determining the source of or to perform the repair of or remedying
of any problem or sewerage or blockage or obstruction within the village
sanitary sewer system or combined sewer system, and the source of such problem
or sewerage or blockage or obstruction is determined by the general
superintendent or his or her designee to have originated from the building
sewer system located on such private property, then the owner(s) of such
private property and all tenants thereof, jointly and severally, shall pay the
village immediately, upon written demand by the village, an amount equal to all
costs and expenses incurred by the village for such digging or excavating or
repair or remedying work, including, but not limited to, all materials,
equipment, machinery and labor costs.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-85)
§ 8-3-14 DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in § 1-4-1 for each violation.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-50) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   
§ 8-3-15 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   A.   Entry Powers; Limitations On Requested Information.
      1.   The approving authority and other duly authorized employees of the
village and the state environmental protection agency, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The approving authority or his
or her representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other
industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-52)
      2.   The approving authority and other duly authorized employees of the
village, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-54)
   B.   Safety Precautions. While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in subsection A. above, the approving authority or duly
authorized employees of the village and the state environmental protection
agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees, and the village shall indemnify the company against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operations,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain conditions as required in §
8-3-11 .
(1987 Code, § 38-5-53)
§ 8-3-16 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the board of health of the
state and/or of the county.
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 8-3-17 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Time For Compliance. Any person found to be
violating any provision of this chapter, except §
8-3-14 , shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit. The village may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-56)
   C.   Misdemeanor Violation; Penalty. Any person who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided for in subsection A. above shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided
in §
1-4-1  for each violation. Each day on which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-57) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Liability For Violations. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the village by reason of such violation.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-58)
ARTICLE A: RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
8-3A-1   Basis For Wastewater Service Charge
   
8-3A-2   Measurement Of Flow
   
8-3A-3   Rates Established; Exemptions
   
8-3A-4   Computation Of Rates
   
8-3A-5   Monthly Payments; Liability For Charges
   
8-3A-6   Bills Rendered; Due Date; Late Payment Penalty
   
8-3A-7   Returned Check Fee
   
8-3A-8   Delinquent Payments; Shut Off Of Service
   
8-3A-9   Lien Provisions
   
8-3A-10   Revenues
   
8-3A-11   Accounting
   
8-3A-12   Access To Records
   
8-3A-13   Appeals
   
8-3A-14   Penalty
§ 8-3A-1 BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user charge for
operation, maintenance and equipment replacement; the debt service charge for
debt service cost and capital improvement costs; and a surcharge for wastes
that exceed those listed in subsection A.5. below.
   A.   Basic User Charge. The basic user charge shall be based on water usage
as recorded by water meters. It shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs, plus an estimated amount for equipment replacement. The basic user
charge shall be computed as follows:
      1.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated;
      2.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year
for all works categories;
      3.   Proportion the debt service, capital improvement and estimated
operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, suspended solids and BOD;
      4.   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength; and
      5.   Compute surcharge costs per pound in excess of normal sewage
strength for BOD and SS.
   B.   Debt Service Charge. The debt service charge is computed by
apportioning the annual debt service on a cost per 1,000 gallons’ basis.
   C.   Surcharge. A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed
the normal domestic concentrations of BOD (350 mg/l) and SS (350 mg/l). The
surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters for all
wastes which exceed the 350 mg/l and 350 mg/l concentrations for BOD and SS,
respectively. Section
8-3A-4 B specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.
   D.   Adequacy Of Charge. The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall
be reviewed, not less often than annually, by certified public accountants for
the village in their annual report. The wastewater service charges shall be
revised periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or a change in
operation and maintenance costs, including replacement costs.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-60)
§ 8-3A-2 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   A.   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increment of 100
gallons.
   B.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the approving authority for the purpose of determining the volume
of water obtained from these sources.
   C.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by
the approving authority if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
the metered water consumption records.
   D.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed without the consent of the
approving authority, unless service is canceled.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-61)
§ 8-3A-3 RATES ESTABLISHED; EXEMPTIONS.
   A.   Minimum Charge; Basic User Rate. There are hereby established minimum
charges and basic user rates for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the village to premises located within and outside the
corporate limits of the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-62)
      1.   Inside Village Limits. As to premises serviced within the corporate
limits of the village, a minimum charge of $28 per month shall be applied to
all such users whose water consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons per month,
and a basic user rate of $7 per 1,000 gallons shall be applied to all such
users for water consumption in excess of 2,000 gallons per month.
      2.   Outside Village Limits. As to premises serviced outside the
corporate limits, a minimum charge of $28 per month shall be applied to all
such users where water consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons per month, and
a charge of $7 per 1,000 gallons shall be applied to all such users for water
consumption that exceeds 2,000 gallons per month.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-62) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Exceptions To Monthly Minimum Charge.
      1.   Notwithstanding subsection A. above, there shall be no minimum
monthly charge for sewer service to the following premises:
         a.   During construction of new residential homes, commercial or
industrial building or structures; or
         b.   For such newly constructed residences, buildings or structures,
after completion of construction until such homes, buildings or structures are
initially used or occupied after completion of construction.
      2.   During such time the monthly minimum charge is not being assessed,
the following basic user rates, in addition to any surcharge rate under
subsection C. below, shall apply:
(1987 Code, § 38-5-62.5)
         a.   Inside Village Limits. As to premises being serviced within the
corporate limits of the village, a basic user rate of $7 per 1,000 gallons, or
part thereof, of water provided per month shall be applied to all such users
for sewer consumption; and
         b.   Outside Village Limits. As to premises being serviced outside the
corporate limits of the village, a basic user rate of $7 per 1,000 gallons, or
part thereof, of water provided per month shall be applied to all such users
for sewer consumption.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-62.5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Surcharge Rate. The rates or surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as
follows:
 
Per pound of BOD $0.30
Per pound of SS  $0.30
 
(1987 Code, § 38-5-63)
   D.   Changes To Rates. The foregoing rates and charges may be changed by
ordinance, written or oral resolution or motion as the corporate authorities
may elect.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-66) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   E.   Effective Date Of Rates. The rates and service charges for user charges
in this section shall be effective November 1, 2007.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-82) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 8-3A-4 COMPUTATION OF RATES.
   A.   Wastewater Service Charge. The wastewater service charge shall be
computed by the following formula:
 
CW = CD + CM + (Vu-X) CU + CS
Notes To Table:
CW = Amount of waste service charge ($) per billing period
CD = Debt service charge
CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement (See §
8-3A-3 A)
Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period
X = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (See §
8-3A-3 A)
CU = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement (See §
8-3A-3 A)
CS = Amount of surcharge (See §
8-3A-3 C and subsection B. below)
 
(1987 Code, § 38-5-65)
   B.   Surcharge. The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges
shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as
often as may be deemed necessary by the village board and shall be binding as a
basis for surcharges. The surcharge amount shall be computed by the following
formula:
 
CD = Vu (EBOD + ESS) x .008345 x SR
Notes To Table:
Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period in 1,000 gallons.
EBOD = BOD concentration in excess of 350 mg/l (BOD = 350).
ESS = SS concentration in excess of 350 mg/l (SS = 350).
.008345 = Factor to convert mg/l to pounds per 1,000 gallons.
SR = Surcharge rate (See §
8-3A-3 C)
 
(1987 Code, § 38-5-64)
§ 8-3A-5 MONTHLY PAYMENTS; LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly by the owner of
the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service to such
premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, the occupant and the user of the
service are jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-70)
§ 8-3A-6 BILLS RENDERED; DUE DATE; LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   A.   Bills for sewer service shall be dated and mailed by the village
treasurer on the first village working day of the month succeeding the period
for which the service is billed. All sewer bills are due and payable on or
before the sixteenth day following the date of the bill.
   B.   Bills not fully paid within such time shall be considered delinquent. A
penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not fully paid by the sixteenth day
after the date of the bill. Sewer bills and penalties shall be paid at the
office of the village treasurer.
   C.   If the sixteenth day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday,
bills shall not be considered delinquent until midnight the next working day.
   D.   Postmarks and dates written on checks shall not constitute proof of
payment to avoid penalty.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-70)
§ 8-3A-7 RETURNED CHECK FEE.
   If any check is returned to the village for insufficient funds, a 10%
penalty, plus an insufficient funds charge, shall be assessed against such
customer and further checks shall not be accepted from such customer for sewer
service without the consent of the mayor and village board of trustees.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-70) (Amd. 2008 Code)
Cross-reference:
   Bad Checks Policy, see §
8-1-3 E.
§ 8-3A-8 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; SHUT OFF OF SERVICE.
   If the charges for sewer services are not paid within 30 days after the date
of the bill for such sewer services, the sewer services to the delinquent sewer
customer’s premises shall be shut off and discontinued without further notice
to the utility customer.
(Ord. 702, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 8-3A-9 LIEN PROVISIONS.
   A.   Lien Claim And Notice. Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid
for 60 days after it has been rendered, the village treasurer shall file with
the county recorder of deeds a sworn statement of lien claim. This sworn
statement shall contain a description of the premises served, sufficient for
the identification thereof, the amount of the unpaid sewer bill, when such
amount became delinquent, and a notice that the village claims a lien for this
amount as well as for all sewer charges subsequent to the period covered by the
bill. If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the
village treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of
the premises, if his or her address is known to the treasurer, whenever such
bill remains unpaid for 45 days for a monthly bill after it has been rendered.
The failure of the village treasurer to record such lien or to mail the notice,
or the failure of the owner to receive the notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned herein.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-72)
   B.   Foreclosure Of Lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be filed in the name of
the village. The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings in the name of the village in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-74)
   C.   Attorney Fees And Court Costs. In the event any delinquent sewerage
bill is turned over to the village attorney for purposes of collection or
foreclosure of lien, the debtor or debtors shall, jointly and severally, pay
all reasonable attorney fees and any court costs incurred by the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-76)
 
§ 8-3A-10 REVENUES.
   A.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage fund. All such revenues and monies
shall be held by the village treasurer separate and apart from his or her
private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the village, and
all of the sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the
village treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the same, or at such
more frequent intervals as may, from time to time, be directed by the mayor and
village board of trustees.
   B.   The village treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of the system
as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the account
of the fund designated as the sewerage fund of the village. The treasurer shall
administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by state statutes.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-75)
§ 8-3A-11 ACCOUNTING.
   A.   System Of Accounts. The village treasurer shall establish a proper
system of accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be
made an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the
receipts and disbursements of the sewerage system.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-77)
   B.   Annual Audit Report. In addition to the customary operating statements,
the annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses
of the wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that
sewer service charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts
required to be recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do, in fact,
meet these regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown
in the audit report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year;
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year;
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      4.   Number of users connected to the system;
      5.   Number of nonmetered users; and
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-78)
§ 8-3A-12 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The state environmental protection agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the village
which are applicable to the village system of user charges or industrial cost
recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and
general conditions to any state grant.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-81)
§ 8-3A-13 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in this article shall be made available to a user within 35 days of
receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or
in the computations thereof shall be remedied by the village within 35 days
after notification of a formal written appeal.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-83)
§ 8-3A-14 PENALTY.
   Any owner, occupant or user violating or failing to comply with any
provisions of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided
in §
1-4-1 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation or failure occurs or continues.
(1987 Code, § 38-5-80) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 4: WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
8-4-1   Administration Of System
   
8-4-2   Installation Of Lines; Connection To System
   
8-4-3   Application For, Turning On Service
   
8-4-4   Meters
   
8-4-5   Rates And Charges
   
8-4-5-1   Rates And Charges Established
   
8-4-5-2   Monthly Payments; Liability For Charges
   
8-4-5-3   Bills Rendered; Due Date; Late Payment Penalty
   
8-4-5-4   Returned Check Fee
   
8-4-5-5   Delinquent Payments; Shut Off Of Service
   
8-4-5-6   Lien Provisions
   
8-4-5-7   Revenues
   
8-4-6   Subdivision Fees
   
8-4-7   Hydrants
   
8-4-8   Resale Or Distribution Of Water
   
8-4-9   Damage To, Tampering With System
   
8-4-10   Dangerous Conditions
   
8-4-11   Water Conservation Measures
   
8-4-12   Nonliability Of Village
   
8-4-13   Penalty
§ 8-4-1 ADMINISTRATION OF SYSTEM.
   A.   Water Department Established; Composition. There shall be an executive
department of the village known as the water department. It shall include the
committee on water, appointed by the mayor, and its employees. The designated
office shall be the village hall.
(1987 Code, § 38-1-20)
   B.   Committee On Water. The committee on water shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the waterworks system. They shall ascertain the
condition and needs thereof; shall, from time to time, report the same to the
mayor and village board so that a full understanding thereof shall be had; and
generally shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the water
department.
(1987 Code, § 38-1-21)
   C.   Duties Of General Superintendent. The duties of the general
superintendent of the village shall be as follows:
      1.   He or she shall, subject to the direction of the village board, have
the general direction and control of the water department, and shall see that
the object and purpose thereof are carried out, and that the waterworks system
is conducted on an economical, businesslike basis;
      2.   He or she shall inspect all connections to the waterworks system at
the time they are made and report to the treasurer the date when the water is
turned on;
      3.   He or she shall shut off the water supply of any delinquent user or
violator of the provisions of this title;
      4.   He or she shall determine the size of each connection to be made;
      5.   He or she shall supervise the setting, taking off and repairing of
all water meters;
      6.   He or she shall make all repairs occasioned by leaks or breaks in
the mains of the waterworks system, and shall shut off the water from all
premises where leaks are permitted to go unrepaired; and
      7.   He or she shall examine and test, at least annually, all fire
hydrants and street valves, and if they are found to be in an unsatisfactory
condition, he or she is to repair the same.
(1987 Code, § 38-1-23)
   D.   Duties Of Village Treasurer. The village treasurer shall issue permits
for connections to the waterworks system whenever an application for the same
has been made as provided herein.
(1987 Code,   § 38-1-23) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 8-4-2 INSTALLATION OF LINES; CONNECTION TO SYSTEM.
   A.   Installation Requirements. Regarding the installation of the water line
to any premises (except as may be otherwise provided by annexation ordinance
594), the village shall make all installations between the village water main
and five feet beyond the property line; provided, however, the village may, at
the owner’s request, install such water line from the owner’s property line to
within ten feet of the premises to be serviced; and provided further, in any
event, the owner(s) of such premises shall pay for all materials and shall
further pay the village for any such installation at the then prevailing hourly
rate as set forth in §
2-1-3 .
(Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Connection To System.
      1.   Permit And Notice Required. No connections with any village water
main shall be made without a permit being issued by the village and 24 hours’
notice having been given to the general superintendent.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-1)
      2.   Application And Fee. Applications for such connection shall be made
to the village treasurer, and a fee of $200, plus meter and materials, shall be
paid for each connection permit. The forms of application shall be as
determined from time to time by the mayor and village board of trustees.
      3.   Indemnification. The owner(s) shall indemnify and hold harmless the
village from any and all losses or damages which may be occasioned, directly or
indirectly, by the installation and/or connection of such water line.
      4.   Specifications.
         a.   Before any new connection is made to the water distribution
system of the village, the premises to be served must be equipped with a meter
and buffalo box or meter vault properly installed on the service pipe.
         b.   For service installation, type K copper or any approved
equivalent service pipe shall be installed from the corporation stop to the
meter; and where an outside meter vault is used, type K copper shall be
installed five feet beyond the meter vault.
         c.   All services shall be installed with a minimum ground cover of 48
inches.
         d.   Solder joints shall not be used where the pipe will be
underground.
         e.   No premises shall be connected with the village water
distribution system unless the premises has a shutoff valve. When the village
must shut off the water supply at the meter in order that the owner may make
emergency repairs, the water supply shall not be turned back on until the owner
has installed a shutoff valve and the general superintendent has inspected said
shutoff valve.
         f.   From and after January 10, 2000, all future new or replacement
water extension and/or service lines from the water main to the water meter(s)
and from the water meter(s) to the property to be serviced with water shall be
of such size as is required by the Illinois Plumbing Code.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-29)
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 8-4-3 APPLICATION FOR, TURNING ON SERVICE.
   A.   Application For Service.
      1.   Generally. Application to have water from the village water supply
turned on for service into any premises shall be made in writing to the village
treasurer. The forms of application shall be as determined from time to time by
the mayor and board of trustees. Such application shall contain an agreement by
the applicant(s) to accept and abide by all the provisions of this chapter and
all applicable codes, rules and regulations of the village as now or hereafter
enacted or amended.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-4)
      2.   Rental Property; Deposit Required.
         a.   In the case of rental property, a deposit of $100 shall be paid.
This sum shall be retained by the village to ensure payment of all bills and
may be applied by the village toward payment of any delinquent bill(s). No such
deposit shall be required of any applicant who is the owner of the premises to
be served by the village water supply. For purposes hereof, a contract for deed
purchaser shall be deemed a renter and not an owner of the premises to be
served by the water supply or service.
         b.   When water service to the applicant is discontinued, this
deposit, minus any amount remaining due the village for water service, shall be
refunded to the applicant without interest.
         c.   The village reserves the right, at any time, to increase the
amount of the required deposit in the case of a renter and to impose a deposit
in the case of any owner in any amount the village deems appropriate as a
condition for initial water supply or service or for further water supply or
service where such renter or owner is delinquent in his or her utility bill(s)
or has previously been delinquent in payment of his or her utility bill(s) to
the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-5)
   B.   Compliance With Plumbing Requirements.
      1.   No water service from the village water supply shall be turned on
for service in any premises in which the plumbing does not comply with this
chapter and other ordinances of the village; provided, however, water may be
turned on for service for the purpose of construction work in any unfinished
building subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-6)
      2.   All fixtures and methods of installation in any premises to be
serviced and which are constructed or improved hereafter or in any premises to
be serviced where plumbing fixtures are replaced shall comply with the
requirements of the Illinois Plumbing Code.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-7)
   C.   Unauthorized Work Prohibited. No water from the village water supply
shall be turned on for service in any premises by any person but the general
superintendent or some person authorized by him or her to perform this duty.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-8)
§ 8-4-4 METERS.
   A.   Metered Water Required.
      1.   No premises shall be occupied and no water from the village water
supply shall be turned on for service until and unless a water meter is
installed as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
      2.   All premises using the village water supply must be equipped with an
adequate water meter approved and furnished by the village but paid for by the
owner of the premises prior to installation.
   B.   Location.
      1.   Such water meter shall be installed in a location which shall be of
easy access and shall remain the property of the village.
      2.   In the event the village corporate authorities, by majority vote,
determine it is necessary to hereafter move the location of any water meter by
reason of such water meter, pipe or other part of the village water system
being located, in whole or in part, under any building, structure, driveway,
patio or other improvements of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever, or by
reason of violation of any other village ordinances, or in the event the owner
(s) of the premises where such water meter is located requests the relocation
of any such water meter for his or her convenience, then, in either event, the
owner(s) of the premises where the water meter is located shall immediately pay
the village for the actual cost of the water meter if another one is installed,
and for all materials, parts and pipes used in such relocation, and for all
labor and machinery costs to relocate such water meter; and the village shall
actually perform the work to relocate such water meter.
      3.   If the owner(s) desires to relocate the water meter for convenience
purposes, then such owner(s) must first submit a signed application to the
village requesting such relocation, which application shall be on a form
approved by the village board of trustees from time to time. The president and
village board of trustees, by majority vote, shall determine whether to grant
such request.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-9)
   C.   Reading Meters. The general superintendent shall read or cause to be
read every water meter at such times as are necessary in order that the bill
for water service may be mailed at the proper time. (1987 Code, § 38-4-11)
   D.   Testing Meters. Upon complaint of the party using the water from the
village water supply and payment of a fee of $20, the village shall remove and
test the water meter. If after testing, the water meter is not within 3% of
being accurate, the water meter shall be repaired or replaced by the village,
and the $20 fee shall be returned to the complaining party.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-12)
§ 8-4-5 RATES AND CHARGES.
§ 8-4-5-1 RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   A.   The water service charge for the use of and for water service supplied
by the village’s waterworks facilities system to premises located within and
outside the corporate limits of the village shall consist of a minimum charge,
a basic usage charge, a debt service charge and a capital improvement charge.
The water service charge shall not apply to bulk tank purchasers, who shall be
charged a bulk tank water purchase charge as hereinafter set forth.
   B.   The minimum service charge and the basic usage charge is levied on all
users to recover the operation, maintenance, plus replacement (OM&R) costs and
shall be based on water usage as recorded by water meters. The basic usage
charge shall be computed as follows:
      1.   Estimate the annual volume;
      2.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the waterworks facilities system, including a replacement fund for the
municipal year, for all works categories;
      3.   Subtract the minimum service charge; and
      4.   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons, in excess of 2,000 gallons;
   C.   The debt service charge is levied on all users to repay any debt
service for the village’s waterworks facilities system from time to time. The
debt service charge is computed as necessary by apportioning any annual debt
service as a fixed charge per user account each month. The debt service charge
shall be set aside in a separate village waterworks account and dedicated,
pledged and used solely to pay any outstanding debt or to satisfy any loan
repayment agreement with the IEPA public water supply revolving loan program
attributable to the village’s waterworks facilities system. During the time
that such loan repayment agreement remains in effect, the village shall submit
to the state environmental protection agency upon request a statement on the
status of the debt service charge account, including the projected revenues,
actual revenues fund balance, debt service obligations and other requirements
of the loan repayment agreement with the IEPA public water supply revolving
loan program. To the extent necessary, the IEPA shall have reasonable access at
the village office during reasonable business office hours to view the
village’s records regarding its waterworks facilities system.
   D.   The capital improvement charge is levied on all users to provide funds
towards the costs of capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of the
village’s waterworks facilities system from time to time. The capital
improvement charge is computed by apportioning the annual amount to be accrued
as a fixed charge per user account per month.
   E.   The adequacy of the foregoing water service charges shall be reviewed
annually by the certified public accountant(s) that prepare the village’s
annual audit report. The foregoing water service charges shall be revised
periodically to reflect any substantial change in the anticipated capital
improvement costs or in the OM&R costs.
   F.   The volume of flow of water used for computing the minimum service
charge and the basic usage charge shall be the metered water consumption read
to the lowest even increments of gallons.
   G.   There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum service charge
for all users of water service up to and including 2,000 gallons per month.
      1.   For premises serviced within village corporate limits: $43 per
month.
      2.   For premises serviced outside village corporate limits: $53 per
month.
      3.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the aforesaid minimum service charge
shall not apply in the following instances:
         a.   During construction of new residential homes, commercial or
industrial buildings or structures;
         b.   For newly constructed residential homes, commercial or industrial
buildings or structures after completion of construction until such homes,
buildings or structures are initially used or occupied after completion of
construction; and
         c.   During said time periods and instances the minimum service charge
for such users of water service up to and including 2,000 gallons per month
shall be as follows:
            (1)   For premises serviced within village corporate limits: $7 per
1,000 gallons, or part thereof; and
            (2)   For premises services outside village corporate limits: $11
per 1,000 gallons, or part thereof.
   H.   There shall be and there is hereby established a basic usage charge for
usage in excess of 2,000 gallons per month to be charged at the following rates
per 1,000 gallons:
      1.   For premises serviced within village corporate limits: $10 per 1,000
gallons, or part thereof; and
      2.   For premises services outside village corporate limits: $11 per
1,000 gallons, or part thereof.
   I.   There shall be and there is hereby established a debt service charge of
$10.50 per month to each user account.
   J.   There shall be and there is hereby established a capital improvement
charge of $0.00 per month to each user account.
   K.   The water service charge for each user account each month shall be
computed by the following formula:
 
CW = CC + CD + CM + ((Vu - 2,000 gallons)*CU)
Notes To Table:
CW = Dollar amount of water service charge per billing period
CC = Capital improvement charge (subsection J. above)
CD = Debt service charge (subsection I. above)
CM = Minimum service charge (subsection G. above)
Vu = Water volume per the billing period.
CU = Basic usage charge for operation, maintenance & replacement (subsection H.
above)
 
   L.   1.   For bulk tank purchasers, the charge shall be $1.25 per 100
gallons or portion thereof. Such water shall be dispensed pursuant to a coin
machine or a token machine, as the village board of trustees may determine from
time to time.
      2.   Bulk tank water purchasers or his, her or their principals, agents,
employees, successors or assigns, shall not resell or distribute such purchased
waster for less than the village’s water service charge (as computed under the
preceding subsection K. above) for water service to premises located within or
outside the village’s corporate limits, as the case may be.
      3.   The village reserves the right, from time to time, to restrict or
terminate entirely the sale of water to bulk tank water purchasers. Such
restriction or termination may be for any reason or cause whatsoever as may be
solely determined by the majority vote of the village president and board of
trustees, from time to time. Any bulk tank water purchaser who purchases water
form the village thereby submits such purchaser and his, her or their
principals, agents, employees, successors, and assigns to the jurisdiction of
the village; and each such person, firm or entity does thereby agree to and
shall comply with all applicable village’s ordinances, resolutions, rules and
regulations pertaining to water. All bulk tank water purchasers and his, her or
their principals, agents, employees, successors, and assigns shall further
comply with all cross-connection requirements as may be determined by the
village general superintendent at the time of the purchase and receipt of such
water from the village.
   M.   Any one or more or all of the water service charges, including, but not
limited to, the minimum charge, the basic usage charge, the debt service
charge, and the capital improvement charge, and the bulk water tank purchaser
charge may be amended, modified or revised from time to time by the village
president and board of trustees by ordinance, written or oral resolution or
motion as such corporate authorities may determine and adopt by at least an
affirmative majority vote from time to time.
   N.   The method of computation of water service charges established for
water service charges as set forth in this section shall be made available to a
user within 35 days of receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement
over the method used or in the computations thereof for and as applicable to
that user shall be resolved and determined by the village board of trustees
within 35 days after notification of a formal written appeal is received by the
village treasurer.
(Ord. 765, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. 852, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 8-4-5-2 MONTHLY PAYMENTS; LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly. The owner of the
premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the service shall be jointly
and severally liable to pay for the service to such premises, and the service
is furnished to the owner of the premises by the village only upon the
condition that the owner of the premises, the occupant and user of the services
are jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-14)
§ 8-4-5-3 BILLS RENDERED; DUE DATE; LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   A.   Bills for water service shall be dated and mailed by the village
treasurer on the first working day of the month succeeding the period for which
the service is billed. All water bills are due and payable on or before the
sixteenth day following the date of the bill.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-14)
   B.   Bills not fully paid within such time shall be considered delinquent. A
penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not fully paid by the sixteenth day
after the date of the bill. Water bills and penalties shall be paid at the
office of the village treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-14) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   If the sixteenth day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday,
bills shall not be considered delinquent until 12:00 a.m. the next working day.
   D.   Postmarks and dates written on checks shall not constitute proof of
payment to avoid penalty. (1987 Code, § 38-4-14)
§ 8-4-5-4 RETURNED CHECK FEE.
   If any check is returned to the village for insufficient funds, a 10%
penalty, plus an insufficient funds charge, shall be assessed against the
customer for water service and further checks shall not be accepted from such
customer for water service without the consent of the mayor and board of
trustees.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-14) (Amd. 2008 Code)
Cross-reference:
   Bad Checks Policy, see §
8-1-3 E.
§ 8-4-5-5 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; SHUT OFF OF SERVICE.
   If the charges for water services are not paid within 30 days after the date
of the bill for such water services, the water services to the delinquent water
customer’s premises shall be shut off and discontinued without further notice
to the utility customer.
(Ord. 702, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 8-4-5-6 LIEN PROVISIONS.
   A.   Lien Claim And Notice. Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid
for 60 days after it has been rendered, the village treasurer shall file with
the county recorder of deeds a sworn statement of lien claim. This sworn
statement shall contain a description of the premises served, sufficient for
the identification thereof, the amount of the unpaid water bill, the date when
such amount became delinquent, and a notice that the village claims a lien for
this amount as well as for all water charges subsequent to the period covered
by the bill. If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the village treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises, if his or her address be known to the treasurer,
whenever such bill remains unpaid for 45 days for a monthly bill after it has
been rendered. The failure of the village treasurer to record such lien or to
mail the notice, or the failure of the owner to receive the notice shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned herein.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-16)
   B.   Foreclosure Of Lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as in the case in the
foreclosure statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be filed in the name of the
village. The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction
over such matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid
60 days after it has been rendered.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-17)
   C.   Attorney Fees And Court Costs. In the event any delinquent water bill
is turned over to the village attorney for purposes of collection or
foreclosure of lien, the debtor or debtors shall, jointly and severally, pay
all reasonable attorney fees and any court costs incurred by the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-14)
§ 8-4-5-7 REVENUES.
   A.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the water system
shall be deposited in the water fund. All such revenues and monies shall be
held by the village treasurer separate and apart from his or her private funds
and separate and apart from all other funds of the village, and all of said
sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the village
treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the same, or at such more
frequent intervals as may, from time to time, be directed by the mayor and
board of trustees.
   B.   The village treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the water
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of the system
as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the account
of the fund designated as the water fund of the village. The treasurer shall
administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by state statutes.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-18)
§ 8-4-6 SUBDIVISION FEES.
   When a subdivision is opened, the subdivider, prior to the installation of
any mains, shall pay the village the total amount of the estimated material
cost to install the mains. At the end of the project, the actual total material
cost shall be recalculated. In the event the village overestimated the material
costs, the subdivider shall be reimbursed; however, in the event the village
underestimated the material cost, the subdivider shall be billed for the
difference which shall become immediately due and payable. The village shall
furnish the necessary labor and equipment to install the mains.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-19)
§ 8-4-7 HYDRANTS.
   A.   Village Property; Use Restrictions. All hydrants shall be owned,
maintained and used only by the village except in a fire emergency situation,
in which case, the fire hydrant may be used by the village fire protection
district.
   B.   Nonliability Of Village. The village shall not be liable and will not
assume any responsibility for the condition of any fire hydrant inside or
outside the village limits, or the pressure or amount of water obtainable
therefrom, or any damages, either direct or resultant because of the condition,
pressure or amount of water available from any fire hydrant.
   C.   Hydrants Outside Village. All public fire hydrants outside of any
village limits owned by the village will be maintained in as good order as
reasonably possible, but the village will not undertake or assume any
responsibility or liability for their condition, use or abuse. Such public fire
hydrants shall be used only for the purpose of extinguishing fire.
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 8-4-8 RESALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF WATER.
   Except in case of emergency, no water shall be resold or distributed by the
recipient of the village water supply to any premises other than that for which
application has been made and the meter installed.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-20)
§ 8-4-9 DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM.
   Unless authorized by the village to do so, it is unlawful for any person,
firm, entity or corporation to maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with, alter, or injure, in whole or in
part, any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the village
waterworks or supply system or any water meter. Any person violating this
section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined and/or sentenced in accordance
with
title 1, chapter 4. In addition thereto, such person shall pay the village
costs and expenses (determined in accordance with §
2-1-3) for all materials and labor and/or use of village machinery or equipment
to repair any such breakage, damage, destruction, covering, defacement,
tampering, alteration or injury to such structure, appurtenance or equipment.
Further, any water service to the premises shall be terminated and not
reinstated until and unless all such costs and expenses are fully paid to the
village; provided, the person violating this section is an owner or occupant of
the premises in which such structure, appurtenance or equipment services were
damaged.
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
Cross-references:
   Damage To Utilities, see §
5-4-4-3
§ 8-4-10 DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   A.   Unsafe Usage. The village shall have the right to refuse water service
or to discontinue water service without notice at any time to any consumer if
the village finds any apparatus or appliances, the operation of which will be
detrimental to the water system of the village or to any or all of its
consumers. Standpipes, hydrants, gate valves and any other apparatus that cause
water damage or any danger to the water system or other customer’s plumbing
shall be immediately repaired or removed upon notice from the village, or at
its option, the village may immediately discontinue the service without notice
and without any liability for direct or resulting damages therefrom.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-23)
   B.   Electric Ground Wires. All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any
electric ground wire to any plumbing or water piping which is or may be
connected to any water service pipe, water meter or water main belonging to the
village. The village will hold the owner of the premises responsible and liable
for any damage to the property or injury to the employees of the village caused
by such ground wire. All owners and consumers shall remove any existing ground
wires immediately upon written notice from the village. If not so disconnected
after five days’ written notice, the village, through its officials, may enter
the property and remove such ground wires, and the consumer shall pay all
costs.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-24)
§ 8-4-11 WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   A.   The village president is hereby authorized to proclaim from time to
time the existence or continuance of a water supply emergency whenever it
appears to the village president that the village water supply is or may become
inadequate or precariously low for all general water uses and purposes. Each
such proclamation shall declare which water restriction phase, as set forth in
the following subsection B. below, shall then be in effect. Each such
proclamation shall be published in the “Taylorville Breeze-Courier” newspaper
or in any other newspaper of general circulation in the village.
   B.   Water usage shall be restricted and prohibited in the following three
phases, with the commencement and termination of each phase being determined by
the village president from time to time. The three phases are:
      1.   Phase 1. It shall be unlawful:
         a.   To use any water to maintain lawns, landscaping, plants, shrubs,
trees, vegetable gardens, flower gardens or athletic field grass on Saturday,
Sunday, Tuesday or Thursday, but use of water to maintain vegetation
inventories at commercial gardening, landscaping or plant nurseries shall be
exempt;
         b.    To purchase or obtain or withdraw any water from the village’s
bulk water facility, station or tank;
         c.   To use water to wash, clean or detail any motor vehicles of any
kind, except for public health and safety; but commercial vehicle washing,
cleaning or detailing facilities are exempt under phase 1;
         d.   It shall be unlawful to not repair any detectable water service
line leak within 72 hours of discovery. If such leak is not repaired within
this time frame, the village may shut off water service; and
         e.   To use any water to wash or clean streets, driveways, sidewalks,
parking lots and all other paved surfaces, except for public health and safety;
and construction sites are exempt under phase 1.
      2.   Phase 2. It shall be unlawful:
         a.   To use any water to maintain lawns, landscaping, plants, shrubs,
trees, vegetable gardens, flower gardens or athletic field grass, and use of
water to maintain vegetation inventories at commercial gardening, landscaping
or plant nurseries shall be exempt under phase 2; and except that the use of
water to maintain vegetable gardens used to produce food is allowed only if the
water is poured from a bucket that is five gallons in volume or less on
Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays;
         b.    To purchase or obtain or withdraw any water from the village’s
bulk water facility, station or tank;
         c.   To use water to wash or clean or detail any motor vehicles of any
kind, except for public health and safety; and commercial vehicle washing,
cleaning or detailing facilities are not exempt under phase 2;
         d.   It shall be unlawful to not repair any detectable water service
line leak within 72 hours of discovery. If such leak is not repaired within
this time frame, the village may shut off water service;
         e.   To use any water to wash or clean streets, driveways, sidewalks,
parking lots and all other paved surfaces, except for public health and safety;
and construction sites are exempt under phase 2;
         f.   To use any water to fill swimming pools, hot tubs or spas, or
ponds or water fountains, except topping off of swimming pools and hot tubs or
spas is allowed; and
         g.   To serve water at any restaurant or food serving facility unless
the customer requests it.
      3.   Phase 3. It shall be unlawful:
         a.   To use any water to maintain lawns, landscaping, plants, shrubs,
trees, vegetable gardens, flower gardens or athletic field grass, and use of
water to maintain vegetation inventories at commercial gardening, landscaping
or plant nurseries shall not be exempt under phase 3;
         b.   To purchase or obtain or withdraw any water from the village’s
bulk water facility, station or tank;
         c.   To use water to wash or clean or detail any motor vehicles of any
kind, except for public health and safety; and commercial vehicle washing,
cleaning or detailing facilities are not exempt under phase 3;
         d.   It shall be unlawful to not repair any detectable water service
line leak within 72 hours of discovery. If such leak is not repaired within
this time frame, the village may shut off water service;
         e.   To use any water to wash or clean streets, driveways, sidewalks,
parking lots and all other paved surfaces, except for public health and safety;
and construction sites are not exempt under phase 3;
         f.   To use any water to fill or top off swimming pools, hot tubs or
spas, or ponds or water fountains; and
         g.   To serve water at any restaurant or food serving facility unless
the customer requests it.
(Ord. 791, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 8-4-12 NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE.
   The village shall not be held responsible for or in any manner liable to any
person, company, consumer or public body for any claim or damage, either direct
or resultant, because of any shortage of water supply, any shutoff of water
supply for any reason, any bursting or leakage of either the consumer’s or
village’s mains, pipes and fixtures, any pollution or impurity in water supply,
or any fire or water damage.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-27)
§ 8-4-13 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined and/or sentenced in accordance with the applicable general penalty
provisions set forth in §
1-4-1.
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
ARTICLE A: MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM WELL SETBACK ZONES
Section
   
8-4A-1   Purpose And Scope
   
8-4A-2   Definitions
   
8-4A-3   Prohibitions
   
8-4A-4   Waivers, Exceptions And Certifications Of Minimal Hazard
   
8-4A-5   Penalty
§ 8-4A-1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by 65 ILCS 5/11-125-4, and in the
interest of securing the public health, safety and welfare, to preserve the
quality and quantity of ground water resources in order to assure a safe and
adequate water supply for present and future generations, and to preserve
ground water resources currently in use and those aquifers having a potential
for future use as a public water supply, the provisions of this article shall
apply to all properties located within the minimum setback zone established
under the Environmental Protection Act § 14.2 (“act”), being 415 ILCS 5/14.2,
and this article, and the maximum setback zone established under § 14.3 of the
Act, being 415 ILCS 5/14.3, and this article.
(1987 Code, § 43-1-1)
§ 8-4A-2 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as stated in this section, and unless a different meaning of a word
or term is clear from the context, the definitions of words or terms in this
article shall be the same as those used in the Act, as said term is defined in
this section, and the Illinois Ground Water Protection Act, being 415 ILCS 55/
1.
   ACT. The Environmental Protection Act, being 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
   AGENCY. The state environmental protection agency.
   BOARD. The state pollution control board.
   MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The area around the village water supply well
established under § 14.3 of the Act and this article.
   MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The area around the village water supply well
established under § 14.2 of the Act and this article.
(1987 Code, §43-1-2) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 8-4A-3 PROHIBITIONS.
   A.   1.   Except as provided in subsection A.2. below and §
8-4A-4, no person shall place a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source or new potential route within the minimum setback zone.
(1987 Code, § 43-1-3)
      2.   This subsection A. shall not apply to new common sources of sanitary
pollution as specified pursuant to Environmental Protection Act § 17, being 415
ILCS 5/17, and the regulations adopted thereunder by the agency; however, no
such common sources may be located within the applicable minimum distance from
the village water supply well specified by such regulations.
(1987 Code, § 43-1-5)
   B.   Except as provided otherwise in §
8-4A-4, no person shall place a new potential primary source within the maximum
setback zone.
(1987 Code, § 43-1-3)
§ 8-4A-4 WAIVERS, EXCEPTIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS OF MINIMAL HAZARD.
   A.   Waivers. If, pursuant to § 14.2(b) of the Act, the owner of a new
potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or a new potential
route is granted a waiver by the agency, such owner shall be deemed to have a
waiver to the same extent from §
8-4A-3 A.1.
   B.   Exceptions.
      1.   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act, the owner of a new potential
primary source (other than landfilling or land treating), new potential
secondary source, or new potential route is granted an exception by the board,
such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the same extent from §
8-4A-3A.1.
      2.   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act, the owner of a new potential
primary source (other than landfilling or land treating) is granted an
exception by the board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the
same extent from §
8-4A-3B.
   C.   Certificate Of Minimal Hazard. If, pursuant to § 14.5 of the Act, being
415 ILCS 15/14.5, the owner of a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source or new potential route is issued a certificate of minimal
hazard by the agency, such owner shall not be subject to §
8-4A-3 A.1. to the same extent that such owner is not subject to § 14.2(d) of
the Act.
(1987 Code, § 43-1-4)
§ 8-4A-5 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined as provided in §
1-4-1. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during on or
which a violation occurs or continues.
(1987 Code, § 43-1-6) (Amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE B: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
8-4B-1   Purpose
   
8-4B-2   Scope
   
8-4B-3   Definitions
   
8-4B-4   Water System Described
   
8-4B-5   Responsibility Of Owner
   
8-4B-6   Cross-Connections Restricted
   
8-4B-7   Surveys And Investigations
   
8-4B-8   Backflow Prevention
   
8-4B-9   Booster Pumps
   
8-4B-10   Violations; Penalties
§ 8-4B-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is:
   A.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the system;
   B.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
   C.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water system.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-39)
§ 8-4B-2 SCOPE.
   This article shall apply to all premises served by the public potable water
supply system of the village.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-40)
§ 8-4B-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. The state environmental protection agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be polluted
or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or system over
which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The backflow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other
than the intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the state plumbing
code and the state environmental protection agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check
valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word SEVERE, as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD, means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the state plumbing code
and 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890.
   NONPOTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use.
   PLUMBING.
      1.   The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person.
      2.   PLUMBING includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances
for a supply of water for all purposes, including, without limitation, lawn
sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water supply on the premises or
from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to, within and about any
building or buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble.
      3.   PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge of pumping units to and
including pressure tanks, in water supply systems.
      4.   PLUMBING includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances
for a building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of
any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from
the point of connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private
sewage disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Admin. Code 654
for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollution or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      1.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      2.   Process waters;
      3.   Used water originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      4.   Cooling waters;
      5.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams or irrigation systems;
      6.   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      7.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used
in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
community water supply or a noncommunity water supply.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves, together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow and
at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be
less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closed shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written from, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   UNUSED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply office custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-42) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 8-4B-4 WATER SYSTEM DESCRIBED.
   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the public
water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   A.   Public Water Supply System.
      1.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the general superintendent up
to the point where the consumer’s water system begins.
      2.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
      3.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s
water system.
   B.   Consumer’s Water System. The consumer’s water system shall include all
parts of the facilities beyond the service connection used to convey water from
the public water supply distribution system to points of use.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-43)
§ 8-4B-5 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   A.   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of
the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back
siphonage of contaminants through the customer’s water service connection.
   B.   If, in the judgment of the general superintendent or his or her
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the general superintendent
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises.
   C.   The consumer shall immediately install such approved device or devices
at his or her own expense. Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the
consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds
for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or devices
have been installed.
   D.   The consumer shall retain records required in §
8-4B-8B for a period of at least five years.
   E.   The general superintendent may require the consumer to submit a cross-
connection inspection report to the village to assist in determining whether or
not service line protection will be required. All cross-connection inspections
shall be conducted by a cross-connection control device inspector certified by
the state environmental protection agency.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-41)
§ 8-4B-6 CROSS-CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED.
   A.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the agency.
   C.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-44)
§ 8-4B-7 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   A.   Right To Inspect. The consumer’s premises shall be open at all
reasonable times to the approved cross-connection control device inspector for
the inspection of the presence or absence of cross-connections within the
consumer’s premises, and testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection
control devices within the consumer’s premises.
   B.   Information Required. On request of the general superintendent or his
or her authorized representative, the consumer shall furnish information
regarding the piping system or systems or water use within the customer’s
premises. The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
general superintendent for the verification of information submitted by the
consumer to the public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection
inspection results.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-45)
   C.   Surveys. It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to
arrange periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her
water system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his
or her public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other
plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3(1).
(1987 Code, § 38-4-45) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 8-4B-8 BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   A.   Responsibility Of Owner. It is the responsibility of the water consumer
to prevent backflow into the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   All cross-connections are removed or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage;
      2.   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions; and
      3.   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions.
   B.   Testing And Records.
      1.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at least
annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-45)
      2.   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4
(e).
(1987 Code, § 38-4-45) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      3.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
      4.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
         a.   Date of each test;
         b.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
         c.   Test results;
         d.   Repairs or servicing required;
         e.   Repairs and date completed; and
         f.   Service performed and date completed.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-45)
   C.   Where Protection Required.
      1.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77
Ill. Admin. Code 890, and the agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Admin. Code 680. In
addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where, in the
judgment of the general superintendent, actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply system exist.
      2.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
         a.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the general superintendent, and
the source is approved by the state environmental protection agency;
         b.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the general superintendent;
         c.   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment
of the general superintendent and/or the cross-connection control device
inspector, are not correctable or have intricate plumbing arrangements which
make it impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
         d.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
         e.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
      3.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77
Ill. Admin. Code 890, and the agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Admin. Code 653. In
addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited
to, the following types of facilities, unless the general superintendent
determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system
exists:
         a.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics and nursing homes;
         b.   Laboratories;
         c.   Piers, docks and waterfront facilities;
         d.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations;
         e.   Food or beverage processing plants;
         f.   Chemical plants;
         g.   Metal plating industries;
         h.   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
         i.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
         j.   Car washes;
         k.   Pesticide or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
         l.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-46)
   D.   Type Of Protection.
      1.   The type of protection required under subsection C. above shall
depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
         a.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard;
         b.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that
could cause a system or health hazard; and
         c.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
      2.   The type of protection required under subsection C. above shall be
an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device.
      3.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for
a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall
be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
         a.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or
other chemicals;
         b.   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
         c.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source;
         d.   Water can be pumped into the fire safety system from any other
source; or
         e.   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced
into the fire safety system.
      4.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on meter service lines and
a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-47)
   E.   Approved Backflow Prevention Devices.
      1.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by this article
shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of
the University of Southern California, American Water Works Association,
American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specifications.
      2.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with
the manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer
of the device shall be performed. The manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall
be available on site.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-48)
   F.   Inspection And Maintenance.
      1.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which
backflow prevention devices required by this article are installed to have
inspections, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in manufacturer’s instructions.
         a.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
         b.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested
annually thereafter, and required service performed within five days.
         c.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall
be tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently
if recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
      2.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
      3.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
      4.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
         a.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
         b.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
         c.   Test results;
         d.   Repairs or servicing required;
         e.   Repairs and date completed; and
         f.   Servicing performed and date completed.
      5.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this article are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer, without delay, as required by subsection F.1. above.
      6.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
general superintendent.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-49)
§ 8-4B-9 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the general
superintendent at least once a year that the device is operable.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-50)
§ 8-4B-10 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   A.   Denial Or Discontinuance Of Service. The general superintendent shall
deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the
water service to any premises wherein any backflow prevention device required
by this article is not installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner
acceptable to the general superintendent, or if it is found that the backflow
prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-
connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure cutoff required by this
article is not installed and maintained in working order.
   B.   Conditions Of Restoration Of Service.
      1.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with this article and to the satisfaction of the general superintendent, and
the required reconnection fee is paid.
      2.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated the conditions or defects in conformance
with this article and to the satisfaction of the general superintendent.
   C.   Nonliability Of Village. Neither the village, the general
superintendent, nor the assigns thereof shall be liable to any customers of the
village for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from
termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with the terms of this
article, whether or not the termination of the water supply was with or without
notice.
   D.   Contamination Costs To Consumer. The consumer responsible for back
siphoned material or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the
potable water supply system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an
improperly installed, maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been
bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   E.   Liability For Damages. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this article, in addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the
village for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the village by reason of
such violation, whether the same was caused before or after notice.
   F.   Notice Of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
this article shall be served with written notice stating the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violation.
(1987 Code, § 38-4-51)
   G.   Penalty. Any person convicted of a violation of any section or
provision of this article shall be fined and sentenced in accordance with the
applicable general penalty provisions set forth in §
1-4-1 .
(Ord. 698, passed 6-14-2004)
CHAPTER 5: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
8-5-1   Businesses
   
8-5-2   Recyclables At Roll-Off Box Sites
§ 8-5-1 BUSINESSES.
   A.   Receptacles.
      1.   Required. The occupant of every building, structure or premises used
or maintained in connection with any business or occupation shall provide and
maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient number of refuse containers
for the temporary storage of all refuse accumulating between collections.
      2.   Specifications. The standard refuse container required by this
section shall be a receptacle of not less than 20 gallons’ nor more than 32
gallons’ capacity, of impervious material and sturdy construction, with a
tightfitting cover, and equipped with handles properly placed to facilitate
handling; provided, however, dumpsters are permitted if emptied once each week.
   B.   Removal Of Refuse And Garbage.
      1.   It shall be the duty of the occupant of every building, structure or
premises used or maintained in connection with any business or occupation to
cause to be removed, at his or her own cost and expense, at least once each
week, all refuse produced therein.
      2.   Every person owning or controlling any hotel, restaurant, café or
retail food establishment where more than 32 gallons of refuse are normally
produced weekly shall cause all garbage to be placed in sanitary refuse
containers and shall cause all substances deposited in such containers to be
removed daily from his or her premises and to be disposed of at his or her own
expense; provided, garbage may be deposited in dumpsters rather than removed
daily from the premises, provided the dumpsters are emptied once each week.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 8-5-2 RECYCLABLES AT ROLL-OFF BOX SITES.
   A.   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ILLEGAL DUMP or ILLEGAL DUMPING. The replacement of any solid waste
(which is not an approved recyclable) in or around the site of the roll-off
container provided by the county for recycling activities or any recycling
container approved by the village.
      RECYCLABLE(S). Any of the following: PETE, HDPE, aluminum, bimetal cans,
tin/steel cans, newsprint, corrugated cardboard, clear glass and brown glass or
any other recyclable materials approved by the village.
      ROLL-OFF CONTAINER. The container provided by the county solid waste
management department for the collection of recyclables and the site upon which
it is placed in the village.
      SCAVENGE or SCAVENGING. To collect, obtain, possess or pick up any
recyclable item from within the roll-off container(s) or from the site of the
roll-off container(s).
      SOLID WASTE. All materials other than the “recyclables” defined in this
subsection.
(1987 Code, § 27-8-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Accepted Recyclables And Signs Posted. Recyclables which are accepted
for deposit shall be clearly marked on or near the roll-off container, and “no
dumping” signs shall also be posted.
(1987 Code, § 27-8-2)
   C.   Hours Of Operation. The hours of operation of roll-off box sites shall
be as determined by the village corporate authorities from time to time.
(1987 Code, § 27-8-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Prohibited Acts.
      1.   Scavenging. It shall be a violation for any person or persons to
scavenge any recyclable or recyclables from the roll-off containers or the site
of the roll-off containers.
      2.   Illegal Dumping. It shall be a violation for any person or persons
to illegally dump in the roll-off container or on the site of the roll-off
container.
(1987 Code, § 27-8-2)
   E.   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined as provided in §
1-4-1  for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(1987 Code, § 27-8-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
TITLE 9: BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
   Chapter
      
1.    BUILDING CODES
      
2.    DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE, UNCOMPLETED AND ABANDONED BUILDINGS
      
3.    MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
4.    SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
5.    FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING CODES
Section
   
9-1-1   Codes Adopted
   
9-1-2   Copies On File
   
9-1-3   Penalty
§ 9-1-1 CODES ADOPTED.
   The following current codes are hereby adopted by reference thereto and the
same shall be the rules and regulations governing the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, installation, demolition, equipment use, occupancy,
location and maintenance of buildings and structures of any kind, nature or
extent whatsoever and also governing the issuance of building permits and
certificates of occupancy:
   A.   International building code (IBC) including appendix G (flood resistant
construction), 2024 edition;
   B.   International existing building code (IEBC), 2024 edition;
   C.   International residential code (IRC), 2024 edition;
   D.   State energy conservation code (IECC), 2024 edition;
   E.   2018 state accessibility code;
   F.   State 2014 plumbing code;
   G.   Fire prevention and safety rules (includes NFPA 101);
   H.   International mechanical code (IMC), 2024 edition;
   I.   NFPA 101 life safety code (NFPA 101), 2024 edition;
   J.   International property maintenance code (IPMC), 2024 edition;
   K.   National electrical code (NEC), 2024 edition.
(Ord. 910, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 9-1-2 COPIES ON FILE.
   One copy of each of the aforesaid codes has been on file with the village
clerk’s office for a period of at least 30 days prior to the effective date of
this codified ordinance; and one copy of each of the aforesaid codes shall
remain on file in the village clerk’s office and shall be made available for
public use, inspection and examination.
(Ord. 910, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 9-1-3 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of any of the aforesaid code or
codes set forth in §
9-2-1 or who shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who
shall erect, construct, reconstruct, install, alter, add to, move, demolish,
use, occupy, locate or maintain any building or structure of any kind, nature
or extent whatsoever, or portion thereof, in violation of the any of the
aforesaid code or codes or in violation of a detailed statement or plan
submitted and approved thereunder, or of a permit or certificate issued
thereunder shall, upon conviction of each violation, be fined in an amount not
less than $250, nor more than $750 for each offense; and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed as to each violation for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any provision of the aforesaid code or codes is
committed or continues. For purposes hereof, the owner of a building or
structure, or portion thereof, or of the premises where anything in violation
of any of the aforesaid code or codes shall be placed or shall exist and an
architect, engineer, builder, contractor, agent, person, firm or corporation
employed or retained in connection therewith and who assisted in the commission
of such violation or violations shall also be deemed likewise guilty of such
offense or offenses.
(Ord. 910, passed 11-12-2024)
CHAPTER 2: DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE, UNCOMPLETED
AND ABANDONED BUILDINGS
Section
   
9-2-1   Definition
   
9-2-2   Nuisance Declared
   
9-2-3   Prohibition
   
9-2-4   Alternative Action
   
9-2-5   Enforcement And Injunction
§ 9-2-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDING.
      1.   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which is
dangerous and unsafe to the public health because of its construction or
condition, or which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury
to the health of the occupants thereof or of neighboring structures.
(1987 Code, § 6-1-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire, and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
      3.   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or other cause, is
liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any
part of such structure.
      4.   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available
to and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure.
(1987 Code, § 6-1-1)
      5.   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure containing
garbage, debris or other hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or
materials.
(2008 Code)
§ 9-2-2 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any dangerous and unsafe building or uncompleted and abandoned building
within the village is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1987 Code, § 6-1-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 9-2-3 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
and unsafe building or any uncompleted and abandoned building in the village,
and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person in custody of any
dangerous and unsafe building or any uncompleted and abandoned building to
permit the same to remain in a dangerous and unsafe condition or in an
uncompleted and abandoned condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to
be occupied while it is or remains in such condition.
(1987 Code, § 6-1-2) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 9-2-4 ALTERNATIVE ACTION.
   In addition to the actions authorized by other sections of this chapter, the
chief of the fire protection district, if any, or any other municipal official
whose duty it is to investigate fires, may make the investigation authorized by
425 ILCS 25/9, 25/9a, 25/9b and 25/9e. If such officer shall find that any
building or structure is so occupied or situated as to endanger persons or
property, or by reason of faulty construction, age, lack of repair, or for any
other cause, is especially liable to fire, or is liable to cause injury by
collapsing or otherwise, he or she shall order the dangerous condition removed
or remedied, and shall so notify the owner or occupant of the premises. Service
of such notice may be in person or by registered mail, and any person so
notified may appeal from the decision of such officer in the manner provided by
law.
(1987 Code, § 6-1-5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 9-2-5 ENFORCEMENT AND INJUNCTION.
   A.   65 ILCS 5/11-31-1, as passed, approved and amended by the state general
assembly, entitled “demolition, repair, enclosure or remediation,” shall
prevail in the enforcement of this chapter, and the village shall be entitled
to exercise powers, rights and liens, and to otherwise proceed under such
statute.
   B.   The village board may proceed under the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-
2, which authorizes an injunction to require compliance with building,
structure, fire, health and safety standards.
(1987 Code, § 6-1-9) (Amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3: MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
9-3-1   Definitions
   
9-3-2   State Regulations Adopted
   
9-3-3   Location Of Mobile Homes In Licensed Park
   
9-3-4   Occupancy Permit
   
9-3-5   Mobile Home Parks
   
9-3-5-1   Compliance With Provisions; Conflicts
   
9-3-5-2   Special Use Permit Required
   
9-3-5-3   Permit To Construct Or License To Operate
   
9-3-5-4   Occupancy Permit Required
   
9-3-5-5   Design And Construction Requirements
   
9-3-5-6   Structure Restrictions On Park Space
   
9-3-5-7   Travel Trailers And Recreational Vehicles Prohibited
   
9-3-6   Immobilized Mobile Homes Deemed Real Estate
§ 9-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath in writing, sworn before and attested by an individual
who has authority to administer an oath.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license or permit.
   IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME. A mobile home served by individual utilities,
resting on a permanent perimeter foundation which extends below the established
frost depth with the wheels, tongue and hitch removed and the home secured in
compliance with the Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et
seq.
   LICENSE. A license certificate issued by the village allowing a person to
operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter
and the rules and regulations issued hereunder.
   LICENSEE. Any person having a license or permit under this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location or
subsequent locations at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. A MOBILE HOME should not be confused with a camping trailer or
recreational vehicle. The term MOBILE HOME shall also include manufactured
homes constructed after June 30, 1976, in accordance with the Federal National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., and any amendments or replacements thereto.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.
      1.   A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land upon which
contain sites with the necessary utilities for five or more independent mobile
homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for revenue purposes,
and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or
intended for use as a part of the equipment of such MOBILE HOME PARK. Separate
ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude the tracts of land
from common licensure as a MOBILE HOME PARK if they are maintained and operated
jointly. Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a motorized recreational
vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a MOBILE HOME PARK.
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection 1. above, the existing and only MOBILE
HOME PARK now located in the village, commonly known as “Five Pennies Mobile
Home Park” shall be deemed an acceptable mobile home park and in compliance
with this chapter as of February 11, 2013; provided, however, the terms,
provisions and regulations of this chapter and any amendments or revisions
thereto shall govern and apply:
         a.   To any improvements made or mobile home park spaces added after
February 11, 2013 to said “Five Pennies Mobile Home Park” or to any portion
thereof; and
         b.   To any mobile homes or immobilized mobile homes that are moved
into and placed within said “Five Pennies Mobile Home Park” or to any portion
thereof after February 13, 2013; provided further however, six of the mobile
home park spaces existing as of February 11, 2013 within said “Five Pennies
Mobile Home Park” may provide for mobile homes or immobilized mobile homes with
physical dimensions of 12 feet in width by 60 feet in length and any mobile
homes or immobilized mobile homes located and placed after February 11, 2013
within said “Five Pennies Mobile Home Park” or any portion thereof may be
located and placed on the existing mobile home park spaces as such mobile park
spaces are configured as of February 11, 2013.
   MOBILE HOME PARK SPACE. A portion of a mobile home park designed for the use
or occupancy of one mobile home or one immobilized mobile home.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. The licensee.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A “permanent foundation” consisting of concrete,
mortared concrete block or mortared brick extending into the ground below the
frost line (i.e., at least 36 inches) and is constructed, installed and
maintained around the entire exterior perimeter of a mobile home or
manufactured home.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
   PERMIT. A permit certification issued by the village permitting the
construction, alteration or reduction in number of spaces of a mobile home park
under this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, person doing business under an assumed name, county,
municipality, the state, or any political subdivision or department thereof or
any other entity.
   REVOCATION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by the village for any indefinite period of time.
   SUSPENSION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by the village for a temporary period of time with an expectation
of resumption.
(1987 Code, § 23-1-1) (Amd. 2008 Code) (Ord. 796, passed 2-11-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
§ 9-3-2 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   A.   The Mobile Home Park Act, being 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq., and the Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq., as passed, approved and
amended by the state general assembly, are hereby adopted by the village. The
applicable provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and immobilized mobile
homes shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village.
(1987 Code, § 23-1-2) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   The “Rules And Regulations For Mobile Home Parks,” as approved by the
state department of public health, is hereby adopted by the village. The
applicable provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and immobilized mobile
homes shall be controlling within the village.
(1987 Code, § 23-1-3)
§ 9-3-3 LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES IN LICENSED PARK.
   Except as may be permitted under the limited conditions set forth in §
10-5-2A of this code, entry reading “mobile and manufactured homes,” relating
to doublewide mobile homes or doublewide manufactured homes, it shall be
unlawful for any person to maintain any mobile home (singlewide or doublewide)
or immobilized mobile home (singlewide or doublewide) as a residential dwelling
unit for the owner(s) thereof or for any person to reside therein upon any lot,
tract, or plot of real estate in the village except in a licensed mobile home
park for which an occupancy permit has been issued by the village.
(1987 Code, § 23-2-1)
§ 9-3-4 OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   A.   Permit Required. All persons seeking to locate or replace a mobile home
or an immobilized mobile home inside a licensed mobile home park shall obtain
an occupancy permit from the village board of trustees. No water and/or sewer
and/or gas utilities shall be connected to such mobile home or immobilized
mobile home unit until such occupancy permit has been issued.
(1987 Code, § 23-2-2)
   B.   Conditions Of Permit. Prior to issuance of any such occupancy permit,
the village board of trustees must be satisfied that all of the terms and
provisions of this chapter are fully complied with and all of the following
requirements are or will be met:
      1.   Such mobile home or immobilized mobile home shall be connected to
the village underground public water supply system and public sanitary sewer
system;
      2.   Such mobile home or immobilized mobile home shall be fully skirted
with a material comparable in quality and appearance to the mobile home;
      3.   Such mobile home or immobilized mobile home was purchased new from
the manufacturer thereof or from a dealer in the business of selling such new
mobile homes or immobilized mobile homes at retail within 180 consecutive
calendar days prior to the application for a village occupancy permit to; and
such mobile home or immobilized mobile home was purchased for $50,000 or more;
and such purchase price for such new mobile home or immobilized mobile home
shall be evidenced by a written paid receipt and a bona fide bill of sale or
purchase contract each bearing the notarized authorized signature of the seller
of such mobile home or immobilized mobile home to the applicant for a village
occupancy permit;
      4.   Such mobile home or immobilized mobile home shall be placed on
either a reinforced concrete pad at least 14 feet wide and 60 feet in length,
two reinforced concrete runners four feet wide and 60 feet in length, or on
concrete piers approved by the village board of trustees. The concrete pads
shall consist of four inches reinforced concrete or six inches of concrete. A
concrete footing is optional. Expandable units shall be provided with approved
piers or their equivalent at each corner of the unit. All piers and footings
for immobilized mobile homes shall comply with the definition of same (See
sketch A attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by
reference.);
      5.   Such mobile home or immobilized mobile home shall be placed on a
mobile home space which shall include a minimum of 7,000 square feet for each
mobile home or immobilized mobile home, and such mobile home park space shall
have a minimum width of 50 feet;
(1987 Code, § 23-2-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      6.   Such mobile home or immobilized mobile home shall have physical
dimensions of at least 14 feet in width by 60 feet in length;
      7.   Such mobile home or immobilized mobile home, as located on a mobile
home park space, shall provide yards of the following minimum measurements:
(1987 Code, § 23-2-3)
         a.   Front yard. Twenty-five feet from the front mobile home park
space lot line;
(1987 Code, § 23-2-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
         b.   Each side yard. Ten feet minimum from each side yard lot line;
         c.   Rear yard. Twenty feet from the rear mobile home park space lot
line;
         d.   Corner lots. Yards of corner lots shall provide a front yard on
each side street; and
         e.   Architectural features. Architectural features of such mobile
home or immobilized mobile home such as windowsills, expandable units,
cornices, awnings and/or roof overhangs shall not project into the aforesaid
minimum yard requirements.
(1987 Code, § 23-2-3)
      8.   Such mobile home or immobilized mobile home shall be located on a
mobile home park space which provides for a dustless off-street parking area of
at least 400 square feet and vehicle access to such mobile home or immobilized
mobile home; and
(1987 Code, § 23-2-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      9.   Such mobile home or immobilized mobile home shall be equipped with
self-contained toilet and bath or shower.
(1987 Code, § 23-2-3)
(Ord. 850, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 9-3-5 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
§ 9-3-5-1 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; CONFLICTS.
   A.   Every mobile home park hereafter established in the village shall, at a
minimum, conform to the requirements of:
      1.   The Mobile Home Park Act, being 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.;
      2.   The Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.;
and
      3.   This chapter.
   B.   In case of conflict between any provisions in subsection A. above, the
more stringent requirement shall prevail. Notwithstanding such conflict, any
such mobile home park to be located in the village must meet the definition of
a MOBILE HOME PARK in §
9-3-1 , and an immobilized mobile home may be located in such mobile home park
if same complies with this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-1)
§ 9-3-5-2 SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Mobile home parks may be allowed only by special use zoning permit in the
village, but are otherwise strictly prohibited.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-1)
§ 9-3-5-3 PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT OR LICENSE TO OPERATE.
   A.   Permit Or License Required. Any person seeking to establish, operate,
alter or expand a mobile home park shall obtain a permit to construct or
license to operate a mobile home park. CONSTRUCT OR OPERATE A MOBILE HOME PARK,
as used in this chapter, shall include, but not necessarily be limited to,
supplying or maintaining common water, sewer or other utility supply or
service, or the collection of rents directly or indirectly from two or more
independent mobile homes. (All plans shall be submitted to the village board
for approval prior to the granting of a permit.)
(1987 Code, § 23-3-2)
   B.   Limitations Of Permit. A permit does not relieve the applicant from
complying with this code, including the village zoning regulations, or other
ordinances applicable thereto.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-3)
   C.   Application For Permit; Plans Required.
      1.   In order to obtain a permit to construct or any original license to
operate a mobile home park, the applicant shall file with the mayor a written
application and plan documents, and such plan documents shall be prepared by a
registered engineer or architect licensed to practice in the state, with
registration seal affixed. Two copies of the plan document shall accompany the
application filed with the village to obtain a permit to construct or alter a
mobile home park or an original license to operate a mobile home park, not
previously licensed by the village. These plans shall include, but not be
limited to, the design and construction criteria set forth herein.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-10) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   The application shall be completed by the applicant and the engineer
or architect and shall include:
         a.   The full name and address of the applicant, or names and
addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names and
addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the present or
last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the application.
If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of incorporation
must be filed with the application;
         b.   The proposed method of lighting, and the structures and land upon
which the mobile home park is to be located;
         c.   The plot plans of the mobile home park, building plans and
specifications for existing building and facilities or the proposed alterations
of existing facilities;
         d.   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached; and
         e.   Each application shall be accompanied by an application fee of
$50 for a permit to construct or an application fee of $25 for a permit to
alter or increase the size of the park.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-11) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Review Of Application; Issuance Of Permit. The village board shall
review each application and plan documents submitted. When the application and
plan documents are found to be in compliance with the rules and regulations for
mobile home parks, as promulgated by the state department of public health, the
village board may issue the proper permit to construct or alter a mobile home
park to the applicant. Permits shall be valid for one year from date of issue.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-4)
   E.   Inspections. Upon completion of the proposed construction of a mobile
home park or the proposed alteration of a mobile home, the applicant shall
notify the mayor in order that an inspection of the complete facilities can be
made.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-5)
   F.   License Fee. The annual license fee per mobile home park shall be $50
and shall be due and payable on or before May 1 of each year. The funds shall
be placed in the general fund and applied to the administrative cost of
inspections.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-20)
   G.   Revocation Or Suspension Of License. Any license granted hereunder
shall be subject to revocation or suspension by the mayor. However, the mayor
shall first serve or cause to be served upon the licensee a written notice in
which shall be specified the way or ways in which such licensee has failed to
comply with the statutes, or any rules or regulations promulgated by the
village pertaining thereto. The notice shall require the licensee to remove or
abate such nuisance, unsanitary or objectionable condition specified in such
notice within five days or within a longer period of time as may be allowed by
the mayor. If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the
notice within the time specified or such extended period of time, the mayor may
revoke or suspend such license.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-6)
§ 9-3-5-4 OCCUPANCY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Each mobile home located on a mobile home park space in a mobile home park
shall secure an appropriate occupancy permit from the village.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-7)
§ 9-3-5-5 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Drainage.
      1.   Sites selected for mobile home development shall be well drained and
free from topographical or geological hindrances and from other conditions
unfavorable to a proper residential environment. The mobile home development
shall not be located near swamps, marshes or other breeding places of insects,
rats and mice. When a good, natural drainage is not available, storm drainage
shall be provided, and such drainage shall not endanger any water supply or
surface watercourse.
      2.   The mayor may conduct a site survey to ascertain that the proposed
location complies with the requirements of subsection A.1. above.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-12)
   B.   Roadways And Parking.
      1.   All streets and driveways in every park shall be constructed as may
be determined by the village board.
      2.   All streets constructed in parks shall have a minimum road width of
30 feet for the purpose of this code, and shall be considered local streets. If
a mobile home park has more than 50 units, then a 32-foot width may be required
by the village board.
      3.   When sidewalks and walkways are constructed abutting a street in a
mobile home park, they shall be the minimum width required for sidewalks for
each individual lot. No portion of a mobile home shall block, in any way, the
pedestrian traffic on the walkways.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-13)
   C.   Lot Size. The minimum lot size for a mobile home pad in a mobile home
park shall be 7,000 square feet.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-16)
§ 9-3-5-6 STRUCTURE RESTRICTIONS ON PARK SPACE.
   A.   Only one mobile home or only one immobilized mobile home shall be
permitted to be located on any one mobile home park space.
(1987 Code, §§ 23-2-4 and 23-3-17)
   B.   It shall be unlawful to locate any mobile home or any immobilized
mobile home on any mobile home park space wherein another principal building
exists.
(1987 Code, § 23-2-5)
§ 9-3-5-7 TRAVEL TRAILERS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No travel or recreational trailer or vehicle shall be permitted in any
mobile home park.
(1987 Code, § 23-3-17)
§ 9-3-6 IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOMES DEEMED REAL ESTATE.
   All immobilized mobile homes located in the village shall be classed as real
estate when same conform to the definition of an IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME in §
9-3-1 .
(1987 Code, § 23-3-7)
CHAPTER 4: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
9-4-1   Authority And Scope
   
9-4-2   Definitions
   
9-4-3   Subdivision Approval Required
   
9-4-4   Procedure
§ 9-4-1 AUTHORITY AND SCOPE.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-15-1. The provisions of
this chapter shall govern and embrace all the lands, properties and territory
situated within the corporate limits of the village as now or hereafter
constituted and within all contiguous lands and territory situated not more
than one and one-half miles beyond such corporate limits.
(1987 Code, § 35-1-1)
§ 9-4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. Shall mean and include the village president and
village board of trustees for the village, a municipal corporation.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or resubdivision of any block, lot, sublot or part
thereof, or of any piece or parcel of land into two or more blocks, lots,
sublots or pieces or parcels (counting the original tract from which such block
(s), lot(s), sublot(s), or piece(s) or parcel(s) are created), and such
proposed subdivision map or plat is not exempt under subparagraph (b) of the
Plat Act, being 765 ILCS 205/1.
(1987 Code, § 35-2-1)
§ 9-4-3 SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   It is hereby required that no map, plat or subdivision shall be entitled to
be placed of record in the county and shall not have any validity until it has
been first approved by the corporate authorities. The corporate authorities may
impose reasonable requirements upon the subdivider of the proposed subdivision
prior to approval of the subdivision. Such requirements may include, but shall
not be limited to, the following matters:
   A.   The dedication and/or improvement and/or maintenance and/or vacation of
streets, alleys, roadways and other public ways or grounds;
   B.   The granting of easements and/or rights-of-way for water, sewer, gas,
electric, telephone, cable television and other public utilities;
   C.   The construction, installation, maintenance and repair of water, sewer
and gas main and service extensions;
   D.   The zoning requirements and provisions;
   E.   Flood drainage;
   F.   Lot sizes;
   G.   Proposed location of sewer and storm drains;
   H.   Curbs, gutters and sidewalks;
   I.   Location and width of proposed streets and public ways;
   J.   Plat act requirements under 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.;
   K.   Flood hazard areas; and
   L.   Such other matters as the corporate authorities may require.
(1987 Code, § 35-3-1)
§ 9-4-4 PROCEDURE.
   Each person seeking approval of a subdivision shall follow the procedures
set forth herein:
   A.   Sketch Plan.
      1.   The subdivider shall submit to the corporate authorities a sketch
plan in simple form to avail the subdivider of the advice and requirements of
the corporate authorities. The sketch plan shall include, as a minimum, the
name and address of the subdivider; the proposed layout of streets, alleyways,
roadways and other public ways; the proposed layout and sizes of lots; the
relationship of the proposed subdivision to the streets and alleyways and other
community facilities serving the subdivision; the utilities on and adjacent to
the proposed site; the current zoning classification of the site; the proposed
name of the subdivision; and such other information relative to the site and
existing conditions of the site.
      2.   Within two months of submittal of the sketch plan, the corporate
authorities shall make its comments and requirements regarding the proposed
subdivision known to the subdivider.
   B.   Final Plan.
      1.   Submission And Approval. Within three months thereafter, the
subdivider shall submit to the corporate authorities three prints, and all
accompanying documents required in subsection B.2. below, of the final
subdivision plan, drawn to scale of one inch to 100 feet, consistent with the
current zoning classification of the property, and prepared in accordance with
the aforesaid plat act by a state-registered land surveyor, suitable for
recording with the county recorder’s office, which also complies with and sets
forth the requirements of the corporate authorities; and the subdivider shall
sign and deliver to the corporate authorities three triplicate originals of any
easement and/or dedication instrument and/or other agreement relating to the
subdivision which complies with and sets forth such requirements as the
corporate authorities may require incident to approval of the final subdivision
plat. Upon such submission as required, the corporate authorities shall approve
such final subdivision plat. After approval, the village clerk shall retain two
prints of the final subdivision plat and shall distribute one print to the
subdivider for recording purposes. If disapproved, the corporate authorities
shall inform the subdivider in writing of the noncompliance found.
      2.   Required Information. The following documents shall accompany the
final subdivision plat:
         a.   A signed statement of a registered engineer and the owner of the
land as may be required by state statutes concerning drainage;
         b.   A notarized acknowledgment of the final subdivision plat by the
owner;
         c.   The certificate of a registered state land surveyor attesting to
the accuracy of the survey and the location of all monuments shown;
         d.   Any approved covenants or restrictions relating to the
subdivision; and
         e.   A certificate provided by the subdivider from the county clerk
indicating that payment of taxes is not delinquent.
   C.   Waiver Of Time Requirements. The time requirements set forth in
subsections A.2. and B.1. above may be waived by mutual agreement of the
subdivider and the corporate authorities.
   D.   Recording Final Plat; Failure To Record.
      1.   When the final subdivision plat has been approved by the corporate
authorities and signed by the village president and the village clerk, the
original print (tracing) and any required easement and/or dedication instrument
or other required agreement shall be recorded in the county recorder’s office.
      2.   If the final subdivision plat and said easement and/or dedication
instrument and/or agreement is not recorded within one year after approval by
the corporate authorities, the final subdivision plat must be resubmitted to
the corporate authorities to determine if any changes in said plat and/or in
said instruments and/or in said agreement are needed to meet the requirements
of this chapter. Pursuant to the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-15-1, no map, plat
or subdivision shall be entitled to record in the county or have any validity
until it has been so approved by the corporate authorities; and no title to any
lot(s) or tract(s) of land within the subdivision shall be transferred or
conveyed until the original approved print (tracing) and/or said instruments
and/or said agreement has been so recorded; and any attempted transfer or
conveyance shall be a nullity and of no force and effect.
(1987 Code, § 35-3-2)
CHAPTER 5: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
9-5-1   Purpose
   
9-5-2   Definitions
   
9-5-3   Base Flood Elevation
   
9-5-4   Duties Of The Responsible Official
   
9-5-5   Development Permit
   
9-5-6   Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
   
9-5-7   Protecting Buildings
   
9-5-8   Subdivision Requirements
   
9-5-9   Public Health And Other Standards
   
9-5-10   Carrying Capacity And Notification
   
9-5-11   Variances
   
9-5-12   Disclaimer Of Liability
   
9-5-13   Penalty
   
9-5-14   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
§ 9-5-1 PURPOSE.
   Purpose. This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to
this village by the Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12,
5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-2, in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   Maintain property values and a stable tax base, by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   Made federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
9-5-3 .
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites, telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers, and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      1.   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         a.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building;
         b.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         c.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         d.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         e.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         f.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface; and
         g.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      2.   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The federal emergency management agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This MAP includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the village, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the
village that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of
the village are generally identified as such on panel number(s) 0125 of the
countywide flood insurance rate map of the county prepared by the federal
emergency management agency and dated June 16, 2011. FLOODPLAIN also includes
those areas of known flooding as identified by the community. The FLOODPLAINS
of those parts of unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the village are
generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map prepared for the
county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated June 16, 2011.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the federal emergency
management agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY shall be according to the best data available from
federal, state or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      1.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register;
      2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the
interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      3.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
state historic preservation agency;
      4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the state historic preservation agency.
   IDNR/OWR. State department of natural resources/office of water resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. State department of natural resource office
of water resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary area of
640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream serving a
tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area. Construction on these
streams requires a permit from the department (17 Ill. Admin. Code 3700.30).
The Department may grant approval for specific types of activities by issuance
of a statewide permit which meets the standards defined in §
9-5-6 .
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
9-5-7 .
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National flood insurance program.
   ORDINANCE. The village’s ordinance adopted on April 11, 2011 and entitled
“An Ordinance Amending Chapter 5 of Title 9 of the Edinburg Municipal Code (Re:
An Ordinance Regulating Development in Floodplain Areas).”
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      1.   Built on a single chassis;
      2.   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See the definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, ACTUAL
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this
ordinance equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes REPETITIVE
LOSS BUILDINGS (see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to adoption of this chapter
in which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started, or
increases the floor area by more than 20%. SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. This term includes structures
which have incurred repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the
actual repair work done. The term does not include:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the state register of historic places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-3 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed
to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and
IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Lick Branch, McCloskey
Branch and unnamed tributary to Lick Branch shall be as delineated on the 100-
year flood profiles in the countywide flood insurance study of the county
prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated June 16, 2011.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an AH zone
or AO zone shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the county wide
flood insurance rate map of the county.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an A zone on the countywide flood insurance rate map of the
county shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by
the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   D.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
village, or that may be annexed into the village shall be as delineated on the
100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the county prepared by
the federal emergency management agency and dated June 16, 2011.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-4 DUTIES OF THE RESPONSIBLE OFFICIAL.
   The village’s zoning enforcing officer shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village meet the
requirements of this chapter. Specifically, the village’s zoning enforcing
officer shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with §
9-5-5;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
9-5-6;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
9-5-7 are met and maintain a record of the as-built elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of §
9-5-8;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards in §
9-5-9;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
9-5-11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in §
9-5-13 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps Including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to
the floodplain map.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-5 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the zoning enforcing officer. The zoning enforcing
officer shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development does
not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   A.   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
9-5-7; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   B.   1.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
zoning enforcing officer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey
elevation to be below the base flood elevation. Any development located on land
that can be shown by survey data to be higher than the current base flood
elevation and which has not been filled after the date of the site’s first
flood insurance rate map is not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to
the requirements of this chapter. In addition, any development located on land
shown to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically connected to a
flood source, but not identified as floodplain on the current flood insurance
rate map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The zoning enforcing officer shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood insurance
rate map identification.
      3.   The zoning enforcing officer shall be responsible for obtaining from
the applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits, approvals
or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity.
The zoning enforcing officer shall not issue a permit unless all other federal,
state and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-6 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B. below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert, crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the state department of natural resources, office of water
resources statewide permit number 2;
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities, meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 3;
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 4;
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit
number 5;
      5.   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility lines,
light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6;
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7;
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8;
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9;
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10;
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11;
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12;
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 13; and
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A. above may be
permitted only if:
      1.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-7 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   A.   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of §
9-5-6, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section;
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred;
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.);
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
ore than 180 days per year; and
      6.   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
9-5-2.
   B.   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent, landfill in accordance
with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material; and
         e.   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and. when necessary stormwater management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         b.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         c.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation; and
         d.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored, designed
and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such as
current, waves, ice and floating debris.
            (1)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            (3)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
            (4)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
         c.   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
         d.   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point;
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event;
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   C.   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   D.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B. above; and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Admin. Code 870.
   E.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of subsection D. above
unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck;
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      5.   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      6.   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect;
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model; and
      10.   Must either:
         a.   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   G.   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be non-habitable;
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits;
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot;
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area;
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 576 square feet (24 feet by
24 feet);
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation;
and
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-8 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The village shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they are
known, in all official actions related to land management use and development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
9-5-6 and
9-5-7. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts, for changes in the drainage of surface waters
in accordance with the Plat Act, being 765 ILCS 205/2.
   B.   1.   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be
located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural
streams and channels.
      2.   Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-9 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
9-5-6 and
9-5-7, the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
9-5-7;
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
      4.   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight; and
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as not
to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-10 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   A.   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   B.   In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-11 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the village’s zoning board of
appeals for a variance. The village’s zoning board of appeals shall review the
applicant’s request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the
village’s board of trustees. The village’s board of trustees may attach such
conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
intent of this chapter.
   A.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that all
of the following conditions, are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      6.   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   The village’s zoning board of appeals shall notify an applicant in
writing that a variance from the requirements of the building protections
standards of §
9-5-7 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      1.   Result in increased, premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
9-5-7 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in HISTORIC
STRUCTURES, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements
of §§
9-5-6  and
9-5-7  subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   D.   1.   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be
decided individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
      2.   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the
threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included
for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at-
grade and wet-floodproofed.
         a.   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
         b.   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in zone A only as identified on the community’s flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
         c.   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring and the like) below the base
flood elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
9-5-7.
         d.   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structures in accordance
with §
9-5-7. All of the building’s structural components must be capable of resisting
specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy and hydrodynamic
and debris impact forces. Any mechanical, electrical or other utility equipment
must be located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
9-5-7.
         e.   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to
the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
9-5-7B.
         f.   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
9-5-6. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated floodway.
         g.   Wet-floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the floodplain administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-13 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the zoning enforcing officer
may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists.
The zoning enforcing officer shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten days notice to correct the violation:
      1.   The village shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $250 or more than $750 for each offense;
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      4.   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   B.   1.   The zoning enforcing officer shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      2.   The zoning enforcing officer is authorized to issue an order
requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall
be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance and shall order the action,
if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The
stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      3.   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the board of appeals. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         a.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         b.   The time and place of the hearing.
      4.   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board
of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 9-5-14 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the village’s
board of trustees to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance
program including this chapter of the village code. However, this chapter does
not repeal the original resolution or chapter adopted to achieve eligibility in
the program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other
ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 777, passed 4-11-2011)
TITLE 10: ZONING REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      1.   GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
      2.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
         2A.   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS; VARIATIONS AND APPEALS
      3.   ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
      4.   AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
      5.   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
      6.   COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
      7.   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
Section
   
10-1-1   Title
   
10-1-2   Purpose
   
10-1-3   Definitions
   
10-1-4   Compliance, Application And Interpretation
   
10-1-5   Nonconforming Uses
   
10-1-6   Off-Street Parking
   
10-1-7   Off-Street Loading
   
10-1-8   Vision At Intersections
   
10-1-9   Private Swimming Pools, Spas And Hot Tubs
   
10-1-10   Exceptions And Modifications
§ 10-1-1 TITLE.
   This comprehensive zoning title shall be known as the “Zoning Code of the
Village of Edinburg, Illinois.”
(1987 Code, § 40-1-1)
§ 10-1-2 PURPOSE.
   The zoning regulations and districts as herein set forth have been made with
the following objectives:
   A.   To the end that adequate light, pure air and safety from fire and other
dangers may be secured;
   B.   The taxable value of land and buildings throughout the village may be
conserved;
   C.   The congestion in the public streets may be lessened or avoided;
   D.   The hazards to persons and damage to property resulting from the
accumulations or runoff of stormwaters or floodwaters may be lessened or
avoided;
   E.   The public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare may otherwise be
promoted; and
   F.   To ensure and facilitate the preservation of sites, areas and
structures of historical, architectural and aesthetic importance.
(1987 Code, § 40-1-2)
§ 10-1-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE. Any structure or use that is:
      1.   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal structure or use
which it serves;
      2.   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants or the principal structure or use served; and
      3.   Located on the same lot as the principal structure or use served.
   AGRICULTURAL USES, BONA FIDE. The growing of crops in the open, raising of
stock and poultry, forestry, mushroom growing, flower gardening, operation of
apiaries and aviaries, nurseries, orchards, fur farms, roadside stands, signs
and billboards relating to the sale or use of products produced thereon, and
necessary structures and farm dwellings of such uses.
   ALLEY. Any public or private way dedicated to public travel and less than 20
feet in width.
   BUILDING. Any structure constructed or used for residence, business,
industry or other public or private purposes, or accessory thereto, and
including tents, lunch wagons, dining cars, trailers, billboards, signs and
similar structures, whether stationary or movable.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average grade at
the front wall of a building to the highest point of the roof, or to the mean
height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs. Chimneys,
towers, cooling towers and similar projections (other than signs) shall not be
included in calculating BUILDING HEIGHT.
   DWELLING. A permanent building resting on and fully supported by a permanent
foundation, used primarily for human habitation, but not including facilities
for the housing of transient residents, nor to include mobile homes,
manufactured homes or modular homes.
      1.   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A permanent building resting on and fully
supported by a permanent foundation, providing separate human living
accommodations for three or more families.
      2.   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A permanent building, separate and
freestanding in itself, resting on and fully supported by a permanent
foundation, providing human living accommodations for one family.
      3.   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A permanent building resting on and fully
supported by a permanent foundation, designed exclusively for human living
accommodations for two families.
   HEIGHT. The vertical measurement from the ground to the vertical apex of the
measured wireless telecommunication tower.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any business, profession or occupation conducted for gain
or support entirely within any dwelling or on any residential premises.
   JUNKYARD. A tract of land, including any accessory structures thereon, that
is used for buying, selling, exchanging, storing, bailing, packing,
disassembling or handling waste or scrap materials. Such scrap materials
include vehicles, machinery and equipment not in operable condition (or parts
thereof), and metals, glass, paper, plastics, rags and rubber tires. A lot on
which any inoperable vehicles are stored shall not be deemed a JUNKYARD. A
JUNKYARD includes an automobile wrecking yard and upon which other salvage or
wrecking operations are conducted.
   LOT. A piece, parcel or plot of land occupied or to be occupied by one
principal building and its accessory buildings and including the open spaces
required under this title.
   MOBILE HOME OR MANUFACTURED HOME.
      1.   A structure designed for permanent habitation and so constructed as
to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to its
frame, from the place of its construction to the location or subsequent
locations at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to
permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more persons, and
shall also include an IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME, as defined under §
9-3-1 .
      2.   A MOBILE HOME OR MANUFACTURED HOME shall not include a camping
trailer or recreational vehicle.
      3.   The term MOBILE HOME OR MANUFACTURED HOME shall also include
manufactured homes constructed after June 30, 1976, in accordance with the
Federal National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of
1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., and any amendments or replacements
thereto.
   MODULAR HOME. A prefabricated, precut dwelling which rests on and is fully
supported by a permanent foundation and has at least 800 square feet of living
space, but not including mobile homes or manufactured homes.
   NONCONFORMING USES. A use of a building or land, lawful at the effective
date hereof, that does not conform with the permitted use provisions of this
title.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A PERMANENT FOUNDATION consisting of concrete,
mortared concrete block or mortared brick extending into the ground below the
frost line (i.e., at least 36 inches) and constructed, installed and maintained
around the exterior perimeter of a building or structure or mobile home or
manufactured home.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
entity.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any government-regulated company that provides essential
public services such as water, gas or electricity. However, a pubic utility
shall not include any company or entity that provides telephone, cell phone,
television, cable television, digital television, satellite television or
internet services.
   SHALL. The term herein is mandatory and not directory.
   STREET. Any public or private way dedicated to public travel 20 feet or more
in width. The word STREET shall include the words ROAD, HIGHWAY and
THOROUGHFARE.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The technology which enables information to be exchanged
through the transmission or receiving of voice, video or data signals by means
of electrical or electromagnetic systems or radio waves.
   USE or USED. The purpose or activity for which land or a structure thereon
is designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained. The word shall be
deemed to include designed, intended or arranged to be used.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER. A device or structure affixed to the
ground, a building or other structure, which device or structure is capable of
or intended to support equipment used to transmit and/or receive wireless
telecommunications signals of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever, including,
but not limited to, cable services through a cable system, or telecommunication
services provided through the internet, mobile service providers, devices or
remote stations or devices, or through data-driven services.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building, open,
unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings except as otherwise provided in this
title.
      1.   YARD, FRONT. The yard extending across the entire width of the lot
between the principal building and the right-of-way line or street line which
the building faces.
      2.   YARD, REAR. The yard extending across the entire width of the lot
between the rear lot line and the nearest part of the principal building.
      3.   YARD, SIDE. The yard extending along the side lot line from the
front yard to the rear yard and lying between the side lot line and the nearest
part of the principal building.
(1987 Code, § 40-1-3) (Amd. 2008 Code) (Ord. 829, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 10-1-4 COMPLIANCE, APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION.
   A.   Compliance With Provisions. No building or land shall hereafter be used
and no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered unless for a
use expressly permitted by and in conformity with the regulations for the
district in which it is located.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-3)
   B.   Minimum Requirements. In the interpretation and application of this
title, the provisions contained herein shall be held to be minimum
requirements, adopted for the promotion of public health, morals, safety and
general welfare.
   C.   Conflicting Provisions.
      1.   Any existing village code or part thereof, to the extent it
duplicates, conflicts with or otherwise affects the whole or any part of this
title, shall be disregarded.
      2.   In the case of any conflict between this title or part thereof, and
the whole or part of any existing or future private covenants or deeds, the
most restrictive shall apply.
(1987 Code, § 40-12-1)
   D.   Validity. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this title
shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect or otherwise impair any other
section, clause, provision or portion of this title which is not in or of
itself invalid or unconstitutional.
(1987 Code, § 40-12-2)
   E.   Agricultural Uses. Notwithstanding subsection A. above, none of the
regulations of this title, with the exception of the front yard requirements,
shall be applicable to bona fide agricultural uses as defined in §
10-1-3  of this chapter. This shall not be construed, however, as to eliminate
the necessity of bona fide agricultural uses from applying for and obtaining
the necessary building permit prior to construction, alteration or moving of
buildings. No fee, however, shall be required for a building permit for such
agricultural uses.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-3)
§ 10-1-5 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any lawful use of land or structure existing at the effective date hereof,
or subsequent amendment of this title, may be continued with the following
limitations.
   A.   Expansion; Substantial Changes. Any structure containing a
nonconforming use may not be expanded nor substantially remodeled. The board of
appeals may approve any remodeling and incidental repairs which do not tend to
prolong the life of the nonconforming use.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-4)
   B.   Damage To Structure. Any structure containing a nonconforming use which
has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its current fair market value, as
estimated immediately prior to damage, shall not be repaired or reconstructed
except in conformity with this title.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Discontinuance Of Use. No nonconforming use shall be reestablished
after having been discontinued for 12 months. Vacating of premises or building
of nonoperative status shall be evidence of discontinued use.
   D.   Substitution Of Another Nonconforming Use. No nonconforming use may be
substituted for any another nonconforming use of any conforming use.
   E.   Mobile Homes And Immobilized Mobile Homes.
      1.   Notwithstanding §
10-5-2A, regarding mobile and manufactured homes, or any other provisions
contained in this title, any existing nonconforming mobile home or manufactured
home located, as of August 1, 2000, on any tract, lot, plot of real estate or
space outside of a MOBILE HOME PARK (as defined in §
9-3-1 ) shall be entitled to remain on said tract, lot, plot of real estate or
space until the first to occur of the following events:
         a.   Said mobile home or immobilized mobile home is removed from said
lot or space for any reason;
         b.   Said mobile home or immobilized mobile home is thereafter damaged
to the extent of 50% or more of its fair market value (said fair market value
as determined immediately prior to any such damage); or
         c.   Said mobile home or immobilized mobile home is hereafter sold or
conveyed by the owner(s) thereof for a total sales price of less than $10,000,
exclusive of the lot or space upon which it is situated. For purposes hereof, a
SALE includes, but is not limited to, a sale made through a written or oral
installment contract, contract for deed, cash sale/purchase agreement, lease/
purchase agreement or any other written or oral contract or agreement.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-4)
      2.   Upon the first of the foregoing events (subsection E.1. above), the
owner or owners of said mobile home or manufactured home shall immediately
remove said mobile home or manufactured home from said lot, plot of real estate
or space; and no mobile home or manufactured home shall ever thereafter be
placed or maintained on said tract, lot, plot of real estate or space unless
said lot or space becomes part of a MOBILE HOME PARK, as defined in §
9-3-1  of this code.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      3.   a.   In order to aid the enforcement of this subsection E.:
            (1)   Following a seven-day written notice to the owner(s) or
occupants of said mobile home or manufactured home, the village president and
board of trustees, or their representative(s), shall have the right, at any
reasonable time and from time to time, to go upon and within said mobile home
or manufactured home and the tract, lot, plot of real estate or said space upon
which it is located and appraise said mobile home or manufactured home and/or
said tract, lot, plot of real estate or space; and/or
            (2)   Within seven days of a written request of the village
president, the owner(s) of said mobile home or manufactured home shall provide
and produce to the village president and board of trustees all information,
records and documents evidencing any sale or conveyance of and/or the fair
market value of said mobile home or manufactured home.
         b.   If said owner(s) and/or occupant(s) refuses to allow said
appraisal or timely refuse to provide said information and/or produce said
records or documents, then said mobile home or manufactured home shall be
removed from said tract, lot, plot of real estate or space within 30 days
following a written notice to the then owner(s) and/or occupant(s) to do so.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-4)
      4.   For purposes of this subsection, any existing mobile home or
manufactured home now located within the village and outside of said mobile
home park shall only include the existing mobile homes or manufactured homes as
are listed at the respective locations on exhibit A attached to ordinance 654
and incorporated herein by reference and as further shown in the photos on
exhibit B attached to ordinance 654 and now on file in the village clerk’s
office.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 10-1-6 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   A.   Gravel, concrete or asphalt off-street automobile parking shall be
provided on any lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter
established. Such space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or
alley. For purposes of computing gross off-street parking area required, the
ratio of 250 square feet per parking space shall be used with a minimum width
of 12 feet. The following are minimum requirements for specific uses:
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Type Of Use                           Parking Space Required
Boarding and rooming houses           1 for each 2 rooms occupied by boarders
                                      or roomers
Dwellings                             1 for each dwelling unit
Hospitals and other institutions for  1 for each 4 beds, plus 1 for each staff
care and treatment                    and visiting doctor, plus 1 for each 3
                                      employees
Office uses                           1 for each 300 square feet of gross floor
                                      area
Retail establishments                 1 for each 400 square feet of gross floor
                                      area
Theater, auditorium, including school 1 for each 8 seats available at maximum
auditorium, church or other place of  capacity
public assembly
Tourist accommodations                1 for each room offered for tourist
                                      accommodations
Wholesale, storage, and manufacturing 1 for each 5 employees
establishments
 
(1987 Code, § 40-2-5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   If off-street parking space for nonresidential uses, as required in
subsection A. above, cannot be provided on the same lot on which the principal
use is conducted, the zoning enforcing officer may permit such space to be
provided on other off-street property, provided such space is within 400 feet
of the main entrance to such principal use. Such off-street parking space shall
thereafter be deemed to be required open space associated with the permitted
use and shall not be reduced nor encroached upon In any manner.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-5)
§ 10-1-7 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Every building or structure used for other than residential uses and
constructed after the effective date hereof shall provide space on the property
to be used exclusively for loading and unloading of vehicles. Such space shall
be in accordance with the following schedule:
Building Gross Floor Area  Required Spaces
(Square Feet)
Building Gross Floor Area  Required Spaces
(Square Feet)
0 to 8,000                 1
8,001 to 25,000            2
25,001 to 40,000           3
40,001 to 100,000          4
100,001 to 250,000         5
250,001 to 400,000         6
Buildings over 400,000     6, plus additional space for each additional 200,000
                           square feet
 
(1987 Code, § 40-2-6) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 10-1-8 VISION AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On any corner lot in all districts, except the C-1 general retail district,
there shall be no obstruction to traffic visibility within 35 feet of the
intersection of the two street property lines of the corner lot.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-7)
§ 10-1-9 PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS.
   A.   Requirements. Subject to obtaining the requisite building permit in
accordance with subsection B. below, private swimming pools and/or spas and/or
hot tubs appurtenant to a residential dwelling on the same lot shall be allowed
as permitted uses in R-1 residential districts, provided:
      1.   Such swimming pool, spa or hot tub is constructed, maintained,
operated and used in accordance with all applicable laws, statutes, rules,
regulations and requirements as are now or as may be hereafter enacted or
amended by the state or any of its agencies or subdivision;
      2.   Such swimming pool, spa or hot tub is constructed, maintained,
operated and used in accordance with all applicable provisions of the village
code as now or as may be hereafter enacted or amended, including, but not
limited to, §
9-1-1 that adopted the International Building Code (IBC), 2024 edition, which
incorporates in § 3109 thereof, the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code;
      3.   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, each
swimming pool, spa or hot tub shall be surrounded by a safety protective
barrier and at least one access gate restricting entry into a swimming pool,
spa or hot tub that complies with the International Building Code (IBC), 2024
edition, §§ 305.2 through 305.7, unless:
         a.   Such spa or hot tub is equipped with a functioning lockable
safety cover that complies with ASTM F1346; or
         b.   Such swimming pool is equipped with a functioning powered safety
cover that complies with ASTM F1346.
      4.   At all times that a swimming pool, spa or hot tub is not in use,
each aforesaid access gate shall be closed and locked;
      5.   At all times that a spa or hot tub is not in use the aforesaid
functioning lockable safety cover must be on such spa or hot tub and securely
locked;
      6.   At all times that a swimming pool is not in use, the aforesaid
functioning powered safety cover shall be powered shut and closed covering the
entire swimming pool; and
      7.   For purposes of this section, a SWIMMING POOL, SPA or HOT TUB shall
be considered “not in use,” when the owner or adult occupant of the residence,
or a responsible adult authorized by such owner or adult occupant, is not in
the swimming pool, spa or hot tub or is not outside the residence within 20
feet of an edge of the swimming pool, spa or hot tub.
   B.   Applicable To Existing And Future Swimming Pools, Spas And Hot Tubs.
      1.   Notwithstanding the issuance of any prior building permits for the
construction of any swimming pool, spa or hot tub, the provisions of subsection
A. above shall apply to all owners or tenants of swimming pools, spas or hot
tubs from and after July 11, 2020.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant of any swimming pool,
spa or hot tub to construct, maintain, use or operate such swimming pool, spa
or hot tub unless such swimming pool, spa or hot tub meets and complies with
all applicable requirements for the construction, maintenance, operation and
use thereof as set forth in the preceding subsections A.1. through A.7. above.
   C.   Permit Requirements For Swimming Pools, Spas And Hot Tubs.
      1.   Building Permit Required. It shall be unlawful to commence the
excavation for, or the construction of, or the placement of, or the alteration
of any swimming pool, spa or hot tub until a building permit is first obtained
from the zoning enforcing officer for such work. Such building permit shall be
obtained in accordance with the procedures and provisions as are set forth in §
10-2-2 . For purposes of this subsection C., the terms BUILDING or BUILDINGS as
set forth in §
10-2-2  shall be deemed to include such swimming pools, spas and hot tubs.
      2.   Occupancy Permit. It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant of
any residential dwelling to maintain, use or operate any swimming pool, spa or
hot tub unless such swimming pool, spa or hot tub meets all requirements as set
forth in subsection A. above and such owner obtains an occupancy permit from
the zoning enforcing officer.
      3.   Building And Occupancy Permit Fee. To partially defray the costs of
administering this building permit and occupancy permit procedure, a fee of $10
shall be paid by the applicant to the village treasurer at the time the
application for a building permit is submitted.
   D.   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
subject to and fined as provided in §
1-4-1  for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 872, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 10-1-10 EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   A.   Existing Lot Of Record. When a lot which is an official lot of record
at the effective date hereof does not comply with the area, yard or other
requirements of this title, an application shall be submitted to the zoning
board of appeals for a variance from the terms of this title in accordance with
the procedure outlined in chapter 2, article A of this title. Such a lot may be
used as a building site; provided, however, that the yard and other
requirements of the district in which the variance is located are complied with
as closely as possible in the opinion of the zoning board of appeals.
(1987 Code, § 40-7-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Projections Into Yards.
      1.   Structures Overhanging Sidewalks. Signs, awnings, canopies and
marquees are permitted to overhang the sidewalk in the C-1 general retail
district only; provided, that overhanging signs are a minimum of ten feet above
the sidewalk at any point and that all other structures are a minimum of ten
feet above the sidewalk at any point.
(1987 Code, § 40-7-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   Accessory Buildings. One story accessory buildings may project into
only rear yards abutting on an alley, provided such projection extends not
closer than five feet to the rear lot line.
(1987 Code, § 40-7-3)
      3.   Fences And Vegetation. Fences, trees, shrubs and other plantings may
be constructed in or project into yards; provided, that:
(1987 Code, § 40-7-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
         a.   No fences, trees, shrubs or other plantings more than three feet
high or 30% solid shall be located within 30 feet of a street intersection;
         b.   No fence more than four feet high shall be located closer to the
front of the lot than the principal building; and
         c.   No fence more than six feet high shall be allowed on any other
part of the lot except as may be allowed in §
5-4-4-5 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 40-7-2)
   C.   Height Limits. The height limitations of this title 10 shall not apply
to church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy;
monuments; water towers; chimneys; smokestacks; derricks; conveyors; or flag
poles.
(Ord. 829, passed 4-18-2016)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
10-2-1   Zoning Enforcing Officer
   
10-2-2   Building Permit
   
10-2-3   Certificate Of Occupancy
   
10-2-4   Amendments
   
10-2-5   Remedies And Penalties
§ 10-2-1 ZONING ENFORCING OFFICER.
   A.   Appointment; Duties. This title shall be administered and enforced by
the zoning enforcing officer who shall be appointed by the mayor, with the
advice and consent of the village board of trustees. (1987 Code, § 40-9-1)
   B.   Salary. The salary for the zoning enforcing officer shall be set by the
village board of trustees.
(1987 Code, § 40-9-3)
§ 10-2-2 BUILDING PERMIT.
   A.   Permit Required. It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or
the construction of any building, including accessory buildings; or to commence
the moving or alteration of any building, including accessory buildings; or to
commence the excavation for or the construction of any improvement to any
property, including, but without limitation, patios, decks, swimming pools
(aboveground or belowground) and driveways, until the zoning enforcing officer
has issued a building permit for such work.
(1987 Code, § 40-9-4)
   B.   Application For Permit. In applying to the zoning enforcing officer for
a building permit, the applicant shall submit a dimensioned sketch or scale
plan indicating the shape, size, height and location of all buildings to be
erected, altered or moved and of any building already on the lot. The applicant
shall also state the existing and intended use of all such buildings and supply
such other information as may be required by the zoning enforcing officer for
determining whether the provisions of this title are being observed.
(1987 Code, § 40-9-5)
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit.
      1.   If the proposed excavation or construction, as set forth in the
application, is in conformity with the provisions of this title and other
applicable regulations of the village, the zoning enforcing officer shall issue
a building permit for such excavation or construction. Under no circumstances
shall a building permit be issued by the enforcing officer if it does not
completely conform to the provisions provided in this title. All waivers,
special uses and all other variances must be approved by the zoning board of
appeals.
(1987 Code, §§ 40-9-2 and 40-9-5)
      2.   If a building permit is refused, the zoning enforcing officer shall
state such a refusal in writing, with the cause, and shall immediately forward
such notice of refusal to the applicant.
      3.   The zoning enforcing officer shall grant or deny the permit within
ten days from the date the application is submitted.
   D.   Building Permit For Mobile Homes, Manufactured Homes, Immobilized
Mobile Homes and Modular Homes. The issuance of a building permit for any
mobile home, manufactured home, immobilized mobile home or modular home shall
follow the same procedure as set forth above. However, also required shall be
proof of compliance with §
10-5-2 A. or with §
9-3-4 , as the case may be.
   E.   Restrictions On Permits.
      1.   The issuance of a building permit shall in no case be construed as
waiving any provisions of this title or any other applicable regulations. All
work for which a building permit is issued shall be performed in accordance
with the provisions of this title and any other applicable regulations.
(1987 Code, § 40-9-5)
      2.   No building or improvement shall be constructed over any gas line,
gas main or other part of the village natural gas transmission and distribution
system.
(1987 Code, § 40-9-4)
   F.   Term Of Permit. A building permit shall become void 90 days after
issuance unless substantial progress has been made by that date on the project
described therein.
   G.   Fees. To partially defray the expenses of administering this title, a
fee shall be collected by the zoning enforcing officer in accordance with the
following schedule:
      1.   Residential Uses.
 
Number Of Rooms Building Permit Fee Charge Per Room
2 or less       $8.50
3               $6.00
4               $4.75
5               $4.00
6 or more       $3.50
Notes To Table:
Kitchen, bath, separate room or garage alteration is each counted as a
separate room.
 
      2.   Commercial And Industrial Uses. Building permits for commercial and
industrial uses shall be a minimum of $5, plus an additional $0.50 for each
$500 up to $20,000, plus an additional $0.50 for each $1,000 improvement beyond
$20,000.
   H.   Posting Permit. All building permits shall be visibly posted on the
property where the work is being performed.
(1987 Code, § 40-9-5) (Ord. 850, passed 3-12-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Construction Over Mains, see §
8-2-13
§ 10-2-3 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   A.   Certificate Of Occupancy Required. No land, building, structure, mobile
home, manufactured home, immobilized mobile home, or modular home or part
thereof that is hereafter located, erected or constructed, or altered in its
use or structure, shall be occupied or used until the zoning enforcing officer
shall have issued a certificate of occupancy indicating that such land,
building, structure, mobile home, manufactured home, immobilized mobile home,
or modular home or part thereof, and the proposed use thereof, are found to be
in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Inspections; Issuance Or Denial Of Certificate. Within three days after
notification that a building or premises or part thereof is ready for occupancy
or use, it shall be the duty of the zoning enforcing officer to make a final
inspection thereof and to issue a certificate of occupancy if the land,
building or part thereof and the proposed use thereof are found to conform with
the provisions of this title; or if such certificate is refused, to state such
refusal in writing, with the cause, and immediately forward such notice to the
applicant.
(1987 Code, § 40-9-6) (Ord. 850, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 10-2-4 AMENDMENTS.
   A.   Certificate Required. No land, building or part thereof hereafter
erected or altered in its use or structure shall be used until the zoning
enforcing officer shall have issued a certificate of occupancy indicating that
such land, building or part thereof, and the proposed use thereof, are found to
be in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Inspections; Issuance Or Denial Of Certificate. Within three days after
notification that a building or premises or part thereof is ready for occupancy
or use, it shall be the duty of the zoning enforcing officer to make a final
inspection thereof and to issue a certificate of occupancy if the land,
building or part thereof and the proposed use thereof are found to conform with
the provisions of this title; or if such certificate is refused, to state such
refusal in writing, with the cause, and immediately forward such notice to the
applicant.
(1987 Code, § 40-9-6)
§ 10-2-5 REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
   A.   In case any land, building, structure, mobile home, manufactured home,
immobilized mobile home, or modular home or part of any thereof is located,
erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or
maintained, or used or occupied in violation of this title, the zoning
enforcement officer or the proper authorities of the zoning board of appeals or
the village board of trustees, in addition to and not in lieu of other
available remedies, may institute any appropriate court action or proceedings
to prevent the use or occupancy of such building, structure mobile home,
manufactured home, immobilized mobile home, or modular home or land, or part of
any thereof.
   B.   In addition to and not in lieu of any available remedies, the owner(s)
and/or occupant(s) of any mobile home, manufactured home, immobilized mobile
home that is located or maintained or used or occupied in violation of any one
or more provisions of this title shall remove such mobile home, manufactured
home, or immobilized mobile home from the corporate limits of the village
within 30 consecutive calendar days of the receipt of a written order to cause
such removal that is issued by the zoning enforcing officer. Such owner(s) and/
or occupant(s) shall each be subject to a fine of $250 for each day after said
30 days until such mobile home, manufactured home or immobilized mobile home is
removed from the corporate limits of the village.
   C.   In addition to and not in lieu of any available remedies, any person
violating any provision of this title shall be fined as provided in §
1-4-1 for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 850, passed 3-12-2018)
ARTICLE A: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS; VARIATIONS AND APPEALS
Section
   
10-2A-1   Statute Authority
   
10-2A-2   Appointment And Term
   
10-2A-3   Removals And Vacancies
   
10-2A-4   Meetings
   
10-2A-5   Powers
   
10-2A-6   Variations
   
10-2A-7   Appeals Procedure
   
10-2A-8   Judicial Review
§ 10-2A-1 STATUTE AUTHORITY.
   A zoning board of appeals is hereby authorized in accordance with the
Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3.
(1987 Code, § 40-10-1)
§ 10-2A-2 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   The zoning board of appeals shall consist of seven members to be appointed
by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the village board of trustees.
Successors to each member so appointed shall serve a term of five years. One of
the members so appointed shall be named chair at the time of his or her
appointment.
(1987 Code, § 40-10-1)
§ 10-2A-3 REMOVALS AND VACANCIES.
   A.   Any member of the board of appeals who misses three meetings of the
board within any calendar year without a valid excuse, as solely determined by
the mayor, shall be subject to immediate removal from the board by the mayor.
The chair of the board of appeals shall immediately advise the mayor when any
member has missed three meetings of the board.
   B.   The mayor has the power to remove any member of the board of appeals
for any other cause after a public hearing.
   C.   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose
place has become vacant.
(1987 Code, § 40-10-1)
§ 10-2A-4 MEETINGS.
   A.   Meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be held at the call of
the chair and at such other times as the board may determine. The chair, or in
his or her absence, the acting chair, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses.
   B.   All meetings of the board shall be open to the public. The board shall
keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon every
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions.
   C.   No hearing shall be conducted without a quorum of the board being
present, which shall consist of a majority of all the members. Any absent
member who certifies that he or she has read the transcript of the proceedings
before the board may vote upon any question before the board.
   D.   All actions by the zoning board of appeals shall be immediately filed
in the office of the board and shall be a public record.
(1987 Code, § 40-10-2)
§ 10-2A-5 POWERS.
   The board of appeals shall have the following powers:
   A.   Appeals And Zoning Map Interpretation. To hear and decide appeals where
it is alleged that there is an error in any action by the zoning enforcing
officer or other administrative official in carrying out the provisions of this
title, and for the interpretation of the zoning map; and
   B.   Variations. To hear and decide on applications for a variation in cases
where there are practical difficulties or a particular hardship in the way of
carrying out the provisions of this title.
(1987 Code, § 40-10-4)
§ 10-2A-6 VARIATIONS.
   A.   Findings Of Fact. Before any variation is granted, the board of appeals
must make findings of fact that all of the following conditions are shown to be
present:
      1.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone;
      2.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
      3.   A variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality.
   B.   Conditions Of Variation. In granting a variation, the board may attach
thereto any conditions and safeguards it deems necessary or desirable in
furthering the purposes of this title. Violation of any of these conditions or
safeguards shall be deemed a violation of this title.
   C.   Hearing. No variation shall be made by the board of appeals except in a
specific case and after a public hearing before the board of appeals of which
there shall be a notice of the time and place of the hearing, published at
least once, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days before the hearing, in
a newspaper published in the village, or if none, then in one or more
newspapers with a general circulation within the village which is published in
the county. This notice shall contain the particular location for which the
variation is requested as well as a brief statement of what the proposed
variation consists.
   D.   Fee. In order to partially defray the expenses of public hearings
involving variations, the applicant shall pay the sum of $150 to the village at
the time of filing the appeal for the variance.
   E.   Powers Of Zoning Board Limited. Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to give or grant to the board the power or authority to permit a use
not generally permitted in the district involved.
(1987 Code, § 40-10-4)
§ 10-2A-7 APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   A.   Authority. An appeal to the board of appeals may be taken by any person
aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
governmental officer, department, board or bureau based in whole or in part
upon the provisions of this title.
   B.   Filing Appeal. Such appeal specifying the grounds thereof shall be
filed with the zoning enforcing officer and the zoning board of appeals within
45 days of the action appealed from. Upon appeal, the zoning enforcing officer
shall immediately transmit to the board of appeals all papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(1987 Code, § 40-10-3)
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the zoning enforcing officer certifies to the
board of appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her,
that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In this event, the
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the board of appeals or by a circuit court on application and on
notice to the zoning enforcing officer and on due cause shown.
(1987 Code, § 40-10-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Hearing. The board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
of the appeal, a notice of which shall be given to the parties and shall be
published at least once, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days before the
hearing, in a newspaper published in the village, or if none, then in one or
more newspapers with a general circulation within the village.
   E.   Decision. The concurring vote of four members of the board of appeals
is necessary to reverse any order, requirement, determination or decision of an
administrative official or to decide in favor of the applicant, or to effect
any variation in this title.
(1987 Code, § 40-10-3)
§ 10-2A-8 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   All final administrative decisions of the board of appeals shall be subject
to judicial review pursuant to the Administrative Review Act and the rules
adopted pursuant thereto.
(1987 Code, § 40-10-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 3: ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
Section
   
10-3-1   Districts Established
   
10-3-2   Zoning Map Published
   
10-3-3   Determination Of District Boundaries
   
10-3-4   Zoning Of Annexed Areas
§ 10-3-1 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of this title, all land within the village is hereby
designated on the zoning map as being in one of the following districts:
District Classification
District Classification
AG-1     Agricultural
AG-2     Agricultural
R-1      One- and two-family residential
R-2      Multiple-family residential
C-1      General retail
C-2      Service retail
I-1      Light industrial
I-2      Heavy Industrial
 
(1987 Code, § 40-2-1) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 10-3-2 ZONING MAP PUBLISHED.
   The village board of trustees shall cause to be published no later than
March 31 of each year a map clearly showing the existing zoning divisions and
classifications for the preceding calendar year. If, in any calendar year,
there are no changes in zoning divisions or classifications, no map shall be
published for such calendar year.
(1987 Code, § 40-11-4)
§ 10-3-3 DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Unless otherwise indicated on the zoning district map(s), the boundary lines
of the districts follow lot lines, centerlines of streets, alleys or railroad
rights-of-way, or such centerlines extended, centerlines of creeks or the
corporate limit lines as existing at the effective date hereof.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-2)
§ 10-3-4 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall, from the
time of annexation, be considered as being the same zoning district designated
to said territory under the zoning provisions established by the county zoning
board, until and unless otherwise designated by amendment to this title as
specified in the procedure in § 10-2-4, or as specified in the annexation
ordinance.
(1987 Code, § 40-2-3)
CHAPTER 4: AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-4-1   Purpose
   
10-4-2   Uses Permitted
   
10-4-3   Special Uses
   
10-4-4   Lot Area And Width
   
10-4-5   Building Height
   
10-4-6   Yards
   
10-4-7   Off-Street Parking
§ 10-4-1 PURPOSE.
   A.   AG-1 District. The purpose of the AG-1 district is:
      1.   To encourage the preservation of a proper setting for and pleasant
approaches to the village;
      2.   To provide an area for agricultural pursuits protected from
infringement of unguided urban development;
      3.   To create and preserve a setting for rural small estate residential
development; and
      4.   To conserve the area physically immediately surrounding the village,
an environment capable of accommodating future expansion of the village in an
orderly and efficient manner.
   B.   AG-2 District. The purpose of the AG-2 district is to protect the area
around future proposed lakes from encroachment and intermixing of land which
can be detrimental to the public health, welfare and conservation of property
values.
(1987 Code, § 40-3-1)
§ 10-4-2 USES PERMITTED.
   A.   AG-1 District. The following uses are permitted in the AG-1 district:
      1.   Agricultural uses, commercial grain storage;
      2.   Community buildings; libraries; museums; picnic grounds; religious,
educational or charitable institutions;
      3.   Home occupations, subject to the restrictions of §
10-5-2A for home occupations;
      4.   One- and two-family residential dwellings; and
      5.   Signs:
         a.   Unlighted signs notifying of the sale, rental or lease of land or
sale of farm goods on the premises on which the sign is maintained having not
over 50 square feet of sign area; and
         b.   Signs announcing meeting time and place of civic organizations.
(1987 Code, § 40-3-2)
   B.   AG-2 District. Within any AG-2 agricultural district, except for bona
fide agricultural uses, as defined in §
10-1-3 , no building or premises shall be used or arranged or designed to be
used except for one or more of the following uses which shall be subject to all
regulations and requirements permitted by this title:
      1.   Lakes (artificial);
      2.   Public parks and forest preserves;
      3.   Public picnic grounds, marinas and beaches;
      4.   Public utility substations or booster stations, but not including
power generation or gas manufacturing plants.
(1987 Code, § 40-3-3)
(Ord. 829, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 10-4-3 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted as special uses when authorized by the
zoning board of appeals after a public hearing. Such special uses shall be
subject to the requirements the zoning board of appeals feels necessary to
further the purpose of the agricultural districts as stated in this chapter:
   A.   AG-1 District.
      1.   Cemeteries;
      2.   Commercial resort uses such as lodges, restaurants, rental cottages,
riding stables, golf courses, swimming pools, tennis courts and other such
recreational facilities;
      3.   Outdoor advertising structures, provided they are not closer than
300 feet to the nearest residential or public or semipublic property, and that
permits are issued for not longer than five years;
      4.   Uses of land including quarrying and mining of natural resources,
sanitary landfill and other types of landfill, refuse disposal and dumps; and
      5.   Public utility buildings, structures, substations, uses or land.
   B.   AG-2 District. No special uses provided.
(1987 Code, § 40-3-4) (Ord. 829, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 10-4-4 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   A.   AG-1 District. No dwelling in the AG-1 district shall be located on a
lot less than one acre in area nor 150 feet in width.
   B.   AG-2 District. Lot area and lot width are not specified for the AG-
2 district.
(1987 Code, § 40-3-5)
§ 10-4-5 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   A.   AG-1 District. No residential dwelling in the AG-1 district shall
exceed two stories or 30 feet in height.
   B.   AG-2 District. No height limitation is specified for the AG-2 district.
(1987 Code, § 40-3-6)
§ 10-4-6 YARDS.
   A.   All structures shall have the following minimum yard spaces:
      1.   Front Yard. Fifty feet;
      2.   Side Yards. Each not less than 15 feet; and
(1987 Code, § 40-3-7)
      3.   Rear Yard. Not less than 30 feet.
   B.   Corner lots shall provide the minimum front yard requirements on each
street side of the lot.
(1987 Code, § 40-3-7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
§ 10-4-7 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided in the AG districts in accordance with
§
10-1-6.
(1987 Code, § 40-3-8)
CHAPTER 5: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-5-1   Purpose
   
10-5-2   Uses Permitted
   
10-5-3   Special Uses
   
10-5-4   Lot Area And Width
   
10-5-5   Building Height
   
10-5-6   Yards
   
10-5-7   Off-Street Parking
   
10-5-8   Additional Lot Size Requirements
§ 10-5-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the residential districts is to provide an area for
residential uses and those public and semipublic uses normally considered an
integral part of the residential neighborhood they serve.
(1987 Code, § 40-4-1)
§ 10-5-2 USES PERMITTED.
   A.   R-1 District.
      1.   General Uses.
         a.   Churches, schools, libraries, museums, art galleries, parks,
playgrounds, community centers, cemeteries, public services, utility buildings;
         b.   Light agriculture uses including nurseries and raising of farm
products (not to include livestock or sale of products on premises); and
         c.   Single-family and two-family residence dwellings, leasing of
rooms to not more than two families.
      2.   Accessory Uses To The Above Uses.
         a.   Home occupations; provided, however, no home occupation shall be
established or conducted except in conformity with the following regulations:
            (1)   Employees Restricted. A home occupation shall employ no more
than one individual who is not related to the family residing on the premises;
            (2)   Floor Space. The total area used for a home occupation shall
not exceed 25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling or 300 square feet,
whichever is less;
            (3)   Dwelling Alterations. In any residential district, a
principal residential building shall not be altered to accommodate a home
occupation in such a way as to materially change the residential character of
the building;
            (4)   Outdoor Storage. Outdoor (unenclosed) storage on the premises
of equipment and materials used in connection with a home occupation is
prohibited;
            (5)   Nuisances. A home occupation shall not generate any offensive
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare or electrical interference
noticeable at or beyond the lot lines; and
            (6)   Parking. One space per 150 square feet of floor area devoted
to the home occupation in addition to the parking requirements for the dwelling
shall be provided.
         b.   Doublewide mobile homes and doublewide manufactured homes as
follows:
            (1)   On and after August 1, 2000, doublewide mobile homes or
doublewide manufactured homes are permitted in an R-1 district only under the
following conditions:
               (A)   Such doublewide mobile home or doublewide manufactured
home was purchased new from the manufacturer thereof or from a dealer in the
business of selling such new doublewide mobile homes or doublewide manufactured
homes at retail within 180 consecutive calendar days prior to the application
for a village building permit or occupancy permit to place and locate such home
on any lot, tract or plot of real estate within the village;
               (B)   Such doublewide mobile home or doublewide manufactured
home was purchased for $80,000 or more; and such purchase price for such new
doublewide mobile home or doublewide manufactured home shall be evidenced by a
written paid receipt and a bona fide bill of sale or purchase contract each
bearing the notarized authorized signature of the seller of such doublewide
mobile home or doublewide immobilized home to the applicant for a village
building permit or occupancy permit;
               (C)   Such doublewide mobile home or doublewide manufactured
home is either situated not less than two inches over a permanent foundation or
rests on and is fully supported by a permanent foundation; and
               (D)   Such doublewide mobile home or doublewide manufactured
home shall be thereafter considered permanently attached to and a part of the
tract, lot, plot of real estate or space it is situated on, thereby subjecting
such doublewide mobile home or doublewide manufactured home to the village ad
valorem (real estate) annual tax levy ordinances.
            (2)   On and after August 1, 2000, except as permitted under the
above paragraph, limited conditions for doublewide mobile homes or doublewide
manufactured homes, mobile homes (singlewide or doublewide) or manufactured
homes (singlewide or doublewide) shall not be permitted in any residential,
agricultural, commercial or industrial zoning district within the village
except in a properly zoned mobile home park licensed by the village in
accordance with title 9, chapter 3 of this code and if such mobile home park is
granted a special use designation as provided in § 10-5-3 regarding mobile home
parks.
            (3)   Newly constructed modular homes of not less than 800 square
feet living space that was purchased for $80,000 or more. Such purchase price
for such modular home shall be evidenced by a written paid receipt and a bona
fide bill of sale or purchase contract each bearing the notarized authorized
signature of the seller of such modular home to the applicant for a village
building permit or occupancy permit.
         c.   Unlighted real estate signs, nonconforming business use signs and
public building or church signs or bulletin boards pertaining to the property
on which they are placed and not having over 12 square feet of sign area.
   B.   R-2 District.
      1.   Any use permitted in the R-1 district (subsection A. above);
      2.   Clubs, lodges, hospitals, sanitariums and rest homes; and
      3.   Multiple-family dwellings, tourist homes and lodging uses with
accommodations for not more than 15 persons.
(1987 Code, § 40-4-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
(Ord. 850, passed 3-12-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs permitted in the R-1 district, see §
10-1-9
§ 10-5-3 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted as special uses in the R-1 and R-
2 districts when authorized by the zoning board of appeals after a public
hearing. Such special uses shall be subject to the following requirements and
any other requirements the zoning board of appeals feels necessary to further
the purpose of the residential districts as stated in §
10-5-1.
   A.   Business and professional offices, medical and dental offices or
clinics, law, insurance and real estate offices, bank, finance, credit union,
savings and loan and financial institution offices.
   B.   Mobile home parks (as defined in
title 9, chapter 3 of this code); provided, that:
      1.   Such mobile home park fully complies with the provisions of
title 9, chapter 3 of this code, as now adopted and as may be hereafter amended
from time to time, and the required permit has first been obtained from the
village board in accordance with
title 9, chapter 3 of this code.
      2.   Such mobile home park shall be constructed, operated and maintained
in such a manner so that any mobile home or immobilized mobile home located or
to be located in said mobile home park will qualify for the issuance of an
occupancy permit according to the requirements of
title 9, chapter 3 of this code.
   C.   1.   Planned residential development under single ownership in which
incidental business and recreational facilities for the convenience of the
occupants may be furnished; provided, however, that the property shall have a
gross area of 30 acres and that permitted business uses shall be limited to
those uses allowed in the C-1 district.
      2.   They shall not occupy more than 10% of the gross land area of the
development. Such planned developments may vary the dwelling type requirements,
yard, height or area per dwelling requirements; provided, however, that the
total number of dwelling units to be allowed under normal development does not
exceed the maximum number.
   D.   Any other special use by a particular individual. Such use shall not be
changed or transferred to another individual.
(1987 Code, § 40-4-4) (Ord. 829, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 10-5-4 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   A.   R-1 District.
 Minimum Lot Area Per Family (Square Minimum Lot Width Per Structure (Feet)
 Feet)
                             Minimum Lot Area Per Family  Minimum Lot Width Per
                             (Square Feet)                Structure (Feet)
Single-Family Dwelling
With public water and public 7,500                        50
sewer
With public water or public  10,000                       80
sewer
With neither public water    20,000                       100
nor public sewer
Two-Family Dwelling
With public water and public 4,500                        75
sewer
With public water or public  7,500                        100
sewer
With neither public water    15,000                       125
nor public sewer
 
(1987 Code, § 40-4-5) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   R-2 District.
 
                         Minimum Lot Area Per Family Or Minimum Lot Width Per
                         Rental Unit (Square Feet)      Structure (Feet)
Multiple-family dwelling 2,500                          50
Rooming or lodging house 1,500                          50
Single-family dwelling   6,000                          50
Two-family dwelling      3,000                          50
 
(1987 Code § 40-4-5)
§ 10-5-5 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building shall exceed two stories or 30 feet in height unless each side
yard is increased over the required minimum of five feet for every five feet or
fraction thereof of additional height over 30 feet. In no case shall the
building height exceed 50 feet.
(1987 Code, § 40-4-6)
§ 10-5-6 YARDS.
   All structures to be constructed, altered or moved in the R-1 and R-
2 districts shall provide yards of the following minimum depths:
   A.   Front Yard. Twenty-five feet;
(1987 Code, § 40-4-7)
   B.   Side Yards. Five feet for each side yard;
(1987 Code, § 40-4-7) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Rear Yard. Twenty feet;
   D.   Corner Lots. Corner lots shall provide a front yard on each street
side, however, not so as to reduce the buildable width of the lot to below 32
feet; and
   E.   Projections Into Yards. Architectural features of residential buildings
such as windowsills, cornices and/or roof overhangs shall not project into the
aforesaid required yard minimum depths.
(1987 Code, § 40-4-7)
§ 10-5-7 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   There shall be provided in the R-1 and R-2 districts adequate off-street
parking in accordance with the schedule in §
10-1-6.
(1987 Code, § 40-4-8)
§ 10-5-8 ADDITIONAL LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   For purposes of satisfying the definition of a LOT set forth in §
10-1-3  of this title, the minimum lot area and minimum lot width as set forth
in §
10-5-4 , the building height requirements in §
10-5-5 , the yard requirements set forth in §
10-5-6  and §
10-1-10 B.2., the off-street parking requirements set forth in §
10-1-6 A., entry reading “Boarding and rooming houses” and entry reading
“Dwellings,” and swimming pool requirements set forth in §
10-1-9 , a single-family dwelling or a two-family dwelling may be constructed
and/or located on two or more lots if such lots are adjoining and contiguous
with one another and all such lots have a common owner or owners. In such
event, the total dimensions of all such adjoining and contiguous lots so
utilized for such residential construction or occupancy shall be construed as
comprising one lot for the purpose of determining compliance with the
definition of a LOT and with the requirements for the minimum lot area, minimum
lot width, building height, yard requirements, off-street parking requirements
and swimming pool requirements as are required and set forth in the R-1 and R-
2 districts.
(1987 Code, § 40-4-9)
CHAPTER 6: COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-6-1   Purpose
   
10-6-2   Uses Permitted
   
10-6-3   Lot Area And Width
   
10-6-4   Building Height
   
10-6-5   Yards
   
10-6-6   Off-Street Parking And Loading
§ 10-6-1 PURPOSE.
   A.   C-1 District. The purpose of the C-1 general retail district is to
provide for a wide range of retail facilities and services of such a nature as
to be fully compatible in the proximity they must enjoy in the central business
district or in neighborhood shopping areas.
(1987 Code, § 40-5-1)
   B.   C-2 District. The purpose of the C-2 service retail district is to
provide for those retail businesses and services which require a location other
than the central business district or the neighborhood business district,
requiring either large tracts of land or a highway location.
(1987 Code, § 40-5-2)
§ 10-6-2 USES PERMITTED.
   A.   C-1 District.
      1.    General Uses.
         a.   Any use permitted in a residential district; provided, however,
the zoning enforcing officer determines that any special use complies with §
10-5-3;
         b.   Automotive and related uses: new and used car sales, service and
repair, gasoline filling stations, motorcycle and bicycle shops, cab and bus
stands and depots;
         c.   Business and professional offices, medical and dental offices or
clinics, law, insurance, and real estate offices, bank, finance, credit union,
savings and loan, and financial institution offices;
         d.   Food, drug and beverage: grocery stores, supermarkets, meat
markets, drugstores and liquor stores, bakeries in conjunction with retail
sales, restaurants, tearooms and taverns;
         e.   Major retail outlets: furniture, department, clothing, shoe and
variety stores, hardware, appliance, paint and wallpaper stores;
         f.   Service and recreation: motels and hotels, laundromats, dry
cleaning and laundry pick up station, barbershops and beauty shops, shoe repair
and tailor shops, mortuaries, newspaper publishing, printing shops with not
more than ten full-time, regular employees, storage and transfer
establishments, places of amusement and assembly, commercial recreation; and
         g.   Specialty shops: gift shops, magazine, book and stationery
outlets, florist shops, camera and photography shops, sporting goods.
      2.   Accessory Uses To The Above Uses. Business and advertising signs
pertaining to the business on the property on which the sign is located;
provided, that:
         a.   Illumination of all signs shall be diffused or indirect and shall
be arranged so as not to reflect direct rays of light into adjacent residential
districts or into the public way; and
         b.   Any sign located in the direct line of vision of any traffic
control signal shall not have flashing intermittent red, green or amber
illumination.
(1987 Code, § 40-5-3) (Amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   C-2 District.
      1.   Any use permitted in the C-1 general retail district (subsection A.
above);
      2.   Building trades and equipment: building, concrete, electrical,
masonry, sheet metal, plumbing and heating shops, building material
establishments (provided no assembly), construction, millwork, or concrete
block manufacturing is done on the premises;
      3.   Heavy service processing facilities: laundry and dry cleaning
plants, linens, towel, diaper and similar supply services, animal pounds,
kennels and veterinary establishments, frozen food lockers, seed and food
processing plants, dairies;
      4.   Vehicle drive-in and heavy vehicle service: drive-in theaters,
drive-in restaurants and refreshment stands; express, cartage, and trucking
facilities; large item machinery or bulk sales and storage, not including
outdoor unfenced storage;
      5.   Accessory uses to the above uses;
      6.   Retail and/or wholesale businesses or dealerships that include the
sale, servicing and repair of new and used agricultural, commercial and
residential equipment, vehicles and parts, and the related buildings, offices,
structures and outdoor unfenced or fenced storage of equipment, vehicles,
inventory, parts and supplies incident to conducting such business; and
      7.   Retail and/or wholesale waterworks businesses that include related
buildings, offices, structures, equipment, inventory and supplies, water meter
box fabricating facilities, and outdoor fenced storage of waterworks materials
and equipment including, but not limited to, pipes, valves, hydrants, fittings
and fabrication of waterworks related appurtenances, and all other waterworks
materials and equipment of any kind, nature or extent whatsoever.
(1987 Code, § 40-5-4) (Amd. 2008 Code)
(Ord. 829, passed 4-18-2016; Ord. 907, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 10-6-3 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   A.   Residential Uses. Each residential use to be accommodated in the C-
1 and C-2 commercial districts shall meet the minimum lot area and minimum lot
width requirements of the R-2 residential district.
   B.   Business Uses. Each business use to be accommodated in the C-1 and C-
2 commercial districts shall provide a minimum lot area of 2,500 square feet.
No minimum lot width is required for business uses.
(1987 Code, § 40-5-5)
§ 10-6-4 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   A.   C-1 District. In the C-1 general retail district, no building shall
exceed three stories or 45 feet.
   B.   C-2 District. In the C-2 service retail district, no building shall
exceed two stories or 30 feet.
(1987 Code, § 40-5-6)
§ 10-6-5 YARDS.
   All buildings to be constructed, altered or moved in the commercial
districts shall meet the following minimum requirements.
   A.   C-1 District.
      1.   Front Yard. No minimum yard required;
      2.   Side Yards. No minimum yard required, except lots adjoining a
residential district shall provide a side yard on that adjoining side equal to
that required in the adjoining residential district; and
      3.   Rear Yard. Twenty feet. (Where a rear lot line abuts an alley, one-
half of the width of such alley may be considered in meeting the rear yard
requirements.)
   B.   C-2 District.
      1.   Front Yard. Fifteen feet;
      2.   Side Yards. Ten feet; and
      3.   Rear Yard. Twenty feet. (Where a rear lot line abuts an alley, one-
half of the width of such alley may be considered in meeting the rear yard
requirements.)
(1987 Code, § 40-5-7)
§ 10-6-6 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   There shall be provided in the C-1 and C-2 commercial districts off-street
parking and loading in accordance with the schedules in §§
10-1-6 and
10-1-7.
(1987 Code, § 40-5-8)
CHAPTER 7: INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-7-1   Purpose
   
10-7-2   Permitted And Special Uses
   
10-7-3   Lot Area And Width
   
10-7-4   Building Height
   
10-7-5   Yards
   
10-7-6   Off-Street Parking And Loading
§ 10-7-1 PURPOSE.
   A.   I-1 District. The purpose of the I-1 light industrial district is to
provide for commercial uses, storage, and those manufacturing uses not normally
creating a nuisance discernible beyond its property. (1987 Code, § 40-6-1)
   B.   I-2 District. The purpose of the I-2 heavy industrial district is to
provide for industrial uses not allowed in any other district; provided, that
within this district, uses of a hazardous nature or those producing extensive
smoke or odor shall not be located so that the general hazard or nuisance
affects a large segment of the community.
(1987 Code, § 40-6-2)
§ 10-7-2 PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES.
   A.   I-1 District.
      1.   Any use permitted in the C-1 and C-2 commercial districts, except
residential uses;
      2.   Manufacturing: manufacturing or processing of small items including
gloves, footwear, bathing caps, boxes, cartons and cans, hardware, toys,
electric batteries, motors or generators; textile products manufacturing;
glass, plastics, cement and stone products manufacturing; furniture
manufacturing; food manufacturing or processing, including hatcheries, canning,
freezing, storage and bottling;
      3.   Other manufacturing uses of a light nature, free from any
objectionable odors, fumes, dirt, vibration or noise detectable, at the lot
line. Such uses shall not be established without an application for a permit
which shall be accompanied by a certification by a registered engineer or
architect indicating that fumes, odors, dirt, vibration or noise produced by
the industry will not be detectable at the lot line. In the event of the denial
of such permit, the applicant shall have the right of appeal to the zoning
board of appeals in accordance with
chapter 2, article A. of this title; and
      4.   Warehousing and storage: indoor and outdoor storage of goods and
materials including warehousing, pole yards, building material storage and
trucking storage.
(1987 Code, § 40-6-3)
   B.   I-2 District.
      1.   All uses not otherwise prohibited by law, except as residential
uses; provided, however, the following uses will be permitted as special uses
in the I-2 heavy industrial district only when authorized by the village board
of trustees after a public hearing and recommendation by the zoning board of
appeals:
         a.   Wireless telecommunication towers, radio, telephone, or cell
phone communication or transmission towers or antennas with a height greater
than 45 feet from the ground surface where such tower or antenna is located;
         b.   Junk yards, provided, however, no part of any junk yard which
includes any lot on which any inoperable vehicles are stored, shall be located
closer than 500 feet to the boundary of any residential district, and provided
further that all vehicles, parts and equipment shall be stored, and all salvage
and wrecking operations are conducted within a completely enclosed structure or
within an area screed by a wall, solid fence or closely-planted shrubbery at
least ten feet high and of sufficient density to block the view from adjacent
property; and
         c.   Bag cleaning, boiler and tank works; central mixing plant for
cement, mortar, plaster or paving materials; coke oven, curing, tanning and
storage of raw hides and skins; distillation of bones, coal, wood or tar; fat
rendering; forge plant; foundry or metal fabrication plant; gasoline or oil
storage above ground in excess of 500 gallons; slaughterhouse or stockyards;
smelting plant; and the manufacture of acetylene, acid, alcohol or alcoholic
beverages; ammonia, bleaching powder, chemicals, brick, pottery, terra-cotta,
or tile; candles, disinfectants, dyestuffs; fertilizers; linseed oil, paint,
oil turpentine, varnish, soap and tar products, or any other use which, in the
opinion of the zoning board of appeals, would emit detrimental or obnoxious
noise, vibrations, smoke, odors, dust or other objectionable conditions beyond
the confines of its property.
      2.   The zoning board of appeals shall recommend approval to the village
board of trustees if it is determined that the proposed use will not extend its
detrimental or obnoxious effects beyond the limits of the heavy industrial
district in which it is located. Such special uses shall be subject to any
requirements the village board of trustees feels necessary to further the
purpose of the industrial district as stated in §
10-7-1B.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-2) (Ord. 829, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 10-7-3 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   Each use to be established in the I-1 or the I-2 district shall provide a
minimum lot area of 5,000 square feet and minimum lot width of 50 feet.
(1987 Code, § 40-6-5)
§ 10-7-4 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building in the I-1 or I-2 district shall exceed 50 feet in height.
(1987 Code, § 40-6-6)
§ 10-7-5 YARDS.
   All structures to be constructed, altered or moved in the I-1 and I-
2 districts shall provide yards of the following minimum depths:
   A.   Front Yard. Twenty-five feet;
   B.   Side Yards. Ten feet, except where a side yard abuts a residential
district, in which case, a side yard of 25 feet shall be provided; and
   C.   Rear Yard. Twenty-five feet.
(1987 Code, § 40-6-7)
§ 10-7-6 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   There shall be provided in the I-1 and I-2 districts adequate off-street
parking and loading in accordance with the schedules in §§
10-1-6 and
10-1-7.
(1987 Code, § 40-6-8)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References To Illinois Compiled Statutes
References To 1987 Code
References To 2008 Code
References To Correspondence Dated 9-11-2008
References To Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                     Code Section
5 ILCS 120/2.02               1-6-2
5 ILCS 120/2.06               1-6-7
5 ILCS 120/7(e)               1-6-7
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.          1-10-2;
                              3-9-4
5 ILCS 140/11.5               1-10-2
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.        1-9-1
5 ILCS 430/5-15               1-9-1
5 ILCS 430/10-10—430/10-40  1-9-1
5 ILCS 430/50-5               1-9-5
5 ILCS 430/70-5               1-9-1
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)            1-9-3
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)            1-9-2
10 ILCS                       1-5-3
                              5-2A-1;
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.        5-2A-3;
                              5-2A-9
30 ILCS 235/0.01 et seq.      1-8B-3-3
30 ILCS 235/6                 1-8B-3-3
30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.         8-3-2
30 ILCS 425/1 et seq.         8-3-2
30 ILCS 550/1                 2-1-2
35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.         3-2-27
35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.         3-5-3
35 ILCS 120/2(a)              3-5-2
35 ILCS 120/3                 3-2-27
35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.       2-3-3
35 ILCS 645/5-1 et seq.       3-9-4
                              2-3-3;
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.          3-8-6;
                              3-8-7
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.         5-1-3
65 ILCS                       1-6-1
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1               1-4-2;
                              9-5-1
65 ILCS 5/1-2-9               1-4-1
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30           1-8-5
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50           1-6-3;
                              1-7-2
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25           1-8-11
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10           1-8-10
65 ILCS 5/4-1-1 et seq.       1-5-1
65 ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq.       1-5-1
65 ILCS 5/8-3-16              5-2A-12
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12            9-5-1
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3             10-2A-1
65 ILCS 5/11-15-1             9-4-1;
                              9-4-4
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2             9-5-1
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8             9-5-1
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1             9-2-5
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2             9-5-1;
                              9-2-5
65 ILCS 5/11-117-12.1         8-2-7
65 ILCS 5/11-125-4            8-4A-1
210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.        9-3-2;
                              9-3-5-1
                              9-3-1;
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.        9-3-2;
                              9-3-5-1
215 ILCS 5/415                3-5-4
220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.     3-9-1;
                              3-9-5
220 ILCS 5/21-301(c)          3-8-2;
                              3-8-3
220 ILCS 5/21-401             3-8-1
220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6)       3-8-2
220 ILCS 5/21-801             3-8-1
220 ILCS 5/21-801(b)          3-8-1
220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi)   3-8-1
220 ILCS 5/21-801(d)          3-8-1
220 ILCS 5/22-501             3-8-8
220 ILCS 21-201(v)            3-9-2
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.         3-9-16;
                              7-2-5
220 ILCS 65/0.01 et seq.      3-9-5
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.        8-3-4
225 ILCS 320/3(1)             8-4B-7
                              3-2-3;
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.      3-4-1 —
                              3-4-3
230 ILCS 15/1                 3-4-1
230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.         3-2-3
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.         3-7-2
230 ILCS 40/5                 3-7-1
235 ILCS 1                    3-2-1
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.        3-2-26
235 ILCS 5/3-12               3-2-3;
                              3-2-27
235 ILCS 5/4-2                3-2-1
235 ILCS 5/6-21(a)            3-2-3
235 ILCS 5/6-33               3-2-20
410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.        5-4-10
410 ILCS 705/10-5 et seq.     5-4-10
410 ILCS 705/25-1 et seq.     5-4-10
415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.          8-4A-2
415 ILCS 5/4(e)               8-4B-8
415 ILCS 5/14.2               8-4A-1
415 ILCS 5/14.3               8-4A-1
415 ILCS 15/14.5              8-4A-4
415 ILCS 5/17                 8-4A-3
415 ILCS 55/1                 8-4A-2
425 ILCS 25/9                 9-2-4
425 ILCS 25/9a                9-2-4
425 ILCS 25/9b                9-2-4
425 ILCS 25/9e                9-2-4
425 ILCS 30/1 et seq          5-7-4
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.      3-9-1
                              4-6-8;
                              4-6-11;
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.      6-1-1;
                              6-7-1;
                              6-7-2
625 ILCS 5/1-145.01           3-2-20
625 ILCS 5/6-104              3-2-20
625 ILCS 5/7-601 et seq.      6-7-4
625 ILCS 5/11-208.3(b)(4)     4-6-11
625 ILCS 5/11-208.7           4-6-11
625 ILCS 5/11-501—5/11-502  6-7-4
625 ILCS 5/11-1426            6-7-5
625 ILCS 5/12-201             6-7-4
625 ILCS 5/12-709             6-7-4
625 ILCS 40/1-1 et seq.       6-6-5
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.      5-6-2
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.        5-4-1;
                              4-6-11
720 ILCS 5/26-1               5-4-8
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3)—(a)(113-2-3
720 ILCS 5/28-1.1             3-2-3
720 ILCS 5/28-3               3-2-3
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.        5-4-10;
                              4-6-11
720 ILCS 550/3                5-4-10
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.      4-6-11
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.      10-2A-8
745 ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.     6-7-5
750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.         5-6-2
765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.     9-4-3
765 ILCS 205/1                9-4-2
765 ILCS 205/2                9-5-8
805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.       3-2-3
805 ILCS 180/1-1 et seq.      3-2-3
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.        3-6-8
                              
 
REFERENCES TO 1987 CODE
1987 Code 2026 Code
1987 Code           2026 Code
1-1-3               1-1-2
1-1-6               1-1-1
1-1-7               1-1-6
1-1-8               1-1-5
1-1-9               1-2-6
1-1-12              1-2-1
1-1-13              1-2-2
1-1-14              1-2-3
1-1-15              1-2-4
1-1-16              1-2-5
1-1-19              1-3-1;
                    1-3-2
1-2-1               1-6-1
1-2-2               1-6-4
1-2-3               1-6-2
1-2-4               1-6-2
1-2-5               1-6-3
1-2-6               1-6-5
1-2-7               1-6-5
1-2-9               1-6-2
1-2-12              1-6-6
1-2-15              1-5-1
1-2-18              1-5-2
1-2-19              1-5-3
                    1-8-1;
                    1-8-3;
                    1-8-4;
                    1-8-5;
1-2-20              1-8-8;
                    1-8-9;
                    1-8-11;
                    1-8-12;
                    1-8-14
1-2-21              1-8-2
1-2-22              1-8-5
1-2-23              1-8-7
1-2-24              2-1-2
1-2-25              1-8-6
1-2-26              2-1-1
1-2-27              1-3-2
1-2-28              1-3-2
1-2-29              1-8-6
1-2-30              1-10-1
1-2-31              1-8-10
1-2-32              1-8-13
1-2-33              2-1-3
1-2-35              1-7-1
1-2-36              1-7-2
1-2-37              1-7-3
1-2-38              1-7-3
1-2-39              1-7-3
1-2-40              1-7-3
1-2-41              1-7-5
1-2-42              1-7-3
1-2-43              1-7-3
1-2-44              1-7-3
1-2-45              1-7-3
1-2-46              1-7-3
1-2-47              1-7-3
1-2-48              1-7-3
1-2-49              1-7-3
1-2-50              1-7-3
1-2-53              1-8A-1
1-2-54              1-8A-2
1-2-55              1-8A-2
1-2-56              1-8A-2
1-2-57              1-8A-2
1-2-58              1-8A-2
1-2-59              1-8A-2
1-2-60              1-8A-2
1-2-64              1-8A-2
1-2-71              1-8B-1
1-2-72              1-8B-2
1-2-73              1-8B-3-1
1-2-85              1-8B-3
                    -4
1-2-88              1-8C-2
1-2-89              1-8C-1 —
                    1-8C-3
1-2-90              1-8C-2
                    1-8D-1;
1-2-92              1-8D-2;
                    1-8D-3;
                    1-8D-4
1-4-1               1-10-2
1-4-2               1-10-2
1-4-3               1-10-2
1-4-4               1-10-2
1-4-5               1-10-2
1-4-6               1-10-2
2-1-1               2-3-1
2-1-2               2-3-2
2-1-3               2-3-3
2-1-4               2-3-4
2-1-5               2-3-5
2-1-6               2-3-6
2-1-7               2-3-7
2-1-8               2-3-8
2-1-9               2-3-9
2-1-10              2-3-9
2-1-11              2-3-10
2-1-12              2-3-10
2-1-13              2-3-11
2-1-14              2-3-12
2-1-15              2-3-13
2-1-16              2-3-14
2-1-17              2-3-15
2-1-18              2-3-2
6-1-1               9-2-1;
                    9-2-2
6-1-2               9-2-3
6-1-5               9-2-4
6-1-9               9-2-5
Ch. 7               3-5-3
7-1-1               3-1-1
7-1-2               8-5-1
7-1-3               3-1-2
7-2-1               3-5-1
                    3-5-2;
7-2-2               3-5-5;
                    3-5-7
7-2-3               3-5-3
7-2-4               3-5-3
7-2-6               3-5-6
7-2-7               3-5-10
7-2-8               3-5-11
7-2-9               3-5-8
7-2-10              3-5-9
7-2-11              3-5-12
7-4-1               3-3-1
7-4-2               3-3-2
7-4-3               3-3-3
7-4-4               3-3-9
7-4-5               3-3-4
7-4-6               3-3-5
7-4-7               3-3-7;
                    3-3-9
7-4-8               3-3-6
7-4-9               3-3-10
7-4-10              3-3-8
7-5-1               3-4-1
7-5-2               3-4-2;
                    3-4-3
7-5-3               3-4-4
                    3-4-2;
7-5-4               3-4-5;
                    3-4-6
7-5-5               3-4-3
7-5-6               3-4-6
7-5-7               3-4-7
7-5-8               3-4-8
7-5-9               3-4-9
10-1-1              3-6-1
10-1-2              3-6-2
10-1-3              3-6-3
10-1-4              3-6-4
10-1-5              3-6-4
10-1-6              3-6-5
10-1-7              3-6-6
10-1-8              3-6-7
10-1-9              3-6-8
10-1-10             3-6-9
10-1-11             3-6-10
10-1-12             3-6-11
10-1-13             3-6-12
10-1-14             3-6-13
10-1-15             3-6-14
10-1-16             3-6-15
10-1-17             3-6-16
10-1-18             3-6-17
10-1-19             3-6-18
10-1-20             3-6-19
10-1-21             3-6-20
10-1-22             3-6-21
10-1-23             3-6-22
10-1-24             3-6-23
10-1-25             3-6-24
10-1-26             3-6-25
10-1-27             3-6-26
10-1-28             3-6-27
21-1-1              3-2-1
21-2-1              3-2-2
21-2-2              3-2-4;
                    3-2-23
21-2-3              3-2-3
21-2-4              3-2-4 —
                    3-2-7
21-2-5              3-2-8;
                    3-2-9
21-2-6              3-2-5
21-2-7              3-2-12;
                    3-2-13
21-2-8              3-2-10
21-2-9              3-2-11
21-3-1              3-2-14
21-3-2              3-2-15
21-3-3              3-2-15
21-3-4              3-2-3
21-3-5              3-2-3
21-3-6              3-2-21
21-3-7              3-2-20
21-3-8              3-2-15
21-3-10             3-2-21
21-3-11             3-2-19
21-3-12             3-2-18
21-3-13             3-2-16
21-3-14             3-2-16
21-3-15             3-2-16
21-3-16             3-2-22
21-3-17             3-2-22
21-3-18             3-2-22
21-3-19             3-2-17;
                    3-2-18
21-3-20             3-2-18
21-3-21             3-2-18
21-3-22             3-2-18
21-3-23             3-2-21
21-3-24             3-2-18
21-3-25             3-2-18
21-3-26             3-2-23
21-4-1              3-2-24
21-4-2              3-2-25
21-4-3              3-2-28
21-4-5              3-2-22
21-4-6              3-2-29
21-4-7              3-2-26
21-4-8              3-2-27
21-4-9              3-2-30
23-1-2              9-3-2
23-1-3              9-3-2
23-2-1              9-3-3
23-2-2              9-3-4
23-2-3              9-3-4
23-2-4              9-3-5-6
23-2-5              9-3-5
                    -6
23-3-1              9-3-5-1;
                    9-3-5-2
23-3-2              9-3-5-3
23-3-3              9-3-5-3
23-3-4              9-3-5-3
23-3-5              9-3-5-3
23-3-6              9-3-5
                    -3
23-3-7              9-3-5-4;
                    9-3-6
23-3-10             9-3-5-3
23-3-11             9-3-5
                    -3
23-3-12             9-3-5-5
23-3-13             9-3-5-5
23-3-16             9-3-5-5
23-3-17             9-3-5-6;
                    9-3-5-7
23-3-20             9-3-5
                    -3
Ch. 24 Schedule A   6-4-1
Ch. 24 Schedule B   6-4-2
Ch. 24 Schedule B-1 6-4-2
Ch. 24 Schedule B-2 6-4-2
Ch. 24 Schedule C   6-4-3
Ch. 24 Schedule D   6-4-5
Ch. 24 Schedule F   6-4-4
Ch. 24 Schedule T   6-4-6
24-1-1              6-1-1
24-2-1              6-1-4
24-2-2              6-1-5
24-2-3              6-5-2
24-2-4              6-1-6
24-2-5              6-1-6
24-2-6              6-1-6
24-2-7              6-1-6
24-2-8              6-1-2
24-2-9              6-1-7
24-2-10             6-5-4
24-2-11             6-1-3
24-3-1              6-2-1
24-3-2              6-2-1
24-3-3              6-2-1
24-3-4              6-2-1
24-4-2              6-2-2;
                    6-2-3
24-5-1              6-5-1
24-5-2              6-5-1
24-5-3              6-5-1
24-5-4              6-2-4
24-5-5              6-5-1
24-5-6              6-5-1
24-6-1              6-3-1
24-6-1.1            6-4-4
24-6-2              6-3-2
24-6-3              6-3-4
24-6-4              6-3-3
24-9-1              6-4-6
24-9-2              6-5-3
24-9-10             6-4-5
24-8-1              6-6-1
24-8-2              6-6-2
24-8-3              6-6-4
24-8-4              6-6-5
24-8-5              6-6-3
25-1-1              4-1-1
25-1-2              4-1-2
25-1-3              4-1-3
25-1-4              4-1-3
25-1-5              4-1-4
25-1-6              4-1-5
25-2-1              4-2-1
25-2-2              4-2-2
25-2-3              4-2-3
25-2-4              4-2-3
25-2-5              4-2-4
25-2-6              4-2-5
25-2-7              4-2-5
25-2-8              4-2-5
25-2-9              4-2-6
25-2-10             4-2-7
25-3-1              4-3-1
25-3-2              4-3-2
25-3-3              4-3-2
25-3-4              4-3-3
25-3-5              4-3-4
25-3-6              4-3-4
25-3-7              4-3-4
25-3-8              4-3-5
25-4-1              4-6-1
25-4-2              4-6-2
25-4-3              4-6-3
25-4-4              4-6-4;
                    4-6-5
25-4-4-1            4-6-6
25-4-4-2            4-6-7
25-4-5              4-6-8
25-4-6              4-6-9
25-4-7              4-6-10
27-1-2              5-4-1
27-2-1              5-4-6
27-2-2              5-4-7
27-2-3              5-4-3-1
27-2-4              5-4-3-2
27-2-5              5-4-4-1
27-5-6              5-4-4-3;
                    5-4-4-6
27-5-7              5-4-4
                    -4
27-2-8              5-4-2
27-2-9              5-4-4-5
27-2-10             5-5-1
27-2-11             5-5-2
27-2-12             5-4-3-3
27-2-13             5-4-3-4
27-2-14             5-4-4
                    -1
27-2-16             5-7-1 —
                    5-7-4
27-2-18             5-6-3
27-3-1              5-4-5
27-4-4              5-4-4-7
27-6-9              4-5-1 —
                    4-5-4
27-7-1              4-4-1
27-7-2              4-4-2
27-7-3              4-4-3
27-7-4              4-4-3
27-7-5              4-4-4
27-7-6              4-4-10
27-7-7              4-4-5
27-7-8              4-4-6
27-7-9              4-4-7
27-7-10             4-4-8;
                    4-4-9
27-7-11             4-4-10
27-8-1              8-5-2
27-8-2              8-5-2
27-8-3              8-5-2
27-8-4              8-5-2
30-1-1              5-2B-1
30-1-2              5-2B-2
30-1-3              5-2B-3
30-1-4              5-2B-4
30-1-5              5-2B-5
30-1-6              5-2B-6
30-2-1              5-1-1
30-2-2              5-1-2
30-2-3              5-1-2
30-2-6              5-1-5
30-2-7              5-1-2;
                    5-1-6
30-2-8              5-1-11
30-2-9              5-1-12
30-2-10             5-1-7
30-2-11             5-1-13
30-2-12             5-1-10
30-2-13             5-1-9
30-2-14             5-1-14
30-2-15             5-1-8
30-2-16             5-1-15
30-2-17             5-1-2
30-3-1              5-2A-1
30-3-2              5-2A-2
30-3-3              5-2A-3
30-3-4              5-2A-4
30-3-5              5-2A-5
30-3-6              5-2A-6
30-3-7              5-2A-7
30-3-8              5-2A-8
30-3-9              5-2A-9
30-3-10             5-2A-10
30-3-11             5-2A-11
30-3-12             5-2A-12
33-1-1              7-1-1
33-1-2              7-1-1
33-2-2              7-1-3
33-2-3              7-1-2
33-2-4              7-1-6
33-2-5              7-1-9
33-2-7              7-1-11
33-2-8              7-1-3
33-2-9              7-1-3
33-2-10             7-1-7
33-2-11             7-1-5
33-2-12             7-1-4
33-2-13             7-1-5
33-2-14             7-1-10
33-2-15             7-1-8
33-2-17             7-1-12
33-3-3              7-3-5
33-3-4              7-3-6
33-3-6              7-3-4;
                    7-3-6
33-3-7              7-3-1
33-3-8              7-3-7
33-3-9              7-3-7
33-4-1              7-2-1
33-4-2              7-2-2
33-4-3              7-2-3
33-4-4              7-2-4
                    7-1A-1;
33-5-1              7-1A-3;
                    7-1A-4
33-5-2              8-3-6
33-6-1              7-1B-2
33-6-2              7-1B-2
33-6-3              7-1B-2
33-6-4              7-1B-2
33-7-1              7-1B-1
33-7-2              7-1B-1
33-7-3              7-1B-1
33-7-4              7-1B-1
33-7-5              7-1B-1
33-8-1              7-1C-1
33-8-2              7-1C-2
33-8-3              7-1C-3
33-8-4              7-1C-4
35-1-1              9-4-1
35-2-1              9-4-2
35-3-1              9-4-3
35-3-2              9-4-4
35A-1-1             7-3-1
35A-1-2             7-3-2
35A-1-3             7-3-3
35A-1-4             7-3-3
35A-1-5             7-3-3
36-1-1              2-2-1
36-1-2              2-2-2
38-1-1              8-2-1
38-1-2              8-2-1
38-1-4              8-2-1
38-1-10             8-3-1
38-1-11             8-3-1
38-1-13             8-3-1
38-1-20             8-4-1
38-1-21             8-4-1
38-1-23             8-4-1
38-2-1              8-1-1
38-2-2              8-1-3
38-2-3              8-1-3
38-2-4              8-1-2
38-2-5              8-1-7
38-2-6              8-1-8
38-2-7              8-1-1
38-2-8              8-1-4
38-2-10             8-1-5
38-2-12             8-1-3
38-3-1              8-2-2
38-3-2              8-2-2
38-3-3              8-2-2
38-3-4              8-2-11
38-3-5              8-2-9
38-3-6              8-2-7
38-3-9              8-2-7
38-3-10             8-2-3
38-3-11             8-2-5
38-3-12             8-2-6
38-3-13             8-2-7
38-3-14             8-2-3
38-3-15             8-2-14
38-3-15A            8-2-8
38-3-16             8-2-7
38-3-17             8-2-4
38-3-18             8-2-4
38-3-19             8-2-13
38-3-20             8-2-12
38-3-21             8-2-10
38-3-22             8-2-15
38-4-1              8-4-2
38-4-4              8-4-3
38-4-5              8-4-3
38-4-6              8-4-3
38-4-7              8-4-3
38-4-8              8-4-3
38-4-9              8-4-4
38-4-11             8-4-4
38-4-12             8-4-4
                    8-4-5-2;
38-4-14             8-4-5-3;
                    8-4-5-4;
                    8-4-5-6
38-4-16             8-4-5-6
38-4-17             8-4-5-6
38-4-18             8-4-5
                    -7
38-4-19             8-4-6
38-4-20             8-4-8
38-4-23             8-4-10
38-4-24             8-4-10
38-4-27             8-4-12
38-4-29             8-4-2
38-4-39             8-4B-1
38-4-40             8-4B-2
38-4-41             8-4B-5
38-4-42             8-4B-3
38-4-43             8-4B-4
38-4-44             8-4B-6
38-4-45             8-4B-7;
                    8-4B-8
38-4-46             8-4B-8
38-4-47             8-4B-8
38-4-48             8-4B-8
38-4-49             8-4B-8
38-4-50             8-4B-9
38-4-51             8-4B-10
38-5-1              8-3-2
38-5-5              8-3-3
38-5-6              8-3-3
38-5-7              8-3-3
38-5-10             8-3-4
38-5-11             8-3-4
38-5-12             8-3-4
38-5-13             8-3-4
38-5-14             8-3-4
38-5-15             8-3-4
38-5-17             8-3-4
38-5-20             8-3-5
38-5-21             8-3-5
38-5-22             8-3-5
38-5-23             8-3-5
38-5-24             8-3-5
38-5-25             8-3-5
38-5-26             8-3-5
38-5-27             8-3-5
38-5-28             8-3-5
38-5-29             8-3-5
38-5-30             8-3-5
38-5-32             8-3-5
38-5-38             8-3-7
38-5-40             8-3-7
38-5-41             8-3-7
38-5-42             8-3-7
38-5-43             8-3-8
38-5-44             8-3-9
38-5-45             8-3-10
38-5-46             8-3-11
38-5-47             8-3-11
38-5-48             8-3-12
38-5-50             8-3-14
38-5-52             8-3-15
38-5-53             8-3-15
38-5-54             8-3-15
38-5-56             8-3-17
38-5-57             8-3-17
38-5-58             8-3-17
38-5-60             8-3A-1
38-5-61             8-3A-2
38-5-62             8-3A-3
38-5-62.5           8-3A-3
38-5-63             8-3A-3
38-5-64             8-3A-4
38-5-65             8-3A-4
38-5-66             8-3A-3
                    8-3A-5;
38-5-70             8-3A-6;
                    8-3A-7
38-5-72             8-3A-9
38-5-74             8-3A-9
38-5-75             8-3A-10
38-5-76             8-3A-9
38-5-77             8-3A-11
38-5-78             8-3A-11
38-5-80             8-3A-14
38-5-81             8-3A-12
38-5-82             8-3A-3
38-5-83             8-3A-13
38-5-84             8-3-13
38-5-85             8-3-13
40-1-1              10-1-1
40-1-2              10-1-2
40-1-3              10-1-3
40-2-1              10-3-1
40-2-2              10-3-3
40-2-3              10-1-4;
                    10-3-4
40-2-4              10-1-5
40-2-5              10-1-6
40-2-6              10-1-7
40-2-7              10-1-8
40-3-1              10-4-1
40-3-2              10-4-2
40-3-3              10-4-2
40-3-4              10-4-3
40-3-5              10-4-4
40-3-6              10-4-5
40-3-7              10-4-6
40-3-8              10-4-7
40-4-1              10-5-1
40-4-3              10-5-2
40-4-4              10-5-3
40-4-5              10-5-4
40-4-6              10-5-5
40-4-7              10-5-6
40-4-8              10-5-7
40-4-9              10-5-8
40-5-1              10-6-1
40-5-2              10-6-1
40-5-3              10-6-2
40-5-4              10-6-2
40-5-5              10-6-3
40-5-6              10-6-4
40-5-7              10-6-5
40-5-8              10-6-6
40-6-1              10-7-1
40-6-2              10-7-1
40-6-3              10-7-2
40-6-5              10-7-3
40-6-6              10-7-4
40-6-7              10-7-5
40-6-8              10-7-6
40-7-1              10-1-10
40-7-2              10-1-10
40-7-3              10-1-10
40-9-1              10-2-1
40-9-2              10-2-2
40-9-3              10-2-1
40-9-4              10-2-2
40-9-5              10-2-2
40-9-6              10-2-3;
                    10-2-4
                    10-2A-1;
40-10-1             10-2A-2;
                    10-2A-3
40-10-2             10-2A-4
40-10-3             10-2A-7
                    10-2A-5;
40-10-4             10-2A-6;
                    10-2A-8
40-11-4             10-3-2
40-12-1             10-1-4
40-12-2             10-1-4
43-1-1              8-4A-1
43-1-2              8-4A-2
43-1-3              8-4A-3
43-1-4              8-4A-4
43-1-5              8-4A-3
43-1-6              8-4A-5
                    
 
REFERENCES TO 2008 CODE
2026 Code
2026 Code
1-1-1
1-1-3
1-1-4
1-1-6
1-2-1
1-3-1
1-3-2
1-3-3
1-5-1
1-5-3
1-6-1
1-6-2
1-6-3
1-6-5
1-6-6
1-7-2
1-7-3
1-7-5
1-8-2
1-8-3
1-8-5
1-8-6
1-8-7
1-8-9
1-8-10
1-8-11
1-8-12
1-8B-3-1
1-8B-3-2
1-8B-3-3
1-8B-3-4
1-8C-2
1-8D-3
1-9-1
1-9-4
1-9-5
1-9-6
1-9-7
1-10-2
2-1-1
2-1-2
2-3-3
2-3-4
2-3-7
2-3-8
2-3-9
2-3-10
2-3-11
2-3-12
2-3-13
3-2-1
3-2-3
3-2-4
3-2-13
3-2-14
3-2-15
3-2-16
3-2-17
3-2-18
3-2-20
3-2-21
3-2-22
3-2-23
3-2-24
3-2-25
3-2-26
3-2-27
3-2-28
3-2-30
3-3-9
3-4-2
3-4-6
3-4-8
3-5-3
3-6-2
3-6-3
3-6-7
3-6-8
3-6-10
3-6-14
3-6-18
3-6-27
4-1-1
4-1-4
4-1-5
4-2-5
4-2-7
4-3-4
4-3-5
4-4-1
4-4-2
4-4-8
4-5-4
4-6-5
4-6-6
4-6-7
4-6-10
5-1-13
5-1-14
5-2A-1
5-2A-2
5-2A-3
5-2A-4
5-2A-6
5-2A-7
5-2A-8
5-2A-9
5-2A-12
5-4-1
5-4-3-1
5-4-3-2
5-4-4
-1
5-6-2
5-7-3
6-1-1
6-1-4
6-2-2
6-2-4
6-3-1
6-4-2
6-4-3
6-4-5
6-4-6
6-5-2
6-5-4
6-6-3
7-1B-2
7-1C-1
7-1C-3
7-3-3
8-1-1
8-1-5
8-2-1
8-2-3
8-2-4
8-2-7
8-2-9
8-2-15
8-3-1
8-3-2
8-3-3
8-3-4
8-3-5
8-3-14
8-3-17
8-3A-3
8-3A-7
8-3A-14
8-4-1
8-4-2
8-4-5-3
8-4-5
-4
8-4A-2
8-4A-5
8-4B-3
8-4B-7
8-4B-8
8-5-2
9-2-1
9-2-2
9-2-3
9-2-4
9-2-5
9-3-1
9-3-2
9-3-4
9-3-5-3
10-1-3
10-1-5
10-1-6
10-1-7
10-1-10
10-2A-7
10-3-1
10-4-6
10-5-2
10-5-4
10-5-6
10-6-2
 
REFERENCES TO CORRESPONDENCE DATED 9-11-2008
2026 Code
2026 Code
1-6-1
1-7-4
1-8A-3
6-4-2
6-4-5
6-4-6
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
696      5-10-2004   1-9-1 —
                     1-9-7
                     1-4-3;
                     1-4-4;
                     8-1-6;
                     8-3-3;
                     8-3-5;
                     8-3-7;
698      6-14-2004   8-3-16;
                     8-4-2;
                     8-4-4;
                     8-4-7;
                     8-4-9;
                     8-4-13;
                     8-4B-10
700      6-14-2004   1-8E-1 —
                     1-8E-3
                     8-1-3;
702      10-11-2004  8-2-7;
                     8-3A-8;
                     8-4-5-5
704      4-11-2005   7-2-5
709      6-13-2005   6-4-2
720      5-8-2006    7-1A-2;
                     7-1A-5
725      9-11-2006   3-5-4
727      10-9-2006   6-4-2
738      6-11-2007   8-1-3
751      12-8-2008   6-4-3
755      3-16-2009   6-4-4
765      2-8-2010    8-4-5-1
772      8-9-2010    5-3-1 —
                     5-3-15
773      8-9-2010    5-6-2
776      3-14-2011   5-3-15
777      4-11-2011   9-5-1 —
                     9-5-14
783      7-11-2011   7-1-3
784      11-14-2011  3-2-14
787      3-12-2012   5-1-3
                     3-3-1;
790      7-9-2012    3-7-1;
                     3-7-2
791      8-13-2012   8-4-11
796      2-11-2013   9-3-1
799      4-8-2013    6-4-2
804      10-14-2013  1-6-6
810      7-14-2014   8-2-3;
                     8-2-4
811      8-11-2014   1-4-1;
                     1-4-2
812      8-11-2014   2-1-2
813      9-8-2014    5-6-1
818      1-12-2015   6-4-2
821      8-10-2015   3-8-1 —
                     3-8-8
822      8-10-2015   3-9-1 —
                     3-9-24
823      9-14-2015   5-4-8;
                     5-4-9
824      10-12-2015  5-1-4
                     3-9-1;
828      4-11-2016   3-9-2;
                     3-9-4
                     10-1-3;
                     10-1-10;
                     10-4-2;
829      4-18-2016   10-4-3;
                     10-5-3;
                     10-6-2;
                     10-7-2
                     6-2-2;
845      11-13-2017  6-4-2;
                     6-4-4 —
                     6-4-6
                     9-3-4;
                     10-2-2;
850      3-12-2018   10-2-3;
                     10-2-5;
                     10-5-2
852      5-14-2018   8-4-5-1
855      7-9-2018    6-7-1 —
                     6-7-6
856      9-10-2018   3-2-9
859      2-11-2019   5-1-6
860      3-11-2019   1-4-1
862      5-13-2019   6-4-2
865      8-12-2019   4-6-11
866      9-9-2019    7-4-1 —
                     7-4-4
868      12-9-2019   5-4-10
869      12-9-2019   6-5-3
873      6-29-2020   5-4-4-8
872      7-13-2020   10-1-9
884      5-9-2022    1-4-1
887      11-14-2022  6-7-4
897      12-11-2023  1-6-7
906      7-8-2024    6-4-2
907      7-8-2024    10-6-2
910      11-12-2024  9-1-1 —
                     9-1-3
                    
 
