EFFINGHAM COUNTY, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2019 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019; and
State legislation current through
Illinois Legislative Service, 2019 Acts, Pamphlet No. 2
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
***** ADOPTING ORDINANCE *****
   ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR EFFINGHAM COUNTY REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF EFFINGHAM COUNTY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of Effingham County are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the County and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Illinois empower and
authorize Lake County to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Effingham County Board has authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of Effingham County of a general
and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of Effingham
County and for immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the County that this ordinance take effect at an early date.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EFFINGHAM COUNTY BOARD:
Section 1. The general ordinances of Effingham County as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the Code of Ordinances for Effingham County, Illinois.
Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Code Construction; general Penalty
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   General Provisions
      31.   Emergency Management
      32.   County Board
      33.   Officials and Employees
      34.   Policies and procedures
      35.   County Organizations
      36.   Tax and Finance
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS AND SOLID WASTE
      50.   Water Wells
      51.   Private Sewage Disposal
      52.   Solid Waste; Landfills
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   [Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Animal Control
      91.   Fair Housing
      92.   Fireworks
      93.   Smoking
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   Alcoholic Beverages
      111.   Raffle Code
      112.   Peddlers, Solicitors, and the Like
      113.   Body Art Businesses
      114.   Adult Oriented Businesses
      115.   Food Establishments
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   Truancy
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Subdivisions
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
   References to Prior Code
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Effingham County Board and the Clerk of Effingham County is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the Clerk.
Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any notices thereof as required by
law have been given.
Section 6. This ordinance is declared necessary for the immediate preservation
of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the people of Effingham
County and shall take effect in 30 days.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by Effingham County, Illinois on this 18th day of July,
2016.
      Motion  Rob Arnold             Second  Jeff Simpson
                        James Niemann /s/
                  Jim Niemann, Effingham County Board Chairman
Attest
Kerry Hirtzel /s/
Kerry Hirtzel, Effingham County Clerk
***** Ord. 17-78 *****
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
EFFINGHAM COUNTY, ILLINOIS AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2017 S-l supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Effingham
County, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of
Effingham County; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Effingham County Board to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EFFINGHAM COUNTY BOARD OF EFFINGHAM
COUNTY:
Section 1.   That the 2017 S-l supplement to the Code of Ordinances of
Effingham County as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Effingham County Board and the Clerk of Effingham
County is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy
of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Effingham County Board of Effingham County, Illinois
on October 16, 2017.
MOTION  Lloyd Foster             SECOND  Joe Thoele
                                       ATTEST:
James Niemann /s/           Kerry J. Hirtzel /s/
James Niemann, Chairman               Kerry J. Hirtzel
Effingham County Board Clerk               Effingham County
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the County of Effingham shall be designated as
the code of Effingham County, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD.  The County Board of Effingham County.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of Effingham County Board.
   COUNTY. Effingham County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Effingham County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   DISTRICT. A County Board district established as provided in this code.
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   FEE or FEES. A sum of money charged by the county for carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. For the county, shall begin on December 1 of each year and end
on November 30 of the following year (see 65 ILCS 5/1-1-2(5))
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or mission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY. The holidays as authorized and recognized by the County Board
in the employee agreement.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MEMBER or BOARD MEMBER. A person elected to serve on the County Board.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT and NEGLIGENTLY. Import a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act of omission as a
prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the county or any act or thing repugnant to or creating a hazard
to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a county
officer or employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed
by the words “of the county” and shall be taken to mean the officer or employee
of this county having the title mentioned or performing the duties indicated.
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the County Board to impose such a fine or penalty on such officer
or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty.
   OFFICIAL TIME. Central standard time shall be the official time for the
transaction of county business, except during applicable daylight savings time
set by national or state standards when the official time shall be advanced one
hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other
premises maintained by or at the expense of the county shall be set and run at
the OFFICIAL TIME prescribed by this definition.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the
Effingham County. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in
the employ of a county as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   RETAILER. Relates to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
small quantities direct to the consumer.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The county code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
   TOWNSHIP or TOWN. Shall apply interchangeably to the type of government
organization established in accordance with the provisions of the Township Law
of 1874 (see 10 ILCS 5/1-3).
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Relates to the sale of goods, merchandise,
articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of
resale.
   WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Commerce
Security Act, 5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq., except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
(Prior Code, § 1-1-16)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the
Chairperson and the County Board may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the county shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the County Board.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the county; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the County
Board or a certain county officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the county. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The county shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying
      all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
county for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
32.   COUNTY BOARD
      
33.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
34.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
35.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
36.   TAX AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
30.01   County Board standing committees
   
30.02   Welfare Services Committee disbanded
   
30.03   Jurors Commission dissolved
   
30.04   Facility use requirements
   
30.05   Historic Preservation Study Committee
Courthouse Regulations
   
30.20   Purpose
   
30.21   Unlawful possession
   
30.22   Exceptions
   
30.23   Soliciting and peddling regulations; county buildings
   
30.24   County buildings designated smoke-free
 
   
30.99   Penalty
**** MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ****
§ 30.01 COUNTY BOARD STANDING COMMITTEES.
   The Legislative and Tax and Finance standing committees will be committees
of the whole Board.
(Ord. passed 3-15-2010)
§ 30.02 WELFARE SERVICES COMMITTEE DISBANDED.
   The County Welfare Services Committee will disband following the adoption
and filing of this section.
(Ord. 06-49, passed 7-17-2006)
§ 30.03 JURORS COMMISSION DISSOLVED.
   The County Jurors Commission will dissolve following the adoption and filing
of this section.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009)
§ 30.04 FACILITY USE REQUIREMENTS.
   Any individual or group not presenting a certificate of insurance listing
their scheduled special event and the county as an additional insured, prior to
the event, will result in the cancellation of the use of the county property.
(Ord. 11-45, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 30.05 HISTORIC PRESERVATION STUDY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Establishment. The County Historic Preservation Study Committee
(hereinafter referred to as the Study Committee) is hereby established.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the Study Committee shall be to investigate
the power and authority that can be given to a preservation commission and to
prepare a report to the County Board, including a recommendation concerning the
need for a preservation ordinance.
   (C)   Members.
      (1)   Membership. The Study Committee shall include nine members,
nominated and ratified by the County Board. Its Chairperson shall be appointed
by the Study Committee.
         (a)   The Study Committee must include at least one representative
from each of the following organizations:
            1.   County Cultural Center and Museum Association;
            2.   County Historical Society;
            3.   South Central Illinois Regional Planning Commission; and
            4.   County Board.
         (b)   The remaining members of the Study Committee shall be persons
with a demonstrated interest in prehistory, history or architecture.
         (c)   The members of the Study Committee shall not be compensated with
a mileage allowance for travel or per diem payments for meetings.
      (2)   Members. Should a member resign or fail to fulfill his or her
obligations, a successor will be named by the County Board. The Study Committee
will appoint a Chairperson.
   (D)   Powers of the Study Committee. The Study Committee is hereby
authorized:
      (1)   To review existing surveys and/or prepare a new preliminary survey
of historic resources in the county;
      (2)   To determine the need for a Preservation Commission, based on the
results of the survey;
      (3)   Upon recommendation of a Preservation Commission, to recommend
either specific landmarks and districts or a process for identification and
designation of landmarks and districts;
      (4)   To prepare an ordinance;
      (5)   To recommend incentives to encourage preservation; and
      (6)   To prepare a report to the County Board in a timely manner.
   (E)   Report of findings.
      (1)   The Study Committee shall report its initial findings and
recommendations to the County Board within one year of its appointment.
      (2)   The report of the Study Committee shall be submitted for review and
comment to:
         (a)   The County Board;
         (b)   South Central Illinois Regional Planning Commission;
         (c)   Each existing municipal landmark or preservation commission in
the county; and
         (d)   The State Department of Natural Resources.
   (F)   Hearings and action.
      (1)   Public hearings shall be held in at least two locations within 60
days after submission of the report. The hearings, after 15 days published
notice, may be held by either the County Board or the Study Committee. Within
45 days of the close of the hearings, the Study Committee shall send a final
report and a recommended ordinance, if it so advocates, to the County Board.
      (2)   The Board has 60 days to then take one of three possible actions on
the report. It may: accept the report and enact the ordinance without changes;
refer the matter back to the Study Committee
with suggested refinements for return within 60 days; or reject the report and
ordinance by resolution stating its reason for such action. Following this
final action by the County Board, the Study Committee shall cease to exist.
(Ord. passed 2-16-2010)
**** COURTHOUSE REGULATIONS ****
§ 30.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure the protection and safety of the
general public while inside any buildings owned or operated by and for the
county. Due to the general adversarial nature of both civil and criminal
proceedings at the courthouse, as well as the presence of prisoners pending
criminal prosecution, a potential danger to the public exists that must be
protected by the county.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 30.21 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION.
   No person shall carry or possess on or about his or her person while inside
any buildings owned or operated by the county, any pistol, revolver, stun gun,
laser or other firearms, bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sandbag, metal
knuckles or any switchblade knife or razor, Bowie knife or dirk knife, or dirk,
or dagger, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.22 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to any officer of a Police Department or any
Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff or constable of the state or United States Marshal
while acting in his or her official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3)
§ 30.23 SOLICITING AND PEDDLING REGULATIONS; COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   There shall be no selling, soliciting, peddling, distribution or collection
in connection with produce, foodstuffs, cosmetics, jewelry, newspapers,
magazines, fund drives or any other nature, within any building owned, leased
or rented by the county, other than in the conduct of officially approved
county business by any county employee or member of the general public.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.24 COUNTY BUILDINGS DESIGNATED SMOKE-FREE.
   Smoking shall not be permitted in any portion of any building owned and/or
operated by the county.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates the terms of §§
30.20 through
30.24 shall be guilty of a petty offense punishable by a fine not to exceed
$500.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a violation of the terms of §§
30.20 through
30.24, the weapon possessed by the offender shall be confiscated by the trial
court or appropriate authorities.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6)
CHAPTER 31: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Mutual Aid System Agreement
   
31.01   Purpose
   
31.02   Definitions
   
31.03   Authority and action to effect mutual aid
   
31.04   Incident management system
   
31.05   Compensation for aid
   
31.06   Insurance
   
31.07   Indemnification
   
31.08   Non-liability for failure to render aid
   
31.09   Term
   
31.10   Effectiveness
   
31.11   Binding effect
   
31.12   Validity
   
31.13   Notices
   
31.14   Governing law
   
31.15   Execution in counterparts
   
31.16   Executive Board of IEMMAS
   
31.17   Duties of the Executive Board
   
31.18   Rules and procedures
   
31.19   Amendments
Emergency Management; EMA
   
31.30   Purpose; authority
   
31.31   Limitations
   
31.32   Definitions
   
31.33   Functions; statutory responsibilities
   
31.34   EMA Director; office
   
31.35   Compensation; state reimbursement
   
31.36   Local disaster declarations
   
31.37   Testing of disaster warning devices
   
31.38   Mutual aid between political subdivisions
   
31.39   Immunity
   
31.40   Authority to accept services, gifts, grants or loans
   
31.41   Orders, rules and regulations
   
31.42   Utilization of existing agency, facilities and personnel
   
31.43   Emergency powers
   
31.44   Oath
   
31.45   No private liability
   
31.46   Prohibition of political activity
Cross-reference:
   Ground ambulance service, see
Ch. 94
**** MUTUAL AID SYSTEM AGREEMENT ****
§ 31.01 PURPOSE.
   It is recognized and acknowledged that in certain situations, such as, but
not limited to, emergencies, natural disasters and human-made catastrophes, the
use of an individual member unit’s personnel and equipment to perform functions
outside the territorial limits of the member unit is desirable and necessary to
preserve and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public. It is
further expressly acknowledged that in certain situations, such as the
aforementioned, the use of other member unit’s personnel and equipment to
perform functions within the territorial limits of a member unit is desirable
and necessary to preserve and protect the health, safety and welfare of the
public. Further, it is acknowledged that coordination of mutual aid through the
state emergency management mutual aid system is desirable for the effective and
efficient provision of mutual aid.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-1)
§ 31.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFECTED/STRICKEN UNIT. A member unit which requests aid through the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency in the event of an emergency.
   AIDING UNIT. A member unit furnishing equipment, personnel and/or services
to an affected/stricken unit.
   EMERGENCY/DISASTER. An occurrence or condition in a member unit’s
territorial jurisdiction which results in a situation of such magnitude and/or
consequence that it cannot be adequately handled by the affected/stricken unit
and such that a member unit determines the necessity and advisability of
requesting aid.
   EXECUTIVE BOARD. The governing body of IEMMAS comprised of the officers and
Regional VP, Past President of the State Emergency Services Management
Association or their representatives.
   IEMA REGIONS. The geographically associated member units or unit which have
been grouped for operational efficiency and representation of those member
units.
   ILLINOIS EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT MUTUAL AID SYSTEM. Hereinafter referred to as
IEMMAS, a definite and prearranged plan whereby response and assistance is
provided to an affected/stricken unit by the aiding unit(s) in accordance with
the system established and maintained by the IEMMAS member units, and amended
from time to time.
   MEMBER UNIT. A unit of local government, including, but not limited to, a
city or county having an Emergency Management Program accredited/certified by
the state, or an intergovernmental agency and the units of which the
intergovernmental agency is comprised which is a party to the IEMMAS Agreement
and has been appropriately authorized by the governing body to enter into such
agreement, and to comply with the rules and regulations of IEMMAS.
   TRAINING. The regular scheduled practice of emergency procedures during non-
emergency drills/exercise to implement the necessary joint operations of
IEMMAS.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-2)
§ 31.03 AUTHORITY AND ACTION TO EFFECT MUTUAL AID.
   (A)   The member units hereby authorize and direct their respective
Emergency Manager/Coordinator or his or her designee to take necessary and
proper action to render and/or request mutual aid from the other member units
in accordance with the policies and procedures established and maintained by
the IEMMAS member units. The aid rendered shall be to the extent of available
personnel and equipment not required for adequate protection of the territorial
limits of the aiding unit. The judgment of the Emergency Manager/Coordinator,
or his or her designee, of the aiding unit shall be final as to the personnel
and equipment available to render aid.
   (B)   Whenever an emergency/disaster occurs and conditions are such that the
Emergency Manager/Coordinator, or his or her designee, of the affected/stricken
unit determines it advisable to request aid pursuant to this agreement he or
she shall notify IEMA of the nature and location of the emergency/disaster and
the type and amount of equipment and personnel and/or services requested from
the IEMMAS.
   (C)   The Emergency Manager/Coordinator, or his or her designee, of the
aiding unit shall take the following action immediately upon being requested
for aid:
      (1)   Establish the incident command system at the site of the emergency;
      (2)   Determine what equipment, personnel and/or services is requested
according to the system maintained by IEMMAS;
      (3)   Determine if the requested equipment, personnel and/or services can
be committed in response to the request from the affected/stricken unit;
      (4)   Dispatch immediately the requested equipment, personnel and/or
services, to the extent available, to the location of the emergency reported by
the affected/stricken unit in accordance with the procedures of IEMMAS; and
      (5)   Notify the affected/stricken unit if any or all of the requested
equipment, personnel and/or services cannot be provided.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-3)
§ 31.04 INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The national incident management system shall be the standard under which
this agreement shall function. The purpose of the incident management system
shall be to provide structure and coordination to the management of emergency
incident operations in order to provide for the safety and health of emergency
service organization personnel and other persons involved in those activities.
Personnel dispatched to aid a party pursuant to this agreement shall remain
employees of the aiding unit. Personnel rendering aid shall report for
direction and assignment at the scene of the emergency to the State Incident
Commander at the Forward Command Post. The party rendering aid shall at all
times have the right to withdraw any and all aid upon the order of its
Emergency Manager/Coordinator or his or her designee; provided, however, that
the party withdrawing such aid shall notify the State Incident Commander at the
Forward Command Post of the withdrawal of such aid and the extent of such
withdrawal.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-4)
§ 31.05 COMPENSATION FOR AID.
   Equipment, personnel and/or services provided pursuant to this agreement
shall be at no charge to the party requesting aid; however, any expenses
recoverable from third parties shall be equitably distributed among responding
parties. Nothing herein shall operate to bar any recovery of funds from any
state or federal agency under any existing statutes.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-5)
§ 31.06 INSURANCE.
   Each party hereto shall procure and maintain, at its sole and exclusive
expense, insurance coverage, including: personal injury, property damage. No
party hereto shall have any obligation to provide or extend insurance coverage
for any of the items enumerated herein to any other party hereto or its
personnel. The state shall provide worker’s compensation and comprehensive
liability insurance. Upon request, member units shall provide such evidence as
herein provided to the IEMMAS members.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-6)
§ 31.07 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Each party hereto agrees to waive all claims against all other parties
hereto for any loss, damage, personal injury or death occurring in consequence
of the performance of this mutual aid agreement; provided, however, that such
claim is not a result of gross negligence or willful misconduct by a party
hereto or its personnel.
   (B)   Each party requesting or providing aid pursuant to this agreement
hereby expressly agrees to hold harmless, indemnify and defend the party
rendering aid and its personnel from any and all claims, demands, liability,
losses, suits in law or in equity which are made by a third party. This
indemnity shall include attorney fees and costs that may arise from providing
aid pursuant to this agreement; provided, however, that all employee benefits,
wage and disability payments, pensions, worker’s compensation claims, damage to
or destruction of equipment and clothing, and medical expenses of the party
rendering aid shall be the sold and exclusive responsibility of the respective
party for its employees, provided, however, that such claims made by a third
party are not the result of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part
of the party rendering aid.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-7)
§ 31.08 NON-LIABILITY FOR FAILURE TO RENDER AID.
   (A)   The rendering of assistance under the terms of this agreement shall
not be mandatory if local conditions of the aiding unit prohibit response. It
is the responsibility of the aiding unit to immediately notify the affected/
stricken unit of the aiding unit’s inability to respond; however, failure to
immediately notify the affected/stricken unit of such inability to respond
shall not constitute evidence of noncompliance with the terms of this section
and no liability may be assigned.
   (B)   No liability of any kind or nature shall be attributed to or be
assumed, whether expressly or implied, by a party hereto, its duly authorized
agents and personnel, for failure or refusal to render aid. Nor shall there be
any liability of a party for withdrawal of aid once provided pursuant to the
terms of this agreement.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-8)
§ 31.09 TERM.
   (A)   This agreement shall be in effect for a term of one year from the date
of signature hereof and shall automatically renew for successive one year terms
unless terminated in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Any party hereto may terminate its participation in this agreement at
any time, provided that the party wishing to terminate its participation in
this agreement shall give written notice to the IEMMAS specifying the date of
termination, such notice to be given at least 90 calendar days prior to the
specified date of termination of participation. The written notice provided
herein shall be given by personal delivery, registered mail or certified mail.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-9)
§ 31.10 EFFECTIVENESS.
   This agreement shall be in full force and effective upon approval by the
parties hereto in the manner provided by law and upon proper execution hereof.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-10)
§ 31.11 BINDING EFFECT.
   This agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any
successor entity which may assume the obligations of any party hereto;
provided, however, that this agreement may not be assigned by a member unit
without prior written consent of the parties hereto; and this agreement shall
not be assigned by IEMMAS without prior written consent of the parties hereto.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-11)
§ 31.12 VALIDITY.
   The invalidity of any provision of this agreement shall not render invalid
any other provision. If, for any reason, any provision of this agreement is
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable,
that provision shall be deemed severable and this agreement may be enforced
with that provision severed or modified by court order.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-12)
§ 31.13 NOTICES.
   All notices hereunder shall be in writing and shall be served personally, by
registered mail or certified mail to the parties at such addresses as may be
designated from time to time on the IEMMAS mailing lists or, to other such
addresses as shall be agreed upon.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-13)
§ 31.14 GOVERNING LAW.
   This agreement shall be governed, interpreted and construed in accordance
with the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-14)
§ 31.15 EXECUTION IN COUNTERPARTS.
   This agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts or duplicate
originals, each of which shall constitute and be deemed as one and the same
document.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-15)
§ 31.16 EXECUTIVE BOARD OF IEMMAS.
   An Executive Board of IESMA is hereby identified as the authority to
consider, adopt and amend from time to time, as needed, rules, procedures, by-
laws and any other matters deemed necessary. The Executive Board shall consist
of a member elected from each region within IESMA who shall serve as the voting
representative of said region on IEMMAS matters, and may appoint a designee to
serve temporarily in his or her stead. Such designee shall be from within the
respective region and shall have all rights and privileges attendant to a
representative of that region. The IESMA Executive Board as provided for in the
by-laws shall coordinate the activities of the IEMMAS.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-16)
§ 31.17 DUTIES OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD.
   The Executive Board shall meet regularly to conduct business and to consider
and publish the rules and procedures of the IEMMAS.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-17)
§ 31.18 RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   Rules, procedures of the IEMMAS shall be established by the Executive Board
as deemed necessary from time to time for the purpose of administrative
functions, the exchange of information and the common welfare of the IEMMAS.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-18)
§ 31.19 AMENDMENTS.
   This agreement may only be amended by written consent of all the parties
hereto. This shall not preclude the amendment of rules, procedures of the
IEMMAS as established by the Executive Board to this agreement. The undersigned
unit of local government or public agency hereby has adopted, and subscribes
to, and approves this mutual aid system agreement to which this signature page
will be attached, and agrees to be a party thereto and be bound by the terms
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-19)
**** EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; EMA ****
§ 31.30 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created within the county governmental organization an
entity to be known as the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, hereinafter
referred to as the EMA. This entity shall be responsible for the coordination
of all emergency management programs within its jurisdiction and with private
organizations, or other political subdivisions, the state and federal
government in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305), hereinafter “the Act”.
   (B)   The purpose of the EMA shall be the coordination of emergency services
functions, which may be necessary for or proper to prevent, minimize, repair
and alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural or technological
causes.
   (C)   The EMA shall consist of the Director and such additional members as
may be selected by the Director and approved by the County Board.
   (D)   All emergency service functions of the EMA shall at all times be in
accordance with the provisions of the Act, being 20 ILCS 3305 and all rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.31 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to:
   (A)   Interfere with the course or conduct of a labor dispute, except that
actions otherwise authorized by this subchapter or other laws may be taken when
necessary to mitigate imminent or existing danger to public health or safety;
   (B)   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of public affairs; but
any communications facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations, wire services and newspapers) may be requested
to transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster;
   (C)   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or of any
personnel thereof, when on active duty; but state and political subdivision
emergency operations plans shall place reliance upon the forces available for
performance of functions related to emergency management; or
   (D)   Limit, modify or abridge the authority of the Governor to proclaim
martial law or exercise any other powers vested in him or her under the
Constitution, statutes or common law of this state, independent of or in
conjunction with any provisions of this Act, being 20 ILCS 3305; limit any home
rule unit; or prohibit any contract or association pursuant to Article VII, §
10 of the Illinois Constitution.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF ELECTED OFFICIAL. Chairperson of the County Board, supervisor of a
township if the township is in a county having a population of more than
2,000,000, mayor of a city or incorporated town, president of a village, or in
their absence or disability, the interim successor as established pursuant to §
7 of the Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act.
   DIRECTOR. The staff assistant to the chief elected official of political
subdivision with the duty of coordinating the emergency management programs of
that political subdivision.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods of
severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot or hostile military or paramilitary
action.
   DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE. A planned event designed specifically to
simulate an actual disaster which will provide emergency operations training
for emergency response personnel. Actual response by EMA volunteers to local
emergency situations not qualifying as disasters, as defined in this section,
is considered a DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE; provided, however, that performance
of the usual and customary emergency functions of a political subdivision
(e.g., police, fire or emergency medical services) is not included within this
definition of a DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The efforts of the state and the political
subdivisions to develop, plan, analyze, conduct, implement and maintain
programs for disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY. The agency established by ordinance within a
political subdivision to coordinate the emergency management program within
that political subdivision and with private organizations, other political
subdivisions, the state and federal governments.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN. The written plan of the state and political
subdivisions describing the organization, mission and functions of the
government and supporting services for responding to and recovering from
disasters.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES. The coordination of such functions by the state and its
political subdivision, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize,
repair and alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural or
technological causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting
services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering,
warning services, communications, radiological, chemical and other special
weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken or threatened areas,
emergency assigned functions of plant protection, temporary restoration of
public utility services and other functions related to civilian protection,
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to protecting life
or property.
   ILLINOIS EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY or IEMA. The agency established by this
Act, being 20 ILCS 3305 within the executive branch of state government
responsible for coordination of the overall emergency management program of the
state and with private organizations, political subdivisions and the federal
government.
   MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM. The utilization of personnel to be dispatched by the
Governor or, if he or she so authorizes the Director, by the Director, to
supplement local political subdivisions for emergency management programs in
response to a disaster.
   MUNICIPALITY. Any city, village and incorporated town.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Any county, city, village, incorporated town or
township if the township is in a county having a population of more than
2,000,000.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.33 FUNCTIONS; STATUTORY RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Each county shall maintain an EMA, which has jurisdiction over and
serves the entire county, except as otherwise provided in the Act, being 20
ILCS 3305.
   (B)   The County EMA shall not have jurisdiction within a political
subdivision that has its own emergency services and disaster agency, but shall
cooperate with the emergency services and disaster agency of a city, village or
incorporated town within their borders.
   (C)   The County EMA shall work with the liaison appointed by each
municipality within its jurisdiction which is not required to and does not have
an emergency services and disaster agency in order to facilitate the
cooperation and protection of that municipality with the County EMA in which it
is located in the work of disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and
recovery.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the county shall notify the State
Emergency Management Agency of the manner in which the political subdivision is
providing or securing emergency management, identify the executive head of the
EMA and furnish additional information relating thereto as the State Emergency
Management Agency requires.
   (E)   The EMA shall prepare and keep current an emergency operations plan
for its geographic boundaries. It shall be submitted to the IEMA for review and
approval, in accordance with 20 ILCS 3305/10(g).
   (F)   The EMA shall prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in
written form a clear and complete statement of the emergency responsibilities
of all local departments and officials and of the disaster chain of command.
   (G)   The EMA shall coordinate emergency management functions within the
territorial limits of the political subdivision within which it is organized as
are prescribed in and by the State Emergency Operations Plan, and programs,
orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the State Emergency
Management Agency and in addition, shall conduct such functions outside of
those territorial limits as may be required pursuant to such mutual aid
agreements and compacts as are entered into under 20 ILCS 3305/6(c)(5).
   (H)   The county upon advice from the EMA may enter into contracts and incur
obligations necessary to place it in a position effectively to combat such
disasters in order to protect the health and safety of persons and to protect
property, and to provide emergency assistance to victims of those vested under
this section in the light of the exigencies of the disaster and, excepting
mandatory constitutional requirements, without regard to the procedures and
formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of public
work, entering into contracts, the incurring of obligations, the employment of
temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the purchases of supplies and
materials, and the appropriation, expenditure and disposition of public funds
and property.
   (I)   The EMA personnel who, while engaged in a disaster or disaster
training exercise, suffer disease, injury or death, shall, for the purposes of
benefits under Worker’s Compensation Act, being 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq. or
Workers’ Occupational Diseases Act, being 820 ILCS 310/1 et seq., only, be
deemed to be employees of the state, if: the claimant is duly qualified and
enrolled (sworn in) as a volunteer of the State Emergency Management Agency or
an emergency services and disaster agency accredited by the State Emergency
Management Agency; and if the claimant was participating in an actual disaster
as defined in 20 ILCS 3305/4 or the exercise participated in was specifically
and expressly approved by the State Emergency Management Agency. The State
Emergency Management Agency shall use the same criteria for approving an
exercise and utilizing state volunteers as required for any political
subdivision. The computation of benefits payable under either of those Acts
shall be based on the income commensurate with comparable state employees doing
the same type work or income from the person’s regular employment, whichever is
greater.
   (J)   Prior to conducting a disaster training exercise, the chief elected
official of the county or his or her designee shall provide area media with
written notification of the disaster training exercise. Such notification shall
indicate that information relating to the disaster training exercise shall not
be released to the public until commencement of the exercise. The notification
shall also contain a request that the notice be so posted to ensure that all
relevant media personnel are advised of the disaster training exercise before
it begins. During the conduct of such disaster training exercise, all messages,
two-way radio communications, briefings, status reports, news releases and
other oral or written communications shall begin and end with the following
statement. “This is an exercise message”.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.34 EMA DIRECTOR; OFFICE.
   (A)   The EMA shall have a Director who shall be appointed by the chief
elected official of the county in the same manner as are the heads of regular
governmental departments.
   (B)   The EMA Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, training and operation of the EMA, subject to the
direction and control of that chief elected official.
   (C)   The EMA shall have an office and the county is authorized to designate
space in a county building, or elsewhere, as may be provided for the EMA.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.35 COMPENSATION; STATE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   EMA members who are paid employees or officers of the county, if
called for training by the State Director, shall receive for the time spent in
such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members
who are not such county employees or officers shall receive for such training
such compensation as may be established by the County Board.
   (B)   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund,
any reimbursement by the state to the county for expenses incident to training
members of the EMA prescribed by the State Director, compensation for services
and expenses of members of a Mobile Support Director, compensation for services
and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving outside the
county in response to a call by the Governor of State Director, as provided by
law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to EMA activities
as provided by law.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.36 LOCAL DISASTER DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   A local disaster may be declared only by the chief elected official of
the county, or his or her Interim Executive Succession Act (5 ILCS 275/7 et
seq.). It shall not be continued or renewed for a period of the county. Any
order or proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a local disaster
shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with
the County Clerk.
   (B)   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster is to activate the
emergency operations plan of the county and to authorize the furnishing of aid
and assistance thereunder.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.37 TESTING OF DISASTER WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   The EMA shall be allowed to test disaster warning devices including
outdoor warning sirens on the first Tuesday of each month at 10:00 a.m.
   (B)   The EMA may also test disaster-warning devices including outdoor
warning sirens during disaster training exercises that are specifically and
expressly approved in advance by the State Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.38 MUTUAL AID BETWEEN POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The EMA Director may, in collaboration with other public agencies
within his or her immediate vicinity, develop or cause to be developed mutual
aid arrangements with other political subdivisions within this state for
reciprocal disaster response and recovery assistance in case a disaster is too
great to be dealt with unassisted. Such mutual aid shall not, however, be
effective unless and until approved by each of such political subdivisions.
Such arrangements shall be consistent with the state emergency operations plan
and state emergency management program, and in the event of such a disaster as
described in § 4 of the Act being 20 ILCS 3305/4, it shall be the duty of the
EMA to render assistance in accordance with the provisions of such mutual aid
arrangements.
   (B)   The EMA Director may, subject to the approval of the Director of the
State Emergency Management Agency, assist in the negotiation of mutual aid
agreements between this and other states.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.39 IMMUNITY.
   (A)   Neither the state, any political subdivision of the state, nor, except
in cases of negligence or willful misconduct, the Governor, the Director, the
chief elected official of a political subdivision, or the agents, employees or
representatives of any of them, engaged in any emergency management response or
recovery activities, while complying with or attempting to comply with the Act,
being 20 ILCS 3305 or any rule or regulations promulgated pursuant to the Act,
being 20 ILCS 3305 is liable for the death of or any injury to persons, or
damage to property, as a result of such activity.
   (B)   This section does not, however, apply to political subdivisions and
chief elected officials required to maintain emergency services and disaster
agencies that are not in compliance with § 10 of the Act being 20 ILCS 3305/10,
notwithstanding provisions of any other laws. This section does not, however,
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this Act, being 20 ILCS 3305 under the Worker’s
Compensation Act, being 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq., or the Worker’s Occupational
Diseases Act, being 820 ILCS 310/1 et seq., or under any pension law, affect
the right of any such person to receive any benefits or compensation under any
Act of Congress.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.40 AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS.
   (A)   Whenever the federal government or any agency or officer thereof or
whenever any person, firm or corporation shall offer to the county, services,
equipment, supplies, materials or funds by way of gift or grant, for purposes
of emergency management, the county, acting through the chief elected official,
may accept such offer and upon such acceptance, may authorize an officer of the
county to receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds on
behalf of the county.
   (B)   The county, acting through the chief elected official, shall have the
authority to establish a special fund if needed to accept such gifts, grants or
loans. The establishment of such a special fund shall be in accordance with all
county ordinances relating to this subject matter and the laws of the state.
All services, gifts, grants or loans accepted pursuant to the section shall be
subject to county auditing procedures.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.41 ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The County Board shall have the authority to promulgate orders, rules
and regulations upon the advice of the EMA Director for the purpose of
emergency management and in times of disaster.
   (B)   The EMA shall execute and enforce such orders, rules and regulations
as may be made by the Governor under the authority of the Act, being 20 ILCS
3305. The EMA shall have available for inspection at its office all orders,
rules and regulations made by the Governor, or under the Governor’s authority
and which have provided by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.42 UTILIZATION OF EXISTING AGENCY, FACILITIES AND PERSONNEL.
   The EMA acting through its chief elected official may utilize the services,
equipment, supplies and facilities of existing departments, offices and
agencies within its jurisdiction, to the maximum extent practicable, and the
officers and personnel of all such departments, offices and agencies are
directed, upon request, to cooperate with and extend such services and
facilities as may be needed.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.43 EMERGENCY POWERS.
   In addition to any other emergency powers conferred upon the chief elected
official of the county or his or her designee, he or she may:
   (A)   Suspend the provisions of any regulatory ordinance prescribing
procedures for the conduct of city or county business, or the orders or
regulations of any city or county department if compliance with the provisions
of the statute, order or regulation would prevent, or substantially impede or
delay action necessary to cope with the disaster or emergency;
   (B)   Use all the resources of the county as reasonably necessary to cope
with the disaster or emergency;
   (C)   Transfer personnel or alter the functions of city or county
departments and offices or units of them for the purpose of performing or
facilitating the performance of disaster or emergency services;
   (D)   Subject to any applicable requirements for compensation, commandeer or
utilize any private property if considered necessary to cope with the disaster
or emergency;
   (E)   Request the relocation of all or part of the population from any
stricken or threatened area in the county if relocation is considered necessary
for the preservation of life or for other disaster mitigation purposes;
   (F)   Prescribe routes, modes of transportation and destinations in
connection with necessary relocation;
   (G)   Control ingress to and egress from a disaster area, the movement of
persons within the area and the occupancy of remises in it;
   (H)   Suspend or limit the sale, dispensing or transportation of alcoholic
beverages, firearms, ammunition, explosives and combustibles;
   (I)   Make provisions for the availability and use of temporary emergency
housing;
   (J)   Impose a curfew upon all or any portion of the county thereby
requiring all persons in such designated and restricted curfew areas to remove
themselves from public property, streets, alleys, sidewalks, thoroughfares,
vehicle parking areas or other public places. Physicians, nurses and
paramedical personnel performing essential medical services, utility personnel
maintaining essential public services, firefighters, members of the news media
upon showing of authorized press cards, emergency volunteers, and county, city
and state authorized law enforcement officers, and emergency management
personnel may be exempted from such curfew. The curfew may be applicable to any
such hour of the day or night as the chief elected official of the county deems
necessary in the interest of public safety and welfare;
   (K)   Allocate, ration or distribute food, water, fuel, clothing and other
items deemed necessary;
   (L)   The chief elected official of the county may obtain vital supplies,
equipment and other properties found lacking and needed for the protection of
the health, life and property of the people and bind the city or county for the
fair value thereof; and
   (M)   The chief elected official of the county shall order emergency
management forces to the aid of other communities when required in accordance
with the statutes of the state and may request the state, or a political
subdivision of the state to send aid to the county to ease the disaster when
conditions in the county are beyond the control of local emergency management
forces.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.44 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the County EMA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the EMA Director:
      “I _________________ do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a member of any
political party of organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time I am affiliated with the Effingham County EMA, I will not advocate
nor become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence.”
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.45 NO PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants a license or privilege, or
otherwise permits the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of
such real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an
actual or impending disaster, or a disaster training exercise together with his
or her successors in interest, if any, shall not be civilly liable for
negligently causing death of, or injury to. Any person on or about such real
estate or premises under such license, privilege or other permission, or for
negligently causing loss of, or damage to, the property of such person.
   (B)   Any private person, firm or corporation and employees and agents of
such person, firm or corporation in the performance of a contract with, and
under the direction of the county under the provisions of the Act, being 20
ILCS 3305 shall not be civilly liable for causing the death of, or injury to,
any person or damage to any property except in the event of willful misconduct.
   (C)   Any private person, firm or corporation, and any employee or agent of
such person, firm or corporation, who renders assistance or advice at the
request of the county under the Act, being 20 ILCS 3305 during an actual or
impending disaster, shall not be civilly liable for causing the death of, or
injury to, any person or damage to any property except in the event of willful
misconduct.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 31.46 PROHIBITION OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   The EMA established by this subchapter shall not be employed directly or
indirectly by any person for political purposes.
(Ord. 08-93, passed 11-17-2008)
CHAPTER 32: COUNTY BOARD
Section
By-Laws of the County Board
   
32.001   Legal name
   
32.002   Regular meetings
   
32.003   Special meetings
   
32.004   Roll call
   
32.005   Minutes
   
32.006   Reports
   
32.007   Claims
   
32.008   Agenda
   
32.009   Vote
   
32.010   Standing committees
   
32.011   Action of committee; report
   
32.012   Appointment of Chairpersons of committees
   
32.013   Parliamentary law
   
32.014   By-laws amended
   
32.015   Appropriations
   
32.016   Bills; service, mileage
   
32.017   Presiding officer; appointments
   
32.018   Officers
   
32.019   Teleconference
County Board Chairperson
   
32.030   Election of Chairperson
   
32.031   Duties of the Chair
   
32.032   Vacancy in office of County Chairperson
   
32.033   Chairperson absent from meeting
   
32.034   Chairperson; removal of appointees
   
32.035   County representative designated by Chairperson
   
32.036   Expense claims
Members; Meetings
   
32.050   Election of County Board
   
32.051   Term; salary
   
32.052   Vacancy
   
32.053   Meetings; regular
   
32.054   Special meetings
   
32.055   Open meetings
   
32.056   Quorum; majority vote
   
32.057   Public comment standards; video rules
County Board Rules
   
32.070   Rules of the Board
Committees
   
32.085   Committees
   
32.086   Standing committees
   
32.087   Committee responsibilities
   
32.088   Specific duties of standing committees
   
32.089   Committee meetings
   
32.090   Special committees
   
32.091   Public notice
   
32.092   Procedure
   
32.093   County seal
Committee Attendance
   
32.105   Attendance requirements
   
32.106   Obligation of committee minutes to record all absences
   
32.107   Remedies for violating attendance policy
**** BY-LAWS OF THE COUNTY BOARD ****
§ 32.001 LEGAL NAME.
   The legal name of the governmental unit is the “Effingham County Board.”
Address: 101 N. 4th Street, Suite 301, Effingham, IL 62401.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.002 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular Board meeting dates shall be the third Monday of each month or the
day immediately following if the third Monday, is a holiday unless otherwise
adopted.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.003 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called when needed.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.004 ROLL CALL.
   There shall be a roll call at each meeting.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.005 MINUTES.
   Minutes of each Board meeting shall be examined by the Reports Committee and
approved at the next Board meeting. Deletions, corrections or additions will be
submitted for approval at the next regular Board meeting.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.006 REPORTS.
   The six-month report of the county officers shall be presented to the
Committee on Officers’ Reports two days prior to the County Board meeting date
for June and December.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.007 CLAIMS.
   All claims submitted to the county shall be sworn to and endorsed by the
proper committee.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.008 AGENDA.
   The Chairperson of the Board shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, an
agenda for each Board meeting. Items to be considered for agenda inclusion
shall be in the Board office two days prior to the meeting. Items may be added
to the agenda at the meeting with the approval of the Board. Provisions may be
made for miscellaneous items of business. The Chairperson may limit the time
that any one person may speak. All agendas are subject to the Open Meetings
Act, being 5 ILCS 120.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.009 VOTE.
   Every member present shall vote on each issue presented to the Board, unless
personally or professionally interested, or excused by the unanimous consent of
the Board.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.010 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   There shall be eight standing committees.
   (B)   Two of those committees shall be the “committees of the whole” Board,
each having a Chairperson, and all other Board members shall be members of that
committee. The purpose of these “committees of the whole” is to encourage full
participation and discussion by Board members on the issues before committees.
The County Board Chairperson shall appoint the Chairperson of each of these
committees, with the assistance of the Vice Chairperson.
   (C)   These committees of the whole Board shall be:
      (1)   Tax and Finance Committee of the Whole; and
      (2)   Legislative/Personnel Committee of the Whole.
   (D)   At each of these committees of the whole Board, five members would
need to be present to constitute a quorum.
   (E)   Six committees will not be committees of the whole Board, and will
have three members to be appointed by the Chairperson, with the assistance of
the Vice Chairperson. All Board members may attend and may participate, but
only committee members may vote. The Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson of
the County Board are members of these committees and may vote at these
committees in the absence of a quorum. The County Board Chairperson or Vice
Chairperson may vote at committee meetings in case of a tie on these
committees. (Example: A committee member may be absent, resulting in two Board
members being a quorum, with a tie occurring). If there is a tie in these
committees, the agenda item will be forwarded to the full Board without any
recommendations.
   (F)   These six committees are:
      (1)   Insurance;
      (2)   Public Safety;
      (3)   Building and Grounds;
      (4)   Health;
      (5)   Road and Bridge; and
      (6)   Reports.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.011 ACTION OF COMMITTEE; REPORT.
   The Chairperson of each committee shall give a brief report at the regular
Board meeting, of action taken by that committee since the last meeting.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.012 APPOINTMENT OF CHAIRPERSONS OF COMMITTEES.
   The Chairperson, with the assistance of the Vice Chairperson, shall appoint
a Chairperson to each of the Committees of the whole Board at the organization
meeting, subject to approval by members of the Board. Special Committees may be
appointed as the need dictates.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.013 PARLIAMENTARY LAW.
   Parliamentary law and Robert’s Rules of Order shall prevail at meetings of
the Board, unless otherwise specified herein.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.014 BY-LAWS AMENDED.
   These by-laws may be amended or suspended by a two-thirds majority of the
full Board.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.015 APPROPRIATIONS.
   Upon presentation of petitions to the County Board for appropriations for
bridges, or other major expenditures, by various townships, before the Board
may act, the petition shall be referred to the Road and Bridge Committee for
investigation.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.016 BILLS; SERVICE, MILEAGE.
   All bills for County Board service and mileage must give date of meeting and
service rendered.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.017 PRESIDING OFFICER; APPOINTMENTS.
   Appointments shall be made by the presiding officer of the County Board,
with the advice and consent of the County Board, unless otherwise provided by
the state statutes.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.018 OFFICERS.
   Board Officers shall consist of a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson, each to
be elected from the membership of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Vice
Chairperson to assist and work with the Chairperson in conducting the business
of the Board.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 32.019 TELECONFERENCE.
   Board members may participate in a Board meeting by teleconference if he or
she is unable to attend the meeting due to illness or an emergency.
(Ord. 13-44, passed 4-15-2013)
**** COUNTY BOARD CHAIRPERSON ****
§ 32.030 ELECTION OF CHAIRPERSON.
   The County Board shall, at its first meeting in the month following the
month in which County Board members are elected, choose one of its members as
Chairperson for a term of two years and at the same meeting, choose one of its
members as Vice Chairperson for a term of two years. The Vice Chairperson shall
serve in the place of the Chairperson at any meeting of the County Board in
which the Chairperson is not present. In case of the absence of the Chairperson
and the Vice Chairperson at any meeting, the members present shall choose one
of their number as temporary Chairperson. (See 55 ILCS 5/2-1003.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 32.031 DUTIES OF THE CHAIR.
   The County Board Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the County
Board. The Chair shall also be responsible for all personnel decisions
involving County Board employees including, but not limited to, hiring,
discipline, promotions, assignments and firing.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 32.032 VACANCY IN OFFICE OF COUNTY CHAIRPERSON.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Chairperson of the County Board,
the remaining members of the Board shall elect one of the members of the Board
to serve for the balance of the unexpired term of the Chairperson. See 55 ILCS
5/2-3009.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3) (Ord. 91-23, passed 6-28-1991)
§ 32.033 CHAIRPERSON ABSENT FROM MEETING.
   In case of the absence of the Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson at any
meeting, the County Clerk shall convene the meeting and the members present
shall choose one of their number as temporary Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
§ 32.034 CHAIRPERSON; REMOVAL OF APPOINTEES.
   Any person appointed by the Chairperson of the County Board, with the advice
and consent of the County Board, may be removed by the County Board Chairperson
with the advice and consent of the County Board. Any person appointed to a
position not requiring the advice and consent of the County Board may be
removed at any time by the Chairperson of the County Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-5)
§ 32.035 COUNTY REPRESENTATIVE DESIGNATED BY CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The County Board Chairperson shall be designated as the County Board
representative at any meeting or convention.
   (B)   The Chairperson may designate one or more county officials, Board
members or employees to assist or represent him or her in the transaction of
official county business at such convention or meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-6)
§ 32.036 EXPENSE CLAIMS.
   All persons designated by the County Board Chairperson to represent the
county shall obtain authorization from the Chairperson if they expect to have
their expenses reimbursed by the county.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-7)
**** MEMBERS; MEETINGS ****
§ 32.050 ELECTION OF COUNTY BOARD.
   The county shall be divided into nine districts consisting as nearly as
practical of equal numbers of residents as required by law after the federal
census.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 32.051 TERM; SALARY.
   The term of office for a member of the County Board shall be four years
unless otherwise provided by reapportionment process when a two-year term is
assigned to each district. The term of office shall commence on the first
Monday in December following their election. Five of the members to be elected
in November, 2002, shall serve for a period of four years, and four of said
members shall serve for two years; which of said members to serve four years
shall be determined by lot. The salaries for County Board members are
established in §§
34.008 and
34.009. See 55 ILCS 5/2-3009.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2) (Ord. 91-23, passed 6-28-1991)
§ 32.052 VACANCY.
   If a vacancy occurs on the County Board, the Chairperson of the County
Board, with the advice and consent of the County Board, shall, within 60 days
of the date the vacancy occurs, appoint some person, possessing the
qualifications of a Board member, to serve until the next election of County
Board members in the county at which time an election shall be held to fill the
vacancy for the unexpired term, according to 55 ILCS 5/2-3009)
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 32.053 MEETINGS; REGULAR.
   (A)   Monthly meetings of the County Board shall be held at 4:00 p.m. at the
County Board room on the third Monday of each month unless otherwise ordered.
   (B)   At each regular and special meeting which is open to the public,
members of the public and employees of the county shall be afforded time,
subject to reasonable constraints, to comment to or ask questions of the Board.
See 55 ILCS 5/2-1001.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-4)
§ 32.054 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board shall be held only when requested by at least
one-third of the members of the Board, which request shall be in writing, and
specifying the time and place of such meeting, upon reception of such meeting,
to each of the members of the Board. The Clerk shall also cause notice of such
meeting to be published in some newspaper printed in the county and presented
to the Clerk of the Board. See 55 ILCS 5/2-1001 and 5/2-1002.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-5)
§ 32.055 OPEN MEETINGS.
   The County Board shall sit with open doors, and all persons may attend their
meetings. The vote on all propositions to appropriate money from the County
Treasury shall be taken by “ayes” and “nays” and entered on the record of the
meeting. See 55 ILCS 5/2-1006.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-6)
§ 32.056 QUORUM; MAJORITY VOTE.
   A majority of the County Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any regular or any duly called special meeting, and
all questions which shall arise at meetings shall be determined by the vote of
the majority of the County Board members present, except as otherwise provided.
See 55 ILCS 5/2-1005.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-7)
§ 32.057 PUBLIC COMMENT STANDARDS; VIDEO RULES.
   (A)   Public comments.
      (1)   (a)   Sign up on a provided sheet which will be available at least
five minutes before the meeting up to the time the meeting is scheduled to
start.
         (b)   Speakers name or publicly recognized business or organization,
and topic must be printed on the sign up sheet.
      (2)   The signup sheet will become part of the public record for the
meeting.
      (3)   Speaking time will be limited to two to five minutes, per person,
based upon the number of people signed up, at the discretion of the chair. The
time may be extended at the discretion of the majority of sitting members upon
motion and vote.
      (4)   The chair may extend an invitation to other people to speak at the
chair’s discretion.
      (5)   The chair will make reasonable accommodations to insure fairness on
public addressing various aspects of issues.
      (6)   First come first serve on the list.
   (B)   Video rules.
      (1)   Video cameras larger than a standard cell phone must be on a
tripod, and set upon no closer than the fourth row of chairs on the north side
or other designated area.
      (2)   All cameras will be set up and taken down either before or after
the meeting is in session, no setup or take down is allowed during the meeting
as this may cause a disruption.
      (3)   In no event will a video camera or the actions of a person
capturing video, interfere with the vision of another person attending the
meeting, or impede their ability to participate in the meeting.
   (C)   Audio rules. All audio recordings shall be made without causing a
distraction of other people attending the meeting.
   (D)   General provisions. Anyone violating these provisions during an open
meeting in progress will be asked once to comply with the rules by the
chairperson of the meeting. If the person continues to fail to comply they will
be asked to leave the meeting. Failure to comply, with this request, will
result in the Sheriff removing the disruptive person.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 1-16-2018)
**** COUNTY BOARD RULES ****
§ 32.070 RULES OF THE BOARD.
   The following rules of order and procedures shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the County Board.
   (A)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business shall be as follows:
         (a)   Opening prayer and pledge of allegiance by the Board or someone;
         (b)   Call to order by the Chairperson of the Board;
         (c)   Roll call;
         (d)   Approve minutes, regular meeting;
         (e)   Officers’ reports;
         (f)   Resolution of budget amendments;
         (g)   Approve bills; County Board per diem and expenses;
         (h)   Unfinished business;
         (i)   Miscellaneous business;
         (j)   New business;
         (k)   Elected official reports;
         (l)   Committee reports;
         (m)   Correspondence;
         (n)   Executive session (if needed); and
         (o)   Adjourn to a certain fixed date.
      (2)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
by the Chair, with debate, subject to appeal.
   (B)   Duties of presiding officer. The presiding officer shall preserve
order and decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other
members, and shall decide all question of order, subject to appeal. In case of
any disturbances or disorderly conduct, the presiding officer shall have the
power to require the meeting room to be cleared. All resolutions and ordinances
originating outside of the County Board, its members of its committees, shall
be directed by the Chairperson of the Board to the proper committee for
consideration.
   (C)   Duties of members. While the presiding officer is putting the
questions, no member shall walk across or out of the meeting room. Every
member, prior to speaking or making a motion or seconding a motion, shall wait
until he or she is recognized by the Chairperson and address himself or herself
to the presiding officer and say, “Mr. Chairperson,” and then shall proceed
with his or her remarks. He or she shall confine himself or herself to the
question under debate, avoiding personalities and refrain from impugning the
motives of any member’s argument or remarks until further recognized by the
Chair. When two or more members seek recognition at the same time, the
presiding officer shall name the member who is first to speak. In addressing
the Board, members shall speak from their places.
   (D)   Permission to leave meeting. A member wishing to absent himself or
herself from the balance of a meeting while the meeting is in session, shall
first obtain consent from the Chairperson of the Board.
   (E)   Visitors. Any person not a member of the Board desiring to present a
subject to the Board may do so only at the discretion of the Chairperson.
   (F)   Resolutions and ordinances. Resolutions and ordinances shall be
submitted to the proper committee prior to consideration of the Board.
   (G)   Presentation of new business. When a member wishes to present a
communication, petition or other original matter, he or she shall send it to
the desk of the Clerk prior to the meeting, who shall read such matter when
reached in its proper order on the agenda. All proposals which call for the
expenditure of money or for the restructuring of county government shall not be
considered by the County Board until the proper committee has reviewed the
proposal.
   (H)   Call of member to order. A member, when called to order, by the Chair,
shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat, and the order
and ruling of the Chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to the
right to appeal.
   (I)   Appeals from decision of the Chair. Any member may appeal to the Board
for a ruling of the Chair, and if the appeal is seconded, the member making the
appeal may briefly state his or her reason for the same, and the Chair may
briefly explain his or her ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal,
and no other member shall participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then
put the majority of the members present and voting, vote “No”, the decision of
the Chair shall be overruled; otherwise it shall be sustained.
   (J)   Question of personal privilege. The right of a member to address the
Board on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character or motives are assailed, questioned or
impugned.
   (K)   Voting. Every member who shall be present when a question is stated
from the Chair shall vote thereon, unless he or she excused by the Board, or
unless he or she is personally interested in the question, in which case, he or
she shall not vote, except as otherwise provided by law. Members may opt out of
voting or vote present.
   (L)   Seconding of motions required; written motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the Board or in the committee unless it be seconded. When a
motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate,
and the proposer of the motion shall be entitled to the floor.
   (M)   Withdrawal of motions. After a motion or resolution is stated by the
Chairperson, it shall be deemed to be in possession of the Board, but it may be
withdrawn at any time before the vote on the motion is announced by the
Chairperson, by the mover with consent of his or her second.
   (N)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Board, by a majority of those present and
voting, may divide such questions.
   (O)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the minutes, the name of the member moving the same shall be entered
also.
   (P)   Taking and entering the voted; explanations of voted not permitted. If
any member requires it, the “Yeas” and “Nays” upon any question shall be taken
and entered in the minutes, but the yeas and nays upon any question shall not
be taken unless called for, prior to any vote on the question. When the Clerk
has commenced to call the roll for the taking of a vote of yeas and nays, all
debate on the question before the Board shall be deemed concluded, and during
the taking of the vote, no member shall be permitted to explain his or her
vote, but shall respond to the calling of his or her name by answering of yea
or nay, as the case may be.
   (Q)   Announcement and changes of vote. The result of all votes of yeas and
nays shall be announced by the Clerk, and no vote shall be changed after the
vote has been announced by the Chairperson.
   (R)   Precedence of motions. When a question is under debate, the following
motions shall be in order and shall have precedence over each other in order,
as listed:
      (1)   To adjourn to a day certain;
      (2)   To adjourn;
      (3)   To take a recess;
      (4)   To lay on the table;
      (5)   The previous question;
      (6)   To refer or commit;
      (7)   To amend;
      (8)   To defer or postpone to a time certain;
      (9)   To defer or postpone (without reference to time); and
      (10)   To defer or postpone indefinitely. Divisions (R)(2), (R)(4) and
(R)(5) above to be decided without debate.
   (S)   Motions to adjourn.
      (1)   Motion to adjourn the Board meetings shall always be in order,
except:
         (a)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the yeas and nays are being called;
         (c)   When the members are voting;
         (d)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
         (e)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
   (T)   Previous question. When the previous question is moved on the main
question and seconded, it shall be put on this form: “Shall the main question
now be put?”. If such motion be carried on further amendment, and all further
motions and debates shall be excluded, and the question put without delay upon
the pending amendments in proper order, and then upon the main question.
   (U)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table.
      (1)   A motion to simply lay a question on the table shall not be
debatable, but a motion to lay on the table and publish, or with any other
conditions, shall be subject to amendment and debate.
      (2)   A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the table may
be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was laid
upon the table, provided two-thirds of the members present and voting, vote
therefor.
      (3)   A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table,
shall apply to that motion or proposition only. An amendment to the main
question or other pending question may be laid on the table, and neither the
main motion nor such other pending question shall be affected thereby.
   (V)   Indefinite postponement; motion to defer or postpone without any
reference to time.
      (1)   When consideration of the motion or other proposition is postponed
indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting.
      (2)   A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question
to debate.
      (3)   A motion to defer or postpone without any reference to time, shall
not be construed as a motion to postpone indefinitely, but shall be considered
to be of the same general nature, and to possess the same general attributes so
far as applicable under these rules, as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to
a time certain.
   (W)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a certain committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (X)   Motion to amend.
      (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order.
On an amendment to strike out and insert, the paragraph to be amended shall
first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be stricken out, then
those to be inserted, and finally, the paragraph as it will stand if so amended
shall be read.
      (3)   An amendment to the main question or other pending question may be
referred to a committee, and neither the main question, nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   (Y)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment or such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time further amendment is admissible, and, if
accepted by the Board by a vote, shall entirely supersede such original
proposition or amendment, as the case may be, and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (Z)   Reconsideration.
      (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, having been once made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who
voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received
a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of such motion, then in such case, a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such
question to be reconsidered.
   (AA)   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order Revised. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of Robert’s
Rules of Order Revised shall govern the Board in all cases to which they are
applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of the
Board.
   (BB)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a roll call vote of a majority of the members of the
Board present and voting immediately upon the termination of the business
arising out of the event for which the rulers were suspended, these rules shall
again be put in effect without further vote of the Board.
   (CC)   Agenda. The Chairperson of the Board shall prepare, or cause to be
prepared, an agenda for all meetings and same shall be mailed to the members,
three days prior to the County Board meeting by the Clerk of the Board (see
Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120).
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
**** COMMITTEES ****
§ 32.085 COMMITTEES.
   Membership of all committees shall be as appointed by the Chairperson with
the advice and consent of the entire Board. There shall be two separate types
of committees: standing and special committees. The Chairperson shall be
members of all standing committees and may vote at any committee meeting in the
absence of a quorum.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 32.086 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   There shall be eight standing committees consisting of at least three
members each.
   (B)   Each committee shall contain at least one member of the minority party
as represented on the entire Board.
   (C)   Standing committees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Tax and Finance Committee of the whole;
      (2)   Public Buildings and Grounds;
      (3)   Public Safety;
      (4)   Legislative Committee of the whole;
      (5)   Road and Bridge;
      (6)   Health Services;
      (7)   Reports; and
      (8)   Insurance.
   (D)   Quorum: each committee shall have a majority of its members present in
order to conduct business.
   (E)   Notice shall be given in advance to the County Clerk of the time and
place of the meeting of all committees, and committee meetings shall be open to
the public. Any person desiring to attend a committee meeting shall not be
allowed to mingle with the members of the committee while the meeting is in
progress and any spectator attending a committee meeting may be privileged to
speak before the
committee by a vote of the majority of the committee members. The County Clerk
shall post the time and place of such meetings.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 32.087 COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   All committees shall have responsibilities as set forth herein, and as
delegated by the Chairperson.
   (B)   Each standing committee shall have the following duties:
      (1)   To act on all matters referred to the committee;
      (2)   To keep informed regarding appropriations and budget for activities
and offices under the jurisdiction of the committee and to help keep
expenditures within the budget;
      (3)   To review the proposed annual budget of the department or offices
overseen prior to their submission to the Finance Committee and the County
Board;
      (4)   To project the needs of the departments and offices overseen so
that the County Board may develop a comprehensive plan for the future of county
government; and
      (5)   To comply with all provisions of this subchapter regarding notice,
the disposition of business and the agenda.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
§ 32.088 SPECIFIC DUTIES OF STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Each standing committee shall have specific duties and
responsibilities as set forth below. In the event of a matter of new business
arising not specifically enumerated below the Board Chairperson shall determine
the appropriate committee.
   (B)   Standing committees shall have the duties and responsibilities
prescribed in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(9) below.
      (1)   Tax and Finance Committee; duties. The duties of the Tax and
Finance Committee shall be in the following areas:
         (a)   Tax assessment and levy and preparation of budget;
         (b)   Supervisor of assessments;
         (c)   Board of Review;
         (d)   Revenue sharing;
         (e)   Overseeing and accounting county funds with County Treasurer;
         (f)   Retirement - I.M.R.F.;
         (g)   Technology/GIS telephone;
         (h)   Veteran’s Assistance Commission;
         (i)   Data processing; bid letting of expenditures in excess of
$1,500; and
         (j)   Printing and stationery.
      (2)   Public Buildings and Grounds Committee; duties. The duties of the
Public Buildings and Grounds Committee shall be in the following areas:
         (a)   Government Center;
         (b)   Jail;
         (c)   Emergency Management Administration Building;
         (d)   A.D.A.;
         (e)   Cemeteries; and
         (f)   TREC Trail.
      (3)   Health Services Committee; duties. The duties of the Health
Services Committee shall be in the following areas:
         (a)   County Health and TB Department;
         (b)   Solid Waste ADA;
         (c)   Bovin TB;
         (d)   Weed control; and
         (e)   Nuclear waste.
      (4)   Reports Committee; duties. The duties of the Reports Committee
shall be in the following areas:
         (a)   Review minutes;
         (b)   Review officer’s reports;
         (c)   Release Closed Session Minutes; and
         (d)   Senior citizens.
      (5)   Public Safety Committee; duties. The duties of the Public Safety
Committee shall be in the following areas:
         (a)   E.M.A., Emergency Disaster, Civil Defense;
         (b)   9-1-1;
         (c)   Sheriff;
         (d)   Dive team;
         (e)   Nuclear safety;
         (f)   Court security;
         (g)   Ambulance;
         (h)   Law enforcement;
         (i)   Coroner; and
         (j)   Animal Control.
      (6)   Legislative Committee; duties. The duties of the Legislative
Committee shall be in the following areas:
         (a)   County and regional planning;
         (b)   Agriculture Extension Department;
         (c)   Elections;
         (d)   Policy; personnel; public relations; and
         (e)   Zoning and planning.
      (7)   Road and Bridge; duties. The duties of the Road and Bridge shall be
in the following areas:
         (a)   County highway; road and bridges (includes county line bridges
and Wabash river bridges);
         (b)   Aid to township roads;
         (c)   County aid for township bridges;
         (d)   Subdivision ordinances; and
         (e)   Airport; operation and extension.
      (8)   Insurance Committee; duties. The duties of the Insurance Committee
shall be in the following areas:
         (a)   Review health, life, dental and vision insurance;
         (b)   Review general liability/casualty, unemployment and worker’s
compensation coverage;
         (c)   Keep airport coverage current; and
         (d)   Prepare bids or quotes as necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 32.089 COMMITTEE MEETINGS.
   As much as practicable, committees shall designate a regular meeting time
and place. Any member of a committee, or the County Board Chairperson may call
a committee meeting at any time.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 32.090 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Chairperson may appoint special committees to study and make
recommendations on specific problems.
   (A)   Membership. Each special committee must consist of at least three
members. The committee must contain at least one member of the minority
political party and in cases in which more than three members are appointed to
special committee it must consist of members appointed in the same ratio as
memberships by political party on the entire Board, except by consent of the
majority of the minority party.
   (B)   Reports. Each special committee shall report at every regularly
scheduled meeting of the entire Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-6)
§ 32.091 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   The County Board and any committee thereof shall give public notice of
the schedule of their regular meetings at the beginning of each fiscal year.
Said notice shall state the regular dates, times and places of such meetings.
   (B)   Public notice of any special meeting or any rescheduled regular
meeting or any reconvened meeting shall be given at least 48 hours before
meeting; however, this requirement of public or reconvened meeting does not
apply to any case where the meeting is to be reconvened within 24 hours not to
any case where announcement of the time and place of the reconvened meeting was
made at the original meeting and there is no change in the agenda.
      (1)   Public notice shall be given by posting a copy of the notice in the
county building.
      (2)   Notice of regular meetings of the County Board and committees
thereof and of the notice of any special, rescheduled or reconvened meetings
shall be given to any local newspaper of general circulation or any local radio
or television station that has filed an annual request for such notice. Any
such news media shall be given 48 hours’ notice of all special, rescheduled or
reconvened meetings pursuant to this section and subject to its limitations.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-7)
§ 32.092 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Each member of the County Board or its committees shall submit to the
Board Office a list of resolutions and ordinances to be brought by him or her
before the meeting of the Board or committee.
   (B)   They shall submit proposed copies of resolutions and ordinances.
   (C)   The list of proposed resolutions and ordinances must be in possession
of the Board Office no later than 2:00 p.m. on the Thursday preceding the Board
or committee meeting.
   (D)   From the list submitted, the County Clerk shall prepare an agenda
including unfinished business for the meeting and make available copies of the
same with proposed resolutions and ordinances attached to all elected Board
members no later than 4:00 p.m. Friday, preceding the Board or committee
meeting.
   (E)   All ordinances and resolutions proposed shall include the committee
name or individual sponsoring same.
   (F)   Any subject matter not on the agenda shall not come before the Board
or committee meeting.
   (G)   Any subject matter not on the agenda shall not come before the Board
or committee unless the agenda is waived by two-thirds vote of members present.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-8)
§ 32.093 COUNTY SEAL.
   The seal provided by the County Board shall be circular in form consisting
of the words “Effingham County, Illinois” and the year “1831" in the outer
circle. In the center of the seal shall be a map of the state with the county’s
boundaries depicted in a drawing.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-9)
**** COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE ****
§ 32.105 ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The Effingham County Board hereby establishes attendance requirements for
individuals appointed to serve on these various committees by the Effingham
County Board. Said attendance requirements shall be as follows:
   (A)   Committees meeting more than four times per year (more than once a
quarter). An appointed member of a committee that meets more than four times
per year shall not acquire three successive absences from that particular
committee.
   (B)   Committees meeting four or less times per year (or, Committees that
meet quarterly). An appointed member of a committee that meets four or less
times per year shall not acquire more than two absences during any 12-month
period of the individual’s appointment.
(Ord. 15-102 , passed 12-21-2015)
§ 32.106 OBLIGATION OF COMMITTEE MINUTES TO RECORD ALL ABSENCES.
   Any and all absences of the committee will be noted in the committee minutes
when role call is taken. A committee member shall be considered present when
the member arrives in time to participate in relevant actions of the committee.
The member attending late must be allowed to participate in the meeting.
However, the committee members late arrival shall be noted in the minutes.
However, a late arrival at a committee meeting shall not be considered an
absence.
(Ord. 15-102, passed 12-21-2015)
§ 32.107 REMEDIES FOR VIOLATING ATTENDANCE POLICY.
   Any committee member appointed by the County Board who violates this
ordinance shall forfeit his or her seat on that particular committee. Further,
that the County Board formally may remove the member from the particular
committee, for good cause, and the County Board shall have the authority to
appoint another individual for this vacancy caused by the violation of this
ordinance.
(Ord. 15-102, passed 12-21-2015)
CHAPTER 33: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Sheriff’s deputy and court security personnel capacity
   
33.02   Employees’ mileage reimbursement
   
33.03   Employee Personnel Code
   
33.04   Highway Department Drug and Alcohol Abuse Policy
   
33.05   Sexual Harassment Policy
Gift Ban
   
33.15   Definitions
   
33.16   Gift ban
   
33.17   Exceptions
   
33.18   Attendance at events
   
33.19   Disposition of gifts
   
33.20   Reimbursement
   
33.21   Ethics officer
Ethics Provisions
   
33.40   Definitions
   
33.41   Prohibited political activities
   
33.42   Gift ban
   
33.43   Nepotism
   
33.44   Ethics advisor
   
33.45   Ethics Commission
   
33.46   Validity
Appointed Officials
   
33.55   Term of appointed officials
   
33.56   Emergency Management Coordinator
   
33.57   County Engineer
   
33.58   Solid Waste Coordinator
   
33.59   Appointments by county
Reimbursement of Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expenses
   
33.70   Definitions
   
33.71   Official business for which expenses may be reimbursed
   
33.72   Maximum allowable reimbursement for expenses
   
33.73   Approval of expenses
   
33.74   Documentation of expenses
   
33.75   Entertainment expenses
 
   
33.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 33.01 SHERIFF’S DEPUTY AND COURT SECURITY PERSONNEL CAPACITY.
   (A)   The County Board authorizes the Sheriff of the county to hire and
maintain a staff of 17 full-time deputy Sheriff personnel.
   (B)   The County Board authorizes the Sheriff of the county to hire and
maintain a staff of three full-time court security officers.
   (C)   The Sheriff may hire part-time deputy Sheriff personnel as needed to
fill vacant shifts and to provide additional security and patrol enforcement.
   (D)   The Sheriff may hire part-time court security officers as needed to
fill vacant shifts and to provide additional security as needed in the
courthouse.
   (E)   All Deputy Sheriffs and court security officers must meet the
requirements of the state, and the county and be approved by the Sheriff and
the County Board prior to being hired.
   (F)   Any person hired after the effective date of this section that fails
to meet the requirements of this section, shall not receive compensation,
insurance benefits, nor be recognized or indemnified by the county as an
employee or deputy sheriff or court security officer.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.02 EMPLOYEES’ MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT.
   The county will pay for travel by private auto (one payment per vehicle) at
the rate of compensation of $0.50 per mile.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2009)
§ 33.03 EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL CODE.
   The Employee Personnel Code is hereby adopted by reference and included in
this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11)
§ 33.04 HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE POLICY.
   The Highway Department Drug and Alcohol Abuse Policy is hereby adopted by
reference and included in this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, Exhibit A)
§ 33.05 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Adoption of Discrimination and Sexual Harassment Policy. The policy
prohibiting sexual harassment, included as Exhibit A to Ordinance 17-100,
passed December 18, 2017, is hereby adopted by reference and included in this
code as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   Existing policies. All prior existing sexual harassment policies of
the county that conflict with the policy contained in Ordinance 17-100 shall be
superseded by the Policy Prohibiting Sexual Harassment adopted by this section.
(Ord. 17-100, passed 12-18-2017)
**** GIFT BAN ****
§ 33.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. An Ethics Commission created by the County Board of Effingham
County, Illinois.
   ELECTED OFFICIAL. A person elected or appointed to an elective county
office, but does not include the Circuit Clerk or State’s Attorney.
   EMPLOYEE. All full-time or part-time employees of elected and appointed
officials of the county; elected and appointed officials of the county, whether
salaried or non-salaried.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an employee.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) organized and operated primarily for
the purpose of directly or indirectly accepting contributions or making
expenditures, influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of
any individual to any federal, state or local public office or office in a
political organization, or the election of presidential or vice presidential
electors, whether or not the individual or electors are selected, nominated,
elected or appointed. The term includes an organization that makes expenditures
relating to an office described in the preceding sentence which, if incurred by
the individual, would be allowable as a federal income tax deduction for trade
or business expense.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity whom:
      (1)   Is seeking official action by the employee, by another employee
directing the first employee, or by the county;
      (1)   Does business or seeks to do business with the employee, with
another employee directing the first employee, or with the county;
      (2)   Conducts activities regulated by the employee, by another employee
directing the first employee, or by the county.
      (3)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non performance of the official duties of the employee; or
      (4)   Is subject to an ordinance or resolution of the county that
regulates lobbing as authorized by the Lobbyist Registration Act, being 25 ILCS
170/1 et seq.
   SUBSIDIARY BODY. Any board, commission or committee, created or authorized
by statute or ordinance of the county.
   ULTIMATE JURISDICTIONAL AUTHORITY. The following:
      (1)   For an employee who is not an elected official, the elected or
appointed official or subsidiary body of the county with ultimate power to
discipline the employee; and
      (2)   For an elected official, the County Board.
(Ord. 1999-32, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 33.16 GIFT BAN.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no employee shall solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source or in violation of any federal or
state statute, rule, regulation or any ordinance or resolution. This ban
applies to and includes spouse of and immediate family living with the
employee. No prohibited source shall offer or make a gift that violates this
section.
(Ord. 1999-32, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 33.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   The restriction in §
33.16 does not apply to the following:
   (A)   Anything for which the employee pays the market value of anything not
used and promptly disposed of as provided in §
33.19;
   (B)   A contribution as defined in Article 9 of the Election Code, being 10
ILCS 5/9-1 et seq., that is lawfully made under that Code or attendance at a
fundraising event sponsored by a political organization;
   (C)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the individual
as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great uncle,
first cousin, nephew, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, half brother or
half sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother, of
the individual’s spouse and the individual’s finance or fiancee;
   (D)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the employee has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the employee and not because of the personal friendship; in
determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of personal friendship, the
employee shall consider the circumstances under which the gift was offered,
such as:
      (1)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving the
gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of gifts
between those individuals;
      (2)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the employee the individual who
gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or
business reimbursement for the gift; and
      (3)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the employee the individual who
gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar gifts to other
employees.
   (E)   A commercially reasonable loan evidenced in writing with repayment due
by a date certain made in the ordinary course of the lender’s business;
   (F)   A contribution or other payments to a legal defense fund established
for the benefit of an employee that is otherwise lawfully made;
   (G)   Intra-office and inter-office gifts. For the purpose of this
subchapter, INTRA-OFFICE GIFTS and INTER-OFFICE GIFTS mean:
      (1)   Any gift given to an employee from another employee;
      (2)   Any gift given to an employee from an elected official or employee
of another unit of local government or school district; or
      (3)   Any gift given to an employee from a member, officer or employee
subject to the State Gift Ban Act, being 5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq., as those
terms are defined in that Act.
   (H)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits:
      (1)   Resulting from the outside business or employment activities (or
outside activities that are not connected to the duties of the employee as an
employee) of the employee other spouse of the employee, if the benefits have
not been offered or enhanced because of the official position or employment of
the employee and are customarily provided to others in similar circumstances;
      (2)   Customarily provided by a prospective employer in connection with
bona fide employment discussions; or
      (3)   Provided by a political organization in connection with a
fundraising or campaign event sponsored by that organization.
   (I)   Pension and other benefits resulting from continued participation in
an employee welfare and benefits plan;
   (J)   Informational materials that are sent to the office of the employee in
the form of books, articles, periodicals, other written materials, audiotapes,
videotapes or other forms of communication;
   (K)   Awards or prizes that are given to competitors in contests or events
open to the public, including random drawings;
   (L)   Honorary degrees (and associated travel, food, refreshments and
entertainment provided in the presentation of degrees and awards);
   (M)   Training (including food and refreshments furnished to all attendees
as an integral part of training) provided to an employee if the training is in
the interest of the county;
   (N)   Educational mission, including meetings with government officials
either foreign or domestic, intended to educate public officials on matters of
public policy, to which the employee may be invited to participate along with
other federal, state or local public officials and community leaders;
   (O)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death;
   (P)   Anything that is paid for by the federal government, the state, a unit
of local government or a school districts, or secured by the government under a
government contract;
   (Q)   A gift of personal hospitality of an individual other than a regulated
lobbyist or agent of a foreign principal, including hospitality extended for a
nonbusiness purpose by an individual, not a corporation or organization, at the
personal residence of that individual or the individual’s family or on property
or facilities owned by that individual or the individual’s family;
   (R)   Free attendance at a widely attended event permitted under §
33.18;
   (S)   Opportunities and benefits that are:
      (1)   Available to the public or to a class consisting of all employees
whether or not restricted of all employees whether or not restricted on the
basis of geographic consideration;
      (2)   Offered to members of a group or class in which membership is
unrelated to employment or which membership is unrelated to employment or
official position;
      (3)   Offered to members of an organization such as an employee’s
association or credit union, in which membership is related to employment or
official position and similar opportunities are available to large segments of
the public through organizations of similar size;
      (4)   Offered to any group or class that is not defined in a manner that
specifically discriminates among government employees on the basis of branch of
government or type of responsibility, or on a basis that favors those of higher
rank or rate of pay;
      (5)   In the form of loans from banks and other financial institutions on
terms generally available to the public; or
      (6)   In the form of reduced membership or other fees for participation
in organization activities offered to all government employees by professional
organizations if the only restrictions on membership relate to professional
qualifications.
   (T)   A plaque, trophy or other item is substantially commemorative in
nature and that is extended for presentation;
   (U)   Golf or tennis; food or refreshments of nominal value and catered food
or refreshments; meals or beverages consumed on the premises from which they
purchased;
   (V)   Donations of products from an Illinois company that are intended
primarily for promotional purposed, such as display or free distribution, and
are of minimal value to any individual recipient; or
   (W)   An item of nominal value such as a greeting card, baseball cap or T-
shirt.
(Ord. 1999-32, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 33.18 ATTENDANCE AT EVENTS.
   (A)   An employee may accept an offer of free attendance at a widely
attended convention, conference, symposium, forum, panel discussion, dinner,
viewing, reception or similar event, provided by the sponsor of the event, if:
      (1)   The employee participates in the event as a speaker or a panel
participant, by presenting information related to government, or by performing
a ceremonial function appropriate to the employee’s official position or
employment; or
      (2)   Attendance at the event is appropriate to the performance of civic
affairs in the state or the official duties or representative function of the
employee.
   (B)   An employee who attends an event described in division (A) above may
accept a sponsor’s unsolicited offer of free attendance at the event for an
accompanying individual.
   (C)   An employee, or the spouse or dependent of an employee, may accept a
sponsor’s unsolicited offer of free attendance at a charity event, except that
reimbursement for transportation and lodging may not be accepted in connection
with the event.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, the term FREE ATTENDANCE may include
waiver of all or part of a conference or other fee, the provision of
transportation, or the provision of food, refreshments, entertainment and
instructional materials furnished to all attendees as an integral part of the
event. The term does not include entertainment collateral to the event, nor
does it include food or refreshments taken other than in a group setting with
all or substantially all other attendees, except as authorized under §
33.17(U).
(Ord. 1999-32, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 33.19 DISPOSITION OF GIFTS.
   The recipient of a gift that is given in violation of this subchapter may,
at his or her discretion, return the item to the donor or give the item or an
amount equal to its value to an appropriate charity.
(Ord. 1999-32, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 33.20 REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   A reimbursement (including payment in kind) to an employee from a
private source other than a regulated lobbyist or agent of a foreign principal
for necessary transportation, lodging and related expenses for travel to a
meeting, speaking engagement, fact finding trip or similar event in connection
with the duties of the employee as an employee shall be deemed to be a
reimbursement to the county and not a gift prohibited by this subchapter if the
employee:
      (1)   Disclose the expenses reimbursed or to be reimbursed and the
authorization to the County Auditor within 30 days after the travel is
completed; and
      (2)   In case of an employee under direct supervision of another
employee, receives advance authorization from the supervising employee to
accept reimbursement.
   (B)   For purpose of division (A) above, events, the activities of which are
substantially recreational in nature, shall not be considered to be in
connection with the duties of an employee as an employee.
   (C)   Each advance authorization to accept reimbursement shall be signed by
the employee under whose direct supervision the employee works and shall
include:
      (1)   The name of the employee;
      (2)   The name of the person who will make the reimbursement;
      (3)   The time, place and purpose of the travel; and
      (4)   A determination that the travel is in connection with the duties of
the employee as an employee and would not create the appearance that the
employee is using public employment for private gain.
   (D)   Each disclosure made under division (A) above of expenses
reimbursement or to be reimbursed shall be signed by the employee or, in the
case of an employee, by the supervising employee and shall include:
      (1) A good faith estimate of total transportation expenses reimbursed or
to be reimbursed;
      (2)   A good faith estimate of total lodging expenses reimbursed or to be
reimbursed;
      (3)   A good faith estimate of total meal expenses reimbursed or to be
reimbursed;
      (4)   A good faith estimate of the total of other expenses reimbursed or
to be reimbursed; and
      (5)   A determination that all those expenses are necessary
transportation, lodging and other related expenses.
(Ord. 1999-32, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 33.21 ETHICS OFFICER.
   The Chairperson of the County Board shall be the Ethics Officer for the
county. The Chairperson of the County Board or his or her designee shall:
   (A)   Review statements of economic interests and disclosure forms of county
employees before they are filed with the County Clerk; and
   (B)   Provide guidance to county employees in the interpretation and
implementation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1999-32, passed 6-28-1999)
**** ETHICS PROVISIONS ****
§ 33.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or
vice-presidential electors, but does not include activities (i) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
(ii) relating to collective bargaining, or (iii) that are otherwise in
furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/1-
3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 3
of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/3).
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
subchapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods,
personal time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a
leave of absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not
fixed, COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on
premises under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer
or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the employer, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The following elected officials of Effingham County: the Auditor,
Coroner, County Clerk, Recorder, Sheriff, and Treasurer, with respect to the
officers and employees of their respective offices. EMPLOYER also means the
Effingham County Board with respect to the officers and employees not under the
authority of any elected official. This subchapter does not apply to the
following elected officials or their officers and employees: Judges of the
Fourth Judicial Circuit, the Clerk of the Circuit Court, and the State’s
Attorney.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive (i)
compensation for employment, (ii) service credit towards pension benefits, and
(iii) health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   NEPOTISM. Favoritism (as in appointment to a job) based on kinship.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities (i) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, (ii) relating to collective bargaining,
or (iii) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-3), but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a county
clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including but not limited to the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
      (4)   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question.
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action (i) by an officer or (ii) by an
employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business (i) with the officer or (ii)
with an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated (i) by the officer or (ii) by an
employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-15-2014; Ord. 17-48, passed - - )
§ 33.41 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the employer
in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity (i) as
part of that officer or employee’s duties, (ii) as a condition of employment,
or (iii) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this subchapter.
   (E)   No person either (i) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or (ii) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the Federal
Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration applicable to grant-
in-aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-15-2014; Ord. 17-48, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.42 GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Gift ban. Except as permitted by this subchapter, no officer or
employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer
or employee (collectively referred to herein as “recipients”), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined
herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited
source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   (B)   (1)   Exceptions. Division (A) of this section is not applicable to
the following:
         (a)   Opportunities, benefits, and services that is available on the
same conditions as for the general public;
         (b)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
         (c)   Any (i) contribution that is lawfully made under the Election
Code or (ii) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate;
         (d)   Educational materials and missions;
         (e)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
         (f)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother, half-
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancé;
         (g)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: (i) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; (ii)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and (iii) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members;
         (h)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are (i) consumed on
the premises from which they were purchased or prepared or (ii) catered. For
the purposes of this section, CATERED means food or refreshments that are
purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any means;
         (i)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
         (j)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this subchapter, INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer
or employee from another officer or employee, and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity;
         (k)   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death; or
         (l)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
      (2)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
   (C)   Disposition of gifts. An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this subchapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a
gift from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount
equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income
taxation under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or
hereafter amended, renumbered, or succeeded.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-15-2014; Ord. 17-48, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.43 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Prohibition against nepotism in hiring employees for county offices.
No county employee, including but not limited to an elected or appointed
executive department head or an employee in a managerial position of a given
department, shall be in a position that provides supervision over a member of
his or her family. This prohibits the acceptance of applications for full-time,
part-time, or seasonal employment from relatives for positions in the same
department where supervision conflicts exist or through promotion, potential
conflict could exist.
   (B)   Definition of family members.  FAMILY MEMBERS shall be defined as an
employee’s parent, child, spouse, domestic partner, cohabitant, brother,
sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,
grandparent, and any step relationships within the preceding categories.
   (C)   Grandfather provision for current county employees. These policies do
not apply to present employees of the county. However, employees hired on or
after April 16, 2013 will be required to resign their employment from the
county if his or her relationship status with his or her supervisor changes to
become covered under this provision. Further, pursuant to this subchapter,
employees are required to disclose changes in their personal situations, which,
may be covered under this nepotism policy. Also, pursuant to this subchapter,
current county employees cannot later be promoted to a supervisory position
over a family member. If a current county employee later is promoted to a
supervisory position over a family member, the promoted county employee must
resign his or her employment with the county.
   (D)   Purpose of prohibiting nepotism in county hiring processes. These
policies are not for the purpose of depriving any citizen of an equal chance
for a government job. Rather, these policies are intended to ensure effective
supervision, internal discipline, security, safety and positive morale in the
workplace. These policies also aim to avoid the appearance of favoritism,
conflicts in loyalty, the appearance of impropriety and conflicts of interest.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-15-2014; Ord. 17-48, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.44 ETHICS ADVISOR.
   (A)   The County Board Chairman, with the advice and consent of the County
Board shall designate an Ethics Advisor for Effingham County. The duties of the
Ethics Advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of Effingham County
unless the position has been created as an office by Effingham County.
   (B)   The Ethics Advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of Effingham County concerning the interpretation of and compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter and state ethics law. The Ethics Advisor
shall perform such other duties as may be delegated by the County Board.
( Ord. 17-48, passed - - )
§ 33.45 ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Ethics
Commission of Effingham County. The Commission shall be comprised of three
members appointed by the County Board Chairman with the advice and consent of
the County Board. No person shall be appointed as a member of the Commission
who is related, either by blood or by marriage up to the degree of first
cousin, to an elected officer of Effingham County. No more than two members of
the Commission shall belong to the same political party at the time such
appointments are made. Party affiliation shall be determined by affidavit of
the person appointed.
   (B)   At the first meeting of the Commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two commissioners shall serve two-
year terms, and the third commissioner shall serve a one-year term. Thereafter,
all commissioners shall be appointed to two-year terms. Commissioners may be
reappointed to serve subsequent terms. At the first meeting of the Commission,
the commissioners shall choose a chairperson from their number. Meetings shall
be held at the call of the chairperson or any two commissioners. A quorum shall
consist of two commissioners, and official action by the commission shall
require the affirmative vote of two members.
   (C)   The County Board Chairman, with the advice and consent of the County
Board, may remove a commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance n office after service on the commissioner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a copy of the written charges against the
commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel upon not less than ten days’ notice. Vacancies shall be filled in the
same manner as original appointments.
   (D)   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with §
33.99(B) and refer violations of §§ 33.A41 or
33.42 to the appropriate attorney or prosecution. The Commission shall,
however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint alleging a violation
of this subchapter and not upon its own prerogative;
      (3)   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this subchapter;
      (4)   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the Effingham County to cooperate with the Commission
during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with
requests by the Commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or
discharge; and
      (5)   The powers and duties of the Commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this subchapter.
   (E)   (1)   Complaints alleging a violation of this Ordinance shall be filed
with the Ethics Commission.
      (2)   Within three business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three business days after receipt by commission. The notices to the
respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time, and
place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      (3)   Upon not less than 48 hours’ public notice, the Commission shall
meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the complaint is deemed
sufficient to allege a violation of this subchapter, to determine whether there
is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by the complainant, to
proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the extent authorized by
the Open Meetings Act. The Commission shall issue notice to the complainant and
the respondent of the Commission’s ruling on the sufficiency of the complaint
and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed within seven business days
after receiving the complaint. If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege
a violation of §
33.42 and there is a determination of probable cause then the Commissioner’s
notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled within four weeks
after the complaint’s receipt. Alternatively, the Commission may elect to
notify in writing the attorney designated by the corporate authorities to
prosecute such actions and request that the complaint be adjudicated
judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege a violation or
it there is no determination of probably cause, then the Commission shall send
by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to the parties of the
decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be made public. If the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §
33.41, then the Commission shall notify in writing the attorney designated by
the corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and shall transmit to the
attorney the complaint and all additional documents in the custody of the
Commission concerning the alleged violation.
      (4)   On the scheduled date and upon at least 48 hours’ public notice of
the meeting, the Commission shall conduct a hearing on the complaint and shall
allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence. The
hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the Open Meetings
Act.
      (5)   Within 30 days after the date the hearing or any recessed hearing
is concluded, the Commission shall either (i) dismiss the complaint or (ii)
issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the County
Board Chairman or other officer having authority to discipline the officer or
employee, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. The particular findings
n the case, any recommendation for discipline, and any fine imposed shall be a
matter of public information.
      (6)   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven days after
the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition if a fine, or
both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the recommendation
or fine. Within 14 days after receiving the demand, the Commission shall
conduce a public hearing on the complaint upon at least 48 hours’ public notice
of the hearing and allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and
evidence. Within seven days thereafter, the Commission shall publicly issue a
final recommendation to the alleged violator and to the County Board Chairman
or other officer having authority to discipline the officer or employee or
impose a fine upon the violator or both.
      (7)   If a complaint is filed during the 60 days preceding the date of
any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the Commission shall
render its decision as required under division (E)(5) of this section within
seven days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven days preceding
that election, the Commission shall render such decision before the date of
that election, if possible.
      (8)   The Commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of §
33.42 in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more than $5,000. The
Commission may fine any person who knowingly fines f frivolous complaint
alleging a violation of this Ordinance in an amount of not less than $1,001 and
not more than $5,000. The Commission may recommend any appropriate discipline
up to and including discharge.
      (9)   A complaint alleging the violation of this Act must be filed within
one year after the alleged violation.
( Ord. 17-48, passed - - )
§ 33.46 VALIDITY.
   (A)   In the event that any provision of this subchapter or any part or
application thereof to any person or circumstance, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction on its face or as applied, such holding shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of any of the remaining provisions of this subchapter
or any part or application thereof to any person or circumstance of said
provision as applied to any other person or circumstance. It is hereby declared
to be the legislative intent of the employer that this subchapter would have
been adopted had such unconstitutional, invalid, or ineffective provisions not
been included herein.
   (B)   All previous resolutions, ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with
this subchapter are hereby repealed upon the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-15-2014; Ord. 17-48, passed - - )
**** APPOINTED OFFICIALS ****
§ 33.55 TERM OF APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   The term of office for the following appointed officials shall be from
appointment until the first County Board meeting following the date County
Board members take office after each general election that County Board members
are candidates for office. The County Board shall vote on appointment to the
offices at said Board meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1)
§ 33.56 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR.
   (A)   Appointment. The County Board Chairperson shall appoint, with the
advice and consent of the County Board, a Coordinator of the Emergency
Management Agency who shall serve at the will of the County Board.
   (B)   Salary. The Coordinator shall receive a salary as established in the
annual budget.
   (C)   Duties. The duties shall be as follows:
      (1)   Act as staff officer to and perform all duties as required by the
Chief Elected Official of the county;
      (2)   Have direct responsibility for the organization, administration,
training and operation of County Emergency Management Agency (hereinafter
“EMA”) and volunteers;
      (3)   Advise and facilitate training for the county businesses, and any
other organizations, public or private, in mitigation, preparation and response
to natural and human-made disasters;
      (4)   Assist, advise and facilitate the county school districts in
mitigation, preparation and response to natural and human-made disasters;
      (5)   Coordinate various community volunteer groups with first responders
during disasters, maintain a working relationship, provide training and
integrate the volunteer groups into the first response community;
      (6)   Facilitate emergency preparedness training and outreach programs to
the general public;
      (7)   Administer programs and grants from state and federal entities;
      (8)   Maintain the County’s Emergency Operations Plan (hereinafter “EOP”)
and Resource Manual;
      (9)   Maintain the Emergency Operations Center at state of readiness;
      (10)   Fulfill all state requirements to maintain the emergency
management programs;
      (11)   Act as an intermediary between local first responders and county
entities;
      (12)   Assist local communities’ mitigation, response and recovery
actions;
      (13)   Access state and federal assets;
      (14)   Serve as the Local Emergency Planning Committee’s (hereinafter
“LEPC”) chair, maintain the LEPC and EOP as well as track HazMat substances;
      (15)   Initiate and maintain public safety programs;
      (16)   Report activities and concerns to the County Board and its Public
Safety Committee;
      (17)   Assist the county coordinators of the Homeland Security Program
for Region 17 Fire and HazMat and Region 9 for the Law Enforcement; and
      (18)   The normal work week will be 30 hours a week. The days and hours
worked will be adjusted by the job duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-2)
§ 33.57 COUNTY ENGINEER.
   (A)   Appointment. The County Board Chairperson shall appoint, with the
advice and consent of the County Board, a County Engineer.
   (B)   Duties. See the County Code for the duties and responsibilities.
   (C)   Term. The County Engineer shall serve a term of office of six years.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-3)
§ 33.58 SOLID WASTE COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall oversee the following implementation
activities:
      (1)   Data collection. Annually collect and analyze the data required to
calculate the county’s municipal waste recycling rate and forward this data to
the IEPA for their review and approval;
      (2)   Source reduction. Coordinate the implementation and operation of
source reduction programs for all municipal, educational, commercial and
industrial entities in the county;
      (3)   Recycling/reuse. Coordinate the implementation and operation of
recycling/reuse programs for all municipal, educational, commercial and
industrial entities in the county. Special emphasis shall be given to defining
market potentials for recyclable materials;
      (4)   Incineration. Act as the principal liaison between the county and
private industry to investigate the feasibility of any future proposals for the
incineration of solid waste in waste-to-energy or volume reduction incineration
facilities;
      (5)   Landfills. Monitor all efforts for the expansion of existing
landfills or development of new landfills in the county. Assume a leading role
in providing input to the required siting/permit hearings in regards to how any
proposed expansion or additional landfill fits into the county’s overall solid
waste management plan;
      (6)   Public education. Coordinate the implementation and operation of
educational programs to provide information on solid waste management
throughout the county. Educational programs shall be made available to the
public/private school systems, commercial and industrial entities, and to the
general public;
      (7)   Inspection/enforcement. Work in cooperation with the State
Environmental Protection Agency to ensure that all solid waste facilities in
the county are operated in compliance with applicable regulations;
      (8)   Multi-county coordination. Coordinate the county’s solid waste
management plan activities with the solid waste management plans of surrounding
counties. Special emphasis shall be given to developing multi-county efforts in
the area of markets for recycled material;
      (9)   Economic development. Work with existing economic development
agencies to explore the economic development opportunities associated with
solid waste management programs and facilities; and
      (10)   Legislative. Coordinate the county’s lobbying efforts for solid
waste legislation at the local, state and federal levels.
   (B)   It is important to note that the primary function of the Solid Waste
Coordinator will be to assist in the development, implementation and
coordination of solid waste management programs and facilities throughout the
county. The detailed day-to-day tasks of operating and maintaining these
programs and facilities will be the responsibility of the staffs of the various
governmental entities and private contractors involved.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-4)
§ 33.59 APPOINTMENTS BY COUNTY.
   The terms of employment of the following appointed superintendents of county
administrative departments and the services of members of the following boards,
commissions and authorities shall be fixed as follows.
   (A)   Boards and Commissions. 
Boards and Commissions Number of Member(s) Term Appointment Month
Boards and Commissions                  Number of Term        Appointment
                                        Member(s)             Month
Fire Protection Districts                         3 years     May 1
Sanitary Districts                                3 years     May 1
9-1-1 Telephone System Board (see §§
35.001 through                          9         2 - 4 years Varies
35.010)
Agricultural Area Board                 5         3 years     May
Airport Commission                      5         3 years     Varies
Board of Health                         11        2 years     Varies
Board of Review                         3         2 years     May
Community Dev. Comm.                    1         2 years     December
Dive Rescue                             3         4 years     May
Effingham County Extension              2         2 years     December
Farmland Assess. Review Comm.           3         2 years     June
Housing Authority                       7         Varies      Varies
Mental Deficient                        5         3 years     Varies
Mental Health Board (708) (see §§
35.025 through                          7         3 years     June
35.038)
Regional Planning Commission            1         2 years     December
Scrip & DC Board of Comm.               3         2 years     December
Veterinarian                            1         2 years     Varies
Unless otherwise provided, each appointee shall take office the first of
the month following the appointment
 
   (B)   Appointed county officials.
 
Appointed County Officials               Term
9-1-1 Coordinator                        Subject to will
Animal Control Warden                    Subject to will
E.M.A. Coordinator                       Subject to will
Highway Engineer                         6 years
Liquor Commissioner (Co- Board Chairman) 2 years
(Elected)                                4 years
 
(Prior Code, § 1-10-5)
**** REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL, MEAL, AND LODGING EXPENSES ****
§ 33.70 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
   ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
   TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the county or by wards or charges of the county involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10-17-2016; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 33.71 OFFICIAL BUSINESS FOR WHICH EXPENSES MAY BE REIMBURSED.
   (A)   An official of the county shall be entitled to reimbursement for
travel, including meals or lodging, related to the following types of official
business:
      (1)   Education conferences related to the duties of the officer of the
county;
      (2)   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the county; and
      (3)   All visits, inspections and/or other required duties of any
employee acting in his or her official capacity as an employee or officer of
the county.
   (B)   An employee shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel, including -
meals or lodging, related to the following types of official business:
      (1)   Education conferences related to the duties of the employee of the
county;
      (2)   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the county; and
      (3)   All visits, inspections and/or other required duties of any
employee acting in his or her official capacity as an employee or officer of
the county.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10-17-2016; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 33.72 MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise excepted herein, the maximum allowable reimbursement
for an employee or officer of the county shall be those rates set by the
Reimbursement Schedule of the Governor’s Travel Control Board in effect at the
time the expense was incurred.
   (B)   The following exceptions shall not be controlled by the Reimbursement
Schedule of the Governor’s Travel Control Board and shall be limited as
indicated:
      (1)   Mileage reimbursement will be readjusted each budget year by
issuing IRS rate as guideline;
      (2)   Meals will be reimbursed at $30 per day;
      (3)   Rooms will be reimbursed at a single room rate; and
      (4)   There will be no reimbursement for entertainment.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10-17-2016; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 33.73 APPROVAL OF EXPENSES.
   The Board must approve the following reimbursements for travel, including
meals or lodging, by a roll call vote at an open meeting of the Board:
   (A)   Any expense of any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum
permitted in §
33.72; or
   (B)   Any expense of any member of the Board.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10-17-2016; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 33.74 DOCUMENTATION OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   Before any reimbursement for travel, including meals or lodging, may
be approved pursuant to §
33.73, a standardized form for submission of travel, meal, and lodging expenses
supported by the following minimum documentation shall first be submitted to
the Board:
      (1)   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals, or
lodging if the expenses have already been incurred;
      (2)   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the
travel, meal, or lodging expense;
      (3)   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal, or lodging expense; and
      (4)   The date or dates and nature of the official business in which the
travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended.
   (B)   All documents and information submitted under this section are public
records subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/
1 et seq.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10-17-2016; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 33.75 ENTERTAINMENT EXPENSES.
   No employee or officer of the county shall be reimbursed by the county for
any entertainment expense.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10-17-2016; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
33.41 may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other
than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
33.42 is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000.
      (3)   A violation of §
33.41 shall be a Class A misdemeanor. The prosecution shall be under and
conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the
establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
      (4)   A violation of §
33.42 may be prosecuted as a business offense.
      (5)   A person who intentionally violates §
33.43 and is an elected or appointed department head, is subject to a fine in
the amount of $100 per day for each and every separate violation of §
33.43.
      (6)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
33.41, 33.42 or 33.43 is subject to discipline or discharge.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-15-2014; Ord. 17-48, passed - - )
CHAPTER 34: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
Policies and Procedures Generally
   
34.001   Capitalization policy
   
34.002   Bidding and contract procedures
   
34.003   Salaries regulation
   
34.004   Claims
   
34.005   Space heaters and the like prohibited
   
34.006   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
   
34.007   Federal old age and survivor’s insurance system
   
34.008   County Board salaries
   
34.009   County official salaries
   
34.010   Smoke-free buildings
   
34.011   Convention and seminar reimbursement policy
   
34.012   Financial responsibility for hazardous materials spills
Fraud/Whistleblower Policy
   
34.025   Purpose of policy
   
34.026   Scope of policy
   
34.027   Policy
   
34.028   Actions constituting fraud
   
34.029   Investigation responsibilities
   
34.030   Confidentiality
   
34.031   Authorization for investigating suspected fraud
   
34.032   Reporting procedures
   
34.033   Termination
   
34.034   Protection of reporting person
   
34.035   Administration
Investment Policy
   
34.050   Scope of policy
   
34.051   Objectives
   
34.052   Guidelines
   
34.053   Responsibility
   
34.054   Reporting
   
34.055   Investment vehicles
   
34.056   Financial institutions
   
34.057   Collateralization
   
34.058   Safekeeping of securities
   
34.059   Indemnification
   
34.060   Security controls
   
34.061   Bonding
   
34.062   Amendment
   
34.063   Captions and headings
Equal Employment Policy
   
34.075   Adoption of codes
   
34.076   Non-discriminatory practices
   
34.077   Contracting with non-compliants
   
34.078   Outreach to all
   
34.079   Minority hiring
   
34.080   Accommodations for disabled
   
34.081   Compliance by employees
   
34.082   Designated enforcers
Freedom of Information Procedures
   
34.095   Definitions
   
34.096   Policy
   
34.097   Individual privacy protected
   
34.098   Public records available
   
34.099   Requests to be in writing
   
34.100   Fees
   
34.101   Time limit for compliance with request
   
34.102   Extension of time limit; notice
   
34.103   Unduly burdensome request
   
34.104   Certain information exempt from inspection and copying
   
34.105   Notice of denial of request; appeals
   
34.106   Granting of request; procedure for inspection
   
34.107   Written request not required for certain documents
   
34.108   Dissemination of information about public bodies
   
34.109   List of categories of records
Cross-reference:
   County Board, see
Chapter 32
   County organizations, see
Chapter 35
**** POLICIES AND PROCEDURES GENERALLY ****
§ 34.001 CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   For the purposes of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement
34, the policy is established.
   (A)   The minimum capitalization amount for individual equipment is $5,000,
for buildings and improvements is $10,000, and for infrastructure assets
(roads, bridges, culverts, curbs, sidewalks, lighting systems, gutters and
drainage systems) is $10,000.
   (B)   The cost for maintenance will be expensed.
   (C)   The costs for capital assets and infrastructure will be capitalized
and depreciated on a retroactive basis beginning in fiscal year 2006.
   (D)   The following depreciation methods are established:
      (1)   Equipment: seven years, straight line;
      (2)   Vehicles under 13,000 gross vehicle weight: five years, straight
line;
      (3)   Vehicles 13,000 gross vehicle weight: ten years, straight line;
      (4)   Other improvements: 20 years, straight line;
      (5)   Buildings: 40 years, straight line;
      (6)   Asphalt road improvements: 20 years, straight line;
      (7)   Concrete road improvements: 40 years, straight line;
      (8)   New oil and chip roads: 40 years, straight line;
      (9)   Bridges: 50 years, straight line; and
      (10)   Other infrastructure: 20 years, straight line.
(Ord. 07-64, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 34.002 BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Competitive bidding required. Any work or other public improvement
which is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or
special taxation, and all purchases of and contracts for supplies, materials
and services shall, except as specifically provided herein, be based whenever
possible on competitive bids.
   (B)   Formal contract procedure. All work or other public improvement which
is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or special
taxation, and all purchases, orders or contracts for supplies, materials,
equipment or contractual services except as otherwise provided herein, when the
estimated cost thereof shall exceed $20,000, shall be purchased from the lowest
responsible bidder, after due notice inviting bids.
   (C)   Notice inviting bids. Notice inviting bids shall be published at least
once in a newspaper with general circulation within the county. The county
shall also advertise all pending work or purchases by posting a notice on the
public bulletin board in the courthouse.
   (D)   Scope of notice. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the work to be performed or the articles to be
purchased, shall state where specifications may be secured, and the time and
place for opening bids.
   (E)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the County Board, bid deposits
shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders
shall be entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the
contract by the County Board. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit
required by the Board upon failure on his or her part to enter into a contract
within ten days after the award.
   (F)   Bid opening procedure.
      (1)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the county and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
      (2)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
Board or by a county employee, in which event, a tabulation of the bids shall
be furnished to the County Board at its next regular meeting.
   (G)   Rejection of bids. The County Board shall have the authority to reject
all bids or parts of all bids when the public interest will be served thereby.
   (H)   Bidders in default to County Board. The County Board shall not accept
the bid of a contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or
other monies due the county.
   (I)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Authority in county. The Board shall have the authority to award
contracts within the purview of this section.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interest of the
county to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the Board
shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or
services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      (3)   Performance bonds. The County Board shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the county.
   (J)   Open market procedure. All work and purchases of supplies, materials
and services of less than the estimated value of $20,000 may be made in the
open market, without newspaper advertisement and without observing the
procedure prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (K)   Professional services exempt from bidding requirements. All contracts
for professional services, including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers,
real estate appraisers and architects and any other profession whose ethical
code involved prohibits or discourages involvement in normal bidding
procedures, may be entered into by the county without observing the bidding
procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (L)   Emergency purchases. In case of an apparent emergency which requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies, materials or services, the County Board
shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure as herein set forth, at
the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials or services
regardless of the amount of the expenditure.
   (M)   Cooperative purchasing. The county shall have the authority to join
with other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best
interests of the county would be served thereby. (See 55 ILCS 5/5-1022.)
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 34.003 SALARIES REGULATION.
   (A)   Elected. No salary or compensation of any elected county officer who
is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished
during such term.
   (B)   Appointed. No salary or compensation of any appointed official who is
appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased during such term,
but may be increased.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
§ 34.004 CLAIMS.
   (A)   Presentation. All claims against the county for goods purchased,
damaged or originating in any other way, except for claims for salaries and
other allowances that are fixed by ordinance shall be presented on or before
the second Monday of each month to the County Clerk. All such claims must be in
writing and items shall be specified.
   (B)   Exception. This does not prohibit the County Board from passing on any
claims not previously presented to the County Clerk if, in the opinion of the
Board, justice to the claimant requires it.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3)
§ 34.005 SPACE HEATERS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   All space heaters and candles shall be removed from the county offices and
shall be prohibited from being in the buildings. All extension cords used as a
part of a permanent wiring arrangement shall be removed from service and all
electrical appliances be plugged directly into a wall outlet or an approved
surge protector.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4) (Ord. 10-17-05, passed - -)
§ 34.006 ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The county does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund.
   (B)   The county includes in its levy and appropriation ordinance provisions
for the levying of a special tax to pay the county’s cost of participating in
the Retirement Fund and appropriate funds therefrom to pay the cost of
participation.
   (C)   Elected officials may participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund if they are in positions normally requiring performance of duty for 600
hours or more per year.
   (D)   The County Board does hereby elect to allow service credit to members
who served in the armed forces of the United States for up to two years of
service, prior to their participation in the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund.
   (E)   The County Board does hereby adopt the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund alternative benefit program for county officers as provided in §§ 7-145.1
and 7-145.2 of the Illinois Pension Code, being 40 ILCS 5/7-145.1 and 7-145.2.
This program shall take effect November 1, 1997; and the County Clerk is hereby
authorized and directed to promptly file a certified copy of this section with
the Board of Trustees of the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5) (Ord. 97-57, passed - -; Ord. 97-46, passed 9-15-1999)
§ 34.007 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR’S INSURANCE SYSTEM.
   (A)   ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES shall mean all employees of the county, eligible
under the Federal Act.
   (B)   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided in sections hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and
at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6)
§ 34.008 COUNTY BOARD SALARIES.
   The per diem for members of the County Board shall be set at $70. The per
diem for the Chairperson, and the Vice Chairperson, when acting in the capacity
of Chairperson, shall be set at $85. This per diem shall be effective December
1, 2008.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-7) (Ord. 4-17-06, passed - -)
§ 34.009 COUNTY OFFICIAL SALARIES.
   (A)   County Clerk. The salary shall be as set forth from time to time by
the County Board.
   (B)   County Treasurer. The salary shall be as set forth from time to time
by the County Board.
   (C)   Supervisor of Assessments. The salary shall be as set forth from time
to time by the County Board.
   (D)   Circuit Clerk. The salary shall be as set forth from time to time by
the County Board.
   (E)   County Sheriff. The salary shall be as set forth from time to time by
the County Board.
   (F)   County Coroner. The salary shall be as set forth from time to time by
the County Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-8) (Ord. 04-17-06, passed - -; Ord. 04-49, passed 5-17-2004;
Ord. 16-14, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34.010 SMOKE-FREE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT. Any area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees are required to enter, leave or pass through during the
course of employment, including, but not limited to, entrances and exits to
places of employment, including a minimum distance, as set forth in § 70 of the
Smoke Free Illinois Act, of 15 feet from entrances, exits, windows that open,
and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited; offices and work areas; restrooms; conference and classrooms; break
rooms and cafeterias; and other common areas.
      PUBLIC PLACE. The portion of any building or vehicle used by and open to
the public, regardless of whether the building or vehicle is owned in whole or
in part by the county or any other public entity and regardless of whether a
fee is charged for admission, included a minimum distance, as set forth in § 70
of the Smoke Free Illinois Act, being 410 ILCS 82/70, of 15 feet from
entrances, exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited.
      SMOKING. The carrying, smoking, burning, inhaling or exhaling of any kind
of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, hookah, week, herbs or any other lighted
smoking equipment.
   (B)   Smoking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to smoke in any county buildings or public
places associated with the county.
      (2)   Smoking shall be prohibited within a minimum distance of 15 feet
from entrances, exits, windows that open and ventilation intakes that serve an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited under this law so as to ensure that
tobacco smoke does not enter the area through entrances, exits, open windows or
other means. (See Res. 10-15-90; 410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.)
(Prior Code, § 1-9-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.011 CONVENTION AND SEMINAR REIMBURSEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Employees who have been approved to attend a seminar or training
session by their department head are allowed to be reimbursed for the following
expenses at the rates set if there is sufficient money in the department
budget.
   (B)   The county will pay actual costs up to, but not exceeding, the
following, upon submission and approval of an itemized voucher:
 
Meals                                 $30 per day
Travel (by private auto - one payment $0.50 per mile
per vehicle)
Travel (by public transportation)     Actual cost (not to exceed mileage rate)
Registration (1)                      Actual (not to exceed $125)
Rooms (2)                             Single room rate
(1) If necessary books, publications or association dues are included in
registration fees, such items must be detailed to apply for approval of a
payment in excess of $100.
(2) If two authorized personnel stay in the same room, the county will pay the
total room cost, (half for each individual)
 
   (C)   Costs that are paid by another unit of government or another agency or
firm will not be paid in duplicate by the county.
   (D)   Any conventions, seminars or training sessions outside the state must
have advance County Board approval.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-10) (Ord. 90-34, passed - -1990)
§ 34.012 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SPILLS.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 22.2(f) of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act
(“IEPA”), being 415 ILCS 5/22.2(f), it is in the best interest of the County of
Effingham to deem any carrier responsible for hazardous material response
services rendered and costs incurred due to a hazmat load that spills on all or
part of a public way or property; and
   (B)   The county, or its agents, may direct the cleanup and containment at
its discretion in the interest of public safety or reopening a public way for
traffic as quickly as possible.
(Ord. 17-33, passed 5-15-2017)
**** FRAUD/WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY ****
§ 34.025 PURPOSE OF POLICY.
   The purpose of this policy is to establish certain principles and
expectations for the county in order to prevent fraud, to investigate fraud and
to provide consequences for engaging in any manner of fraud and to heighten
awareness of possible fraud. The county will not tolerate fraud or the
concealment of fraud. This policy is intended to promote consistent
organizational behavior by providing guidelines and assigning responsibility
for the development of controls and conduct of investigations.
(Ord. 06-55, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 34.026 SCOPE OF POLICY.
   This policy applies to any irregularity, suspected or observed, involving
any employee of the county, vendors, contractors, volunteers, outside agencies
doing business with the county and any other persons or parties in a position
to commit fraud on the county. Any investigation required shall be conducted
without regard to the suspected wrongdoer’s length of service, position/title
or relationship with the county.
(Ord. 06-55, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 34.027 POLICY.
   The County Board is responsible for the detection and prevention of fraud,
misappropriations and other irregularities. Fraud includes, but is not limited
to, knowingly misrepresenting the truth or concealment of a material fact in
order to benefit personally, or to create a benefit for a family member/friend,
or to induce another to act to his or her detriment. Each department head will
be familiar with the types of improprieties that might occur within his or her
area of responsibility, and be alert for any indication of irregularity. Any
irregularity that is detected or suspected must be reported immediately to the
County Board Chairperson, and the County Board Chairperson will coordinate all
investigations with the State’s Attorney and other affected areas, both
internal and external.
(Ord. 06-55, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 34.028 ACTIONS CONSTITUTING FRAUD.
   Actions constituting fraud include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Falsifying, or unauthorized altering of county documents, including,
but not limited to:
      (1)   Claims for payments or reimbursements (including, but not limited
to, submitting false claims for travel or overtime);
      (2)   Files (both physical and electronic forms), photographic or audio
records, or accounts belonging to the county;
      (3)   Checks, bank drafts or any other financial documents;
      (4)   Maintenance records; or
      (5)   Fire, health and safety reports.
   (B)   Accepting or offering a bribe, gifts or other favors under
circumstances that indicate that the gift or favor was intended to influence an
employee’s decision making;
   (C)   Disclosing to other persons the purchasing/bidding activities engaged
in, or contemplated by the county in order to give any entity, person or
business an unfair advantage in the bid process;
   (D)   Causing the county to pay excessive prices or fees where justification
is not documented;
   (E)   Unauthorized destruction, theft, tampering or removal of records,
furniture, fixtures or equipment;
   (F)   Using the county’s equipment or work time for any outside private
business activity;
   (G)   Any dishonest or fraudulent act; or
   (H)   Impropriety in the handling or reporting of money or financial
transactions.
(Ord. 06-55, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 34.029 INVESTIGATION RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The County Board Chairperson, in consultation with the State’s
Attorney, has the primary responsibility for overseeing the investigation of
all suspected fraudulent acts as defined in the policy. If the investigation
substantiates that fraudulent activities have occurred, the County Board
Chairperson will issue reports to appropriate designated personnel and, if
appropriate, to the full County Board.
   (B)   Decisions to prosecute or refer the examination results to the
appropriate law enforcement and/or regulatory agencies for independent
investigation will be made in conjunction with the State’s Attorney and the
County Board, as will final decisions on disposition of the case. When an
investigation is conducted concerning complaints or charges against an
employee, the employee shall be accorded ethical treatment, due process of law,
and shall be offered fair and impartial consideration. All county employees
shall cooperate fully with appropriate authorities who are conducting
investigations into employee conduct.
(Ord. 06-55, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 34.030 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The County Board treats all information received confidentially.
Investigation results will not be disclosed or discussed with anyone other than
those who have a legitimate need to know and as may be required by law. This is
important in order to avoid damaging the reputations of persons suspected
unfairly of such conduct and to protect the county from potential civil
liability.
(Ord. 06-55, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 34.031 AUTHORIZATION FOR INVESTIGATING SUSPECTED FRAUD.
   The County Board Chairperson, in consultation with the State’s Attorney,
will have free and unrestricted access to all county records and premises,
whether owned or rented; and/or the authority to examine, copy, and/or remove
all or any portion of the contents of files, desks, cabinets and other storage
facilities on the premises, in cases of suspected fraud or official misconduct.
(Ord. 06-55, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 34.032 REPORTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Great care must be taken in the investigation of suspected
improprieties or irregularities so as to avoid mistaken accusations or alerting
suspected individuals that an investigation is under way until the appropriate
time.
   (B)   An employee who discovers or suspects fraudulent activity will contact
the County Board Chairperson immediately. The employee or other complainant may
remain anonymous. All inquiries concerning the activity under investigation
from the suspected individual, his or her attorney or representative, or any
other inquirer should be directed to the State’s Attorney. No information
concerning the status of an investigation will be given out. The proper
response to any inquiries is “I am not at liberty to discuss this matter.”
Under no circumstances should any reference be made to “the allegation”, “the
crime”, “the forgery”, “the misappropriation” or any other specific reference.
   (C)   The reporting individual should be instructed not to contact the
suspected individual in an effort to determine facts or demand restitution, or
discuss the case, facts, suspicions, or allegations with anyone unless
specifically asked to do so by the State’s Attorney or the County Board
Chairperson.
(Ord. 06-55, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 34.033 TERMINATION.
   If an investigation results in a recommendation to terminate an individual,
the recommendation should be reviewed for approval by the Personnel Committee
and the State’s Attorney and, if necessary, by outside counsel, before any
action is taken. The decision to terminate an employee is made by the elected
or appointed official, in consultation with the County Board.
(Ord. 06-55, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 34.034 PROTECTION OF REPORTING PERSON.
   No county employee shall be dismissed, disciplined or suffer an adverse
personnel action for disclosing information pursuant to the provisions of this
policy. Neither the county nor the elected or appointed official shall take any
adverse action that affects the rights or interests of a person in retaliation
for the person’s disclosure of information under this policy. The provisions
and protections of this policy shall not be applicable when an employee
discloses information which the employee either knows, or reasonably should
know, is false information.
(Ord. 06-55, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 34.035 ADMINISTRATION.
   The County Board Chairperson is responsible for the administration,
revision, interpretation and application of this policy. The policy will be
reviewed annually and revised as needed.
(Ord. 06-55, passed 8-21-2006)
**** INVESTMENT POLICY ****
§ 34.050 SCOPE OF POLICY.
   This investment policy applies to the investment activities of all funds
under the jurisdiction of the County Treasurer. This investment policy will
also apply to any new funds or temporary funds placed under the jurisdiction of
the County Treasurer. The state statutes will take precedence except where this
policy is more restrictive wherein this policy will take precedence.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 34.051 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The purpose of this investment policy is to establish cash management
and investment guidelines for the stewardship of public funds under the
jurisdiction of the County Treasurer.
   (B)   The specific objectives of this policy will be as follows.
      (1)   Safety. The security of monies, whether on hand or invested, shall
be the primary concern of the County Treasurer in selecting depositories or
investments.
      (2)   Return. The Treasurer shall seek to attain a market average or
better rate of return throughout budgetary and economic cycles, taking into
account restrictions for return on investment.
      (3)   Local considerations. The County Treasurer shall give preference to
depositories located within the county provided that the afore-described
objectives are met, and such investments would be in compliance with all other
conditions and limitations of this investment policy; however, the Treasurer
may approve qualified depositories regardless of location.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
§ 34.052 GUIDELINES.
   To assist in attaining the stated objectives, the following guidelines shall
be observed.
   (A)   Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to ensure
preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To avoid unreasonable risks
diversification of investments is desirable.
   (B)   The portfolio should remain sufficiently liquid to meet operating
requirements which may be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   To maximize earnings, all funds shall be deposited/invested within two
working days at prevailing rates or better.
   (D)   All investments except the Illinois Public Treasurer’s Investment Pool
shall be selected on the basis of competitive bids. Financial institutions
located within the county will be given preference. Investment will remain with
holding institution provided bid at maturity is equal to or higher than any
other bids. Investment will be moved from holding institution if a higher rate
of 15 basis points (0.15 or 1%) or more is received from another institution.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3)
§ 34.053 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All investment of funds under the control of the Treasurer is the direct
responsibility of the County Treasurer. The Treasurer shall be responsible for
all transactions and shall establish a system of control of the activities of
all subordinates who are directly involved in the assistance of such investment
activities.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-4)
§ 34.054 REPORTING.
   All investment transactions shall be recorded by the Treasurer or the
Treasurer’s staff. A report will be generated, at least monthly, listing all
active investments, location of investment, duration of investment, interest
rate and other pertinent information deemed necessary. This report will be
submitted monthly to the County Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5)
§ 34.055 INVESTMENT VEHICLES.
   The county shall limit its investments to those allowed by law as set out in
30 ILCS 235/2.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-6)
§ 34.056 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The Treasurer will have the sole responsibility to select which
financial (banks and non-bank) institutions will be depositories for the county
funds. Any financial institution, upon meeting the requirements of the state
statutes and of this policy, may request to become a depository for county
funds.
   (B)   The Treasurer will take into consideration security, size, location,
financial condition, service, fees, competitiveness and the community relations
involvement of the financial institution when choosing depositories.
   (C)   The following institutions are the official depositories for the
county:
      (1)   Beecher City First State Bank;
      (2)   Centrue Bank;
      (3)   Crossroads Bank;
      (4)   Fifth Third Bank;
      (5)   First Mid-Illinois Bank & Trust;
      (6)   First National Bank of Dieterich;
      (7)   Peoples National Bank;
      (8)   Land of Lincoln;
      (9)   Midland States Bank;
      (10)   Peoples Bank & Trust;
      (11)   Prairie National Bank;
      (12)   Teutopolis State Bank;
      (13)   U.S. Bank (IPTIP); and
      (14)   Washington Savings Bank.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-7)
§ 34.057 COLLATERALIZATION.
   (A)   At all times in order to meet the objective of safety of capital, the
Treasurer will require deposits in excess of the federally insured amount to be
collateralized to the extent of 110% and evidenced by an approved written
agreement.
   (B)   Eligible collateral instruments and collateral ratios (market value
divided by deposit) are as follows.
      (1)   Negotiable obligations of the United States government; 110%.
      (2)   Negotiable obligations of any agency or instrumentality of the
United States government guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United
States government; 110%; provided, however, that the principal of any such
negotiable obligation which is deposited pursuant to this policy shall not be
amortized during the life of the security.
      (3)   Maturity of acceptable collateral shall not exceed 120 months.
      (4)   The ratio of fair market value of collateral to the amount of funds
secured shall be reviewed monthly and additional collateral will be requested
when the ratio declines below the level required.
   (C)   Third party safekeeping is required for all collateral. To accomplish
this the securities will be held at a safekeeping depository as designated from
time to time by the County Treasurer. Safekeeping will be documented by an
approved written agreement. Substitution, exchange or release of securities
held in safekeeping may be done upon two days prior written notice to the
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-8)
§ 34.058 SAFEKEEPING OF SECURITIES.
   Securities, unless held physically by the Treasurer, require third party
safekeeping. The Treasurer will have the sole responsibility for selecting
safekeeping agents. Safekeeping will be documented by an approved written
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-9)
§ 34.059 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs. No investments shall be made
for speculation, but only made considering the probable safety of their capital
as well as the possible income to be derived.
   (B)   In maintaining its investment portfolio, the Treasurer shall avoid any
transaction that might impair public confidence in the County Treasurer’s
office.
   (C)   Investment officers and employees of the Treasurer, acting in
accordance with this investment policy and procedures as have been or may be
established, and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
liability for an individual security’s credit risk or market changes.
   (D)   The above standards are established as standards for professional
responsibility, and shall be applied in the context of managing the County
Treasurer’s portfolio.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-10)
§ 34.060 SECURITY CONTROLS.
   (A)   Only the Treasurer is authorized to establish financial accounts for
the office of County Treasurer.
   (B)   At all times, either the Treasurer, or signatories as designated by
the Treasurer should be authorized to sign on financial accounts of the office
of the Treasurer.
   (C)   Authorized signatories are not permitted to reconcile bank accounts at
any time.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-11)
§ 34.061 BONDING.
   The County Treasurer, deputies and all employees shall be bonded for the
benefit of the county for an amount determined to be reasonable. The surety
shall be a corporate surety company.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-12)
§ 34.062 AMENDMENT.
   This policy may be reviewed from time to time and revised upon approval of
the County Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-13)
§ 34.063 CAPTIONS AND HEADINGS.
   The captions and headings used herein are for convenience of reference only,
and do not define or limit the contents. See 30 ILCS 235 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-14) (Ord. 00-04, passed 1-17-2000)
**** EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY ****
§ 34.075 ADOPTION OF CODES.
   The county hereby declares to uphold, defend, enforce and advocate for all
laws related to equal employment opportunity including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d-
1 et seq., which prohibits discrimination in the participation in or benefits
of programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance on the basis
of race, color or national origin;
   (B)   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000c et
seq., which prohibits discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or
national origin in all employment practices including hiring, firing,
promotions, compensation and other terms, privileges and conditions of
employment;
   (C)   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, being 20 U.S.C. §§ 1681
- 1688, which prohibits discrimination in federally assisted education
programs;
   (D)   The Equal Pay Act of 1963, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., which
covers all employees who are covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29
U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq. The Act forbids pay differentials on the basis of sex;
   (E)   The Age Discrimination Act of 1967, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 621 et seq.,
which prohibits discrimination because of age against anyone between the ages
of 40 and 65;
   (F)   Federal Executive Order 11246 which requires every contract with
federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex or national origin;
   (G)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. § 794,
and POL Implementing Regulations at 29 C.F.R. pt. 32 which prohibits any
discrimination based on disability;
   (H)   Section 167 of JTPA, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 1501 et seq., and the U.S. POL
Regulations at 29 C.F.R. pts. 31 and 32 which provides that no person in the
United States shall be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits
of, or be subjected to discrimination on the basis of race, color or national
origin, under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance
from the Department of Labor;
   (I)   Chapter 68, Article I, § 17-19 of the Illinois Constitution which
prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
disability and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer; and
   (J)   The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101
et seq., which prohibits any discrimination against qualified individuals with
disabilities on the basis of their disability.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1)
§ 34.076 NON-DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   The county will assure non-discriminatory employment practices in
recruitment advertising, employment, placement, layoff or termination,
promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other forms of compensation and
use of facilities.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2)
§ 34.077 CONTRACTING WITH NON-COMPLIANTS.
   (A)   The county will not contract with other agencies, banks, businesses,
vendors and the like, who practice or establish a pattern of discrimination
based on sex, color, race, religion, age, national origin, political
affiliation or belief.
   (B)   The county will incorporate into any contract for construction work,
or modification thereof, subject to the relevant rules, regulations and orders
of the Secretary of Labor or of any prior authority that remain in effect,
which is paid for in whole or in part with the aid of such financial
assistance, the following “Equal Opportunity Clause”.
      (1)   The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, disability or
national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that
applicants are employed, and the employees are treated during employment,
without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, national origin or
disability. Such action shall include, but not be limited, to the following:
employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment
advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of
compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The
contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and
applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this
nondiscrimination clause.
      (2)   The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisement for
employees places by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin or disability.
      (3)   In the event of the contractor’s noncompliance with the equal
opportunity clause or with any of the said rules, regulations, and orders, this
contract may be canceled, terminated or suspended in whole or in part and the
contractor may be declared ineligible for further government contracts or
federally assisted construction contracts.
      (4)   The contractor will include the provisions of this equal
opportunity clause in every subcontract or purchase order, unless exempted by
the rules, regulations or orders of the Secretary of Labor so that such
provisions will be binding upon each such subcontractor or vendor.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3)
§ 34.078 OUTREACH TO ALL.
   The county assures that it will actively provide nondiscriminatory outreach,
selection and service to all individuals.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4)
§ 34.079 MINORITY HIRING.
   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job categories so
that minority employment in all categories of the work force will represent a
proportionate share of minority populations in the county as well as
surrounding areas.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5)
§ 34.080 ACCOMMODATIONS FOR DISABLED.
   The county will provide accommodations to the best of its ability for
employees with disabilities, contingent on budget and structural limitations.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6)
§ 34.081 COMPLIANCE BY EMPLOYEES.
   All county employees are expected to adhere to the above policy and to work
actively for its implementation both internally and in carrying out county
program activities.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7)
§ 34.082 DESIGNATED ENFORCERS.
   The county designates the Chairperson and the County Board to carry out the
EEO/AA plan.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8)
**** FREEDOM OF INFORMATION PROCEDURES ****
§ 34.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COPYING. The reproduction of any public record by means of any photographic,
electronic, mechanical or other process, device or means.
   FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT. The Illinois Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS
140/1.1 et seq.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, organization or
association, acting individually or as a group.
   PUBLIC RECORD. All records, reports, forms, writings, letters, memorandums,
books, papers, maps, photographs, microfilms, cards, tapes, recordings,
electronic data processing records, recorded information, and all other
documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having
been or being prepared, used, received, possessed or under control of the
county.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-1)
§ 34.096 POLICY.
   It is declared to be the public policy of the county that all persons are
entitled to full and complete information regarding the affairs of the county.
The official acts and policies of the public officials and public employees of
the county shall be consistent with the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-2)
§ 34.097 INDIVIDUAL PRIVACY PROTECTED.
   This subchapter is not intended to be used to violate individual policy, nor
for the purpose of furthering a commercial enterprise, or to disrupt the duly
undertaken work of the county.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-3)
§ 34.098 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Freedom of Information Act, being 5 ILCS
140.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-4)
§ 34.099 REQUESTS TO BE IN WRITING.
   (A)   All requests for inspection or copying of public records shall be in
writing and shall be addressed to the Clerk.
   (B)   The requestor shall include the following information in any request
for public records:
      (1)   The requestor’s full name, mailing address and telephone number at
which the requestor can be reached during normal business hours;
      (2)   A description of the records sought, being as specific as possible;
and
      (3)   A statement as to whether the request is for inspection, copying or
both.
   (C)   The Clerk shall make available a form for use by requesters; however,
no request shall be denied for failure to use the form.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-5)
§ 34.100 FEES.
   (A)   The county hereby establishes and shall charge fees reasonably
calculated to reimburse its actual cost for reproducing and certifying public
records and for the use, by any person, of the equipment of the county to copy
records. Such fees exclude the costs of any search for and review of the
record, and shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction and certification,
unless otherwise provided by state statute. The charge for copying (no charge
for the first 50 pages) shall be $0.25 per page for photocopies, $0.25 per page
for computer printouts, and $5 per audio tape. In the event materials must be
reproduced by copy services or by the County Engineer (e.g., large plan
sheets), the requestor shall be responsible for the actual charges.
   (B)   Documents shall be furnished without charge or at a reduced charge
where the County determines that waiver or reduction of the fee is in the
public interest because furnishing information can be considered as primarily
benefitting the general public. Waiver or reduction of the fee is in the public
interest if the principal purpose of the request is to access and disseminate
information regarding the health, safety and welfare or the legal rights of the
general public and is not for the principal purpose of personal or commercial
benefit. In setting the amount of the waiver or reduction, the county may take
into consideration the amount of materials requested and the cost of copying
them.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-6)
§ 34.101 TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLIANCE WITH REQUEST.
   The county shall either comply with or deny a request for public records
within seven working days after its receipt. Denials shall be in writing and in
accordance with §
34.105.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-7)
§ 34.102 EXTENSION OF TIME LIMIT; NOTICE.
   (A)   The time limit prescribed in §
34.101 may be extended in each case for not more than seven additional working
days for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The requested records are stored in whole or in part at other
locations other than the office having charge of the requested records;
      (2)   The request requires the collection of a substantial number of
specified records;
      (3)   The request is couched in categorical terms and requires an
extensive search for the records responsive to it;
      (4)   The requested records require examination and evaluation by
personnel having the necessary competence and discretion to determine if they
are exempt from disclosure under the terms of the Illinois Freedom of
Information Act or should be revealed only with appropriate deletions;
      (5)   The request for records cannot be complied with by the county
within the time limits prescribed by division (A)(4) above without unduly
burdening or interfering with the county;
      (6)   The requested records have not been located in the course of
routine search and additional efforts are being made to locate them; or
      (7)   There is a need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all
practicable speed, with another public body or among two or more components of
a public body having a substantial interest in the determination or in the
subject matter of the request.
   (B)   When additional time is required for any of the above reasons, the
Clerk shall notify the person making the request, by letter, within the time
limits specified in this section, of the reasons for the delay and the date by
which the records will be made available or denial will be forthcoming. In no
instance may the delay in processing last longer than seven working days. A
failure to render a decision within seven working days shall be considered a
denial of the request.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-8)
§ 34.103 UNDULY BURDENSOME REQUEST.
   (A)   Requests calling for all records falling within a category shall be
complied with unless compliance with the request would be unduly burdensome for
the county, there is no method of narrowing the request, and the burden on the
county strongly outweighs the public interest in the information. If the county
responds to a categorical request by stating that compliance would unduly
burden its operation, it shall do so in a writing signed by the Clerk
specifying the reasons why it would be unduly burdensome and the extent to
which compliance will so burden the operation of the county.
   (B)   After receipt of this response in writing, the person making the
request shall have an
opportunity to reduce the request to manageable proportions. If the person
making the request fails to reduce the request to manageable proportions, the
response of the county shall be treated as a denial of the request information.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-9)
§ 34.104 CERTAIN INFORMATION EXEMPT FROM INSPECTION AND COPYING.
   Information exempted by 5 ILCS 140/7 of the Freedom of Information Act shall
be exempt from inspection and copying. If a record contains both exempt and
nonexempt information, the exempt information shall be deleted and the
remainder of the record made available for inspection and copying.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-10)
§ 34.105 NOTICE OF DENIAL OF REQUEST; APPEALS.
   (A)   The Clerk, when denying a request for public record, shall notify the
requestor, by letter, of the decision to deny the information, and the reason
for the denial. Each notice of denial by the Clerk shall inform the person of
his or her right to appeal to the county in accordance with 5 ILCS 140/11 of
the Freedom of Information Act. When a request is denied on the grounds that
the records are exempt under the provisions of this subchapter, the notice of
denial shall specify the exemption claimed to authorize the denial and briefly
explain how the exemption applies to the specified records withheld.
   (B)   A requestor may appeal a denial of a request for public records to the
county. All appeals shall be in writing, shall be addressed to the county in an
envelope clearly marked “FOIA APPEAL”, and shall include a copy of the original
request, a copy of the denial or a statement that the county failed to respond
within seven working days; and a written statement setting forth the reasons
the requestor believes the appeal should be granted.
   (C)   The county shall respond in writing to an appeal within seven working
days of receipt thereof. Failure to respond shall be considered a denial of the
appeal. If the county denies an appeal in whole or in part, the requestor shall
be informed of his or her rights to judicial review under 5 ILCS 140/11 of the
Freedom of Information Act.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-11)
§ 34.106 GRANTING OF REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION.
   When a freedom of information request is granted, the documents will be made
available for inspection at the county during regular business hours. Copies
shall be made upon request as set forth in §
34.100.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-12)
§ 34.107 WRITTEN REQUEST NOT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The following documents shall be made available for inspection and
copying without a written request; however, the requestor shall contact the
Clerk or Deputy Clerk in advance to set a mutually convenient time.
   (B)   These documents, if copied, shall be subject to the copying fee set
forth in §
34.100:
      (1)   Ordinances and written resolutions;
      (2)   The journal of the County Board, not including executive session
minutes; and
      (3)   Any personnel code, building code, other technical code or any
other regulation of the county adopted by the county, whether by ordinance,
resolution or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-13)
§ 34.108 DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION ABOUT PUBLIC BODIES.
   The county shall prominently display at the county courthouse, make
available for inspection and copying without charge, and shall send through the
mail if requested, each of the following:
   (A)   A brief description of itself, which will include, but not be limited
to a short summary of its purpose, a block diagram giving its functional
subdivisions, the total amount of its operating budget, the number and location
of all of its separate offices, the approximate number of full and part-time
employees, and the identification and membership of any board, commission,
committee or council which operates in an advisory capacity relative to the
operation of the public body is required to report and be answerable for its
operations; and
   (B)   A brief description of the methods whereby the public may request
information and public records, a directory designating by titles and business
addresses those employees to whom requests for public records should be
directed, and any fees allowable under §
34.100.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-14)
§ 34.109 LIST OF CATEGORIES OF RECORDS.
   As to public records prepared or received after the effective date of this
subchapter, the County Clerk shall maintain and make available for inspection
and copying a reasonably current list of all types or categories of records
under its control. The list shall be reasonably detailed in order to aid
persons in obtaining access to public records pursuant to this subchapter. The
County Clerk shall furnish upon request a description of the manner in which
public records stored by means of electronic data processing may be obtained in
a form comprehensible to persons lacking knowledge of computer language or
printout format.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-15)
CHAPTER 35: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
9-1-1 Board
   
35.001   Board designation
   
35.002   Controlling legislation
   
35.003   Method of appointment of Board members
   
35.004   Powers and duties
   
35.005   Surcharge and other funds
   
35.006   Meetings
   
35.007   Removal of a member of the Board
   
35.008   Confidentiality
   
35.009   Annual budget and report
   
35.010   Vacancy on Board
Mental Health Board
   
35.025   Established
   
35.026   Composition
   
35.027   Term of office
   
35.028   Absenteeism
   
35.029   Expenses
   
35.030   Officers elected
   
35.031   Duties of officers
   
35.032   Meetings
   
35.033   Fiscal year
   
35.034   Powers and duties
   
35.035   Committees
   
35.036   Amendments
   
35.037   Annual budget and report
   
35.038   Tax levy; Community Mental Health Fund
Public Health Board
   
35.050   Board established
   
35.051   Service area
   
35.052   Board membership; term
   
35.053   Powers and duties
   
35.054   Annual budget and report
   
35.055   Tax levy; County Health Fund; use of funds
   
35.056   Meetings
   
35.057   Expenses of Board members; payment
   
35.058   Removal
   
35.059   Coordination
Mental Deficient Board
   
35.070   Board established
   
35.071   Membership; term
   
35.072   Meetings and responsibilities
   
35.073   Purchases
   
35.074   Donations accepted
   
35.075   Maintenance charge imposed
   
35.076   Calculation of rate
   
35.077   Financial inquiries of client
   
35.078   Use of facilities
   
35.079   Appeal of charges
   
35.080   Suit by state’s attorney
   
35.081   Estate claims
**** 9-1-1 BOARD ****
§ 35.001 BOARD DESIGNATION.
   The Board hereby created shall be referred to as the “Effingham County 9-1-
1 Emergency Telephone System Board” (“Board”).
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 35.002 CONTROLLING LEGISLATION.
   The Board is created and controlled by the Effingham Telephone System Act,
50 ILCS 750/0.01 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 35.003 METHOD OF APPOINTMENT OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   The County Board shall appoint each and every member of the Board by
majority vote. Said Board consists of nine members, the membership of which
shall be controlled by § 15.4(a) of the Act, and this chapter.
   (B)   The makeup of said Board shall be:
      (1)   One duly elected member of the County Board: two-year term;
      (2)   The duly elected Sheriff of the county or a representative of the
County Sheriff Department;
      (3)   Four residents of the county who shall be known as the “community
at large” members to serve a term of two years;
      (4)   Three members of Public Safety Emergency Organizations of the
county, i.e., Emergency Medical Service, Fire Protection, Law Enforcement and
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency: three-year term; and
      (5)   The County Board may remove any member of the Board by two-thirds
vote for any reason during the period of the member’s term.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 10-47, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 35.004 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The 9-1-1 Board shall have the power and duty to perform the following
functions granted under 50 ILCS 750/15.4:
   (A)   Planning of a 9-1-1 system;
   (B)   Coordinating and supervising the implementation, upgrading or
maintenance of the system, including the establishment of equipment
specifications and coding systems;
   (C)   Receiving monies from the surcharge imposed on county residents, and
from any other source, for deposit into the Emergency Telephone System Fund
(hereinafter Fund);
   (D)   Authorizing all disbursements from said Fund;
   (E)   Hiring, on a temporary basis, any staff necessary for the
implementation or upgrade of the system; and
   (F)   Empowered to incur indebtedness, and to pledge monies received or to
be received from said surcharge to secure indebtedness incurred by the 9-1-
1 Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 35.005 SURCHARGE AND OTHER FUNDS.
   The 9-1-1 Board shall have the power and duty to perform the following
functions granted under 50 ILCS 750/15.4:
   (A)   In accordance with the county resolution, and state statutes, the
Treasurer of the county shall be the Custodian of the Fund and establish an
Emergency Telephone System Fund (hereinafter Fund) in which all monies received
by the surcharge imposed shall be deposited;
   (B)   All interest accruing on the Fund shall remain in the Fund;
   (C)   No expenditures may be paid from said Fund except by resolution passed
or approved by a majority of members of the 9-1-1 Board;
   (D)   Expenditures from the amount of surcharges collected and the interest
accrued thereon, in the Fund may be made only to pay for the costs associated
with the following:
      (1)   The design of the emergency telephone system (hereinafter
“system”);
      (2)   The coding of an initial Master Street Address Guide database, and
update and maintenance thereof;
      (3)   The repayment of any monies advanced for the implementation of the
system;
      (4)   The charges for automatic number identification and automatic
location identification equipment, and maintenance, replacement and update
thereof;
      (5)   The non-recurring charges related to installation of the system and
the ongoing network charges; and
      (6)   Other products and services necessary for the implementation,
upgrade and maintenance of the system and any other purpose related to the
operation of the system, including costs attributable directly to the
construction, leasing or maintenance of any buildings or facilities or costs of
personnel attributable directly to the operation of the system. Costs
attributable directly to the operation of the system do not include the costs
of public safety agency personnel who are or equipment that is dispatched in
response to an emergency call.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 35.006 MEETINGS.
   The 9-1-1 Board shall prescribe the time and place of the regularly
scheduled Board meetings and the manner of which special Board meetings may be
called. It shall sit with open doors and shall keep a journal of its own
proceedings which shall be made available for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6)
§ 35.007 REMOVAL OF A MEMBER OF THE BOARD.
   A member of the 9-1-1 Board may be removed by the County Board Chairperson,
with the advice and consent of the County Board, for neglect of duty, for not
attending a board meeting on at least two occasions in any one calendar year
without an excused absence, for misconduct and misfeasance in office after
being given a written statement of the charges and an opportunity to be heard
thereon.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 35.008 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Any information or data contained in documents furnished by
telecommunication carriers to the 9-1-1 Board shall be held completely
confidential by the member of the 9-1-1 Board, its agents or employees.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 35.009 ANNUAL BUDGET AND REPORT.
   The 9-1-1 Board shall annually prepare and submit to the Chairperson of the
County Board and the full County Board the following reports:
   (A)   An annual budget, as part of the County Board appropriation, showing
the estimated receipts and intended disbursements for the fiscal year
immediately following the date the budget is submitted, which date must be at
least 30 days prior to the fiscal year;
   (B)   An annual report detailing the income received and disbursements made
during the fiscal year just preceding the date the annual report is submitted,
which date must be within 30 days of the close of the fiscal year;
   (C)   The annual report must be published within 30 days from the date of
submission;
   (D)   Both the annual report and the annual budget shall be made available
for public inspection; and
   (E)   All revenues and expenditures of the 9-1-1 Board shall be made a part
of the county’s financial system.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9)
§ 35.010 VACANCY ON BOARD.
   In the event that a 9-1-1 Board member ceases to be, for any reason, an
County Board member, a member of a local emergency organization or a duly
elected county official, said member’s term of appointment to the 9-1-1 Board
shall cease immediately, and the vacant seat shall be filled by appointment by
the County Board.
(50 ILCS 750/15.3) (Prior Code, § 4-1-10)
**** MENTAL HEALTH BOARD ****
§ 35.025 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established by the County Board, a Community Mental Health
Funding Board in accordance with 405 ILCS 20 et seq. and shall be hereinafter
referred to as the 708 Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 35.026 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The membership of this Board shall consist of seven members appointed
by the Chairperson of the County Board, subject to the approval of the County
Board.
   (B)   Ordinarily, there shall be one Board member from each of the following
groups: County Board of Commissioners, County Council for the Handicapped,
Medical Society and the Public Health Department. When appointments to the
Board are made, every effort should be made to make the Board representative of
the county looking to all criteria such as geography and occupation.
(405 ILCS 20/3a) (Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
§ 35.027 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The members shall serve for a period of four years. Appointments shall be
effective June 1 of each year.
(405 ILCS 20/3b) (Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
§ 35.028 ABSENTEEISM.
   Any member of the 708 Board deemed guilty of absenteeism, neglect of duty,
misconduct or malfeasance in office, by a vote of the majority of the 708 Board
and after being given a written statement of charges and an opportunity to be
heard thereon within 30 days of notification, may be removed by the appointing
officer. The Chairperson of the 708 Board, upon the recommendation of the
Board, may then recommend that the Chairperson of the County Board appoint a
new member to serve the unexpired term of the recalled member. Absenteeism in
this instance shall consist of non-attendance at three consecutive Board
meetings without legitimate excuse (illness, vacation, out of community).
(405 ILCS 20/3c) (Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
§ 35.029 EXPENSES.
   The expenses incurred by the 708 Board in the performance of duties imposed
upon it or its members may be a charge on the governmental unit and shall be
paid out of the “708 Community Mental Health Fund”. No member shall receive
payment, except expenses for service on the Board.
(405 ILCS 20/3d) (Prior Code, § 4-2-5)
§ 35.030 OFFICERS ELECTED.
   (A)   The officers of the 708 Board shall be a Chairperson, Vice
Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer elected by the membership of the Board.
   (B)   Officers shall be elected for a full term of one year, and shall be
elected at the June meeting.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6)
§ 35.031 DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Chairperson. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the
Board. The Chairperson shall be an ex officio member of all committees and
cosigns checks with Treasurer.
   (B)   Vice Chairperson. The Vice-Chairperson shall in the absence or
incapacity of the Chairperson exercise the powers and perform the duties of the
Chairperson.
   (C)   Secretary. The Secretary or a designated representative shall record
the minutes of all meetings of the 708 Board and shall forward to each member
of the Board a copy of the minutes of the meeting, together with a notification
of the next meeting. The Secretary shall put a notice on the bulletin board in
the courthouse to notify the public of Board meetings. No release shall be
given in the name of the Board to news media without prior approval of the
Chairperson. The Secretary will keep a compilation of all official minutes of
the Board and Board committees which will be considered a public record.
   (D)   Treasurer. The Treasurer shall oversee the finances of the 708 Board.
The Treasurer will be an ex officio member of all financial committees. The
Treasurer will keep books, make financial reports at Board meetings, draw up
the Board proposed “Statement of Community Mental Health Fund Tax Levy” and
“Appropriation Resolution”, and cosign checks with the Chairperson. The
Treasurer will see to it that there is an annual budget submitted at least 30
days prior to the start of the fiscal year and see to it that the annual budget
is published in the county by newspaper prior to the annual meeting. The
Treasurer will make available within 60 days after the end of the fiscal year
for free distribution an annual report showing the condition of the trust, such
as income and expense reports. The Treasurer will develop a plan of investment
of unexpended funds so that there will be maximum accrual of interest and so
that all banks and financial institutions in the county will have equal access
to having these funds invested in their institution. The Treasurer will see to
it that the County Treasurer makes available to the 708 Board any and all funds
collected by the Assessor as soon as they are collected.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7)
§ 35.032 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The 708 Board shall hold regular meetings at a time
and place to be determined by the Chairperson of the Board. Meetings must be
held at least quarterly. The annual meeting of the Board shall be held in July
of each year. All official meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
Members shall not act in the name of the Board without the approval of the
Board through the Chairperson.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called upon written request
signed by two members and filed with the Secretary.
   (C)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of four voting members. The Chairperson
shall be a voting member.
   (D)   Passage or approval. Any proposition, in order to be approved, must
receive a majority vote of those present.
   (E)   Robert’s Rules of Order. The meetings of the Board shall be conducted
according to Robert’s Rules of Order.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-8)
§ 35.033 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year shall be considered to be from July 1 to June 30 of the
following year.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-9)
§ 35.034 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board in consultation with and being advised by the Department of
Mental Health, shall have the power to construct, repair, operate, maintain and
regulate community mental health facilities to provide mental health services,
including services for the mentally retarded, for residents of the county and/
or to contract therefor with any private or public entity which provided such
facilities and services.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power to:
      (1)   Review and evaluate community mental health services and
facilities;
      (2)   Provide Comprehensive Mental Health planning which would ordinarily
develop 12 month or five-year plans;
      (3)   Review and make recommendations on all grant applications to State
Department of Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities;
      (4)   Enter into contracts for rendition or operation of services and
facilities;
      (5)   Make rules and regulations concerning the rendition and/or
operations of services and facilities funded by the 708 Board;
      (6)   Employ such personnel as may be necessary to carry out the purposes
and to prescribe the duties of such personnel;
      (7)   To educate the public on mental health;
      (8)   To perform such other acts as may be necessary or proper to carry
out the purposes of the Board consistent with the regulations of the Community
Health Center Expansion Act, being 410 ILCS 66; and
      (9)   Own, sell, rent, lease or purchase real property for purposes
consistent with this Act.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-10)
§ 35.035 COMMITTEES.
   The Chairperson of the 708 Board may create and dissolve committees as
required and prescribe their powers and responsibilities. The Chairperson shall
appoint committee members provided, however, that no appointment goes into
effect if the 708 Board by majority vote opposes the appointment. Non-Board
members may serve on any and all Board committees. Ordinarily Board committees
will be appointed to time-limited tasks and will disband when the task is
complete.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-11)
§ 35.036 AMENDMENTS.
   These by-laws may be amended at any regular meeting by a two-thirds vote,
provided at least four members of the Board approve the recommended changes,
proposed changes shall have been read at least at one prior meeting.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-12)
§ 35.037 ANNUAL BUDGET AND REPORT.
   The Board shall annually prepare and submit to the appointing officer and
governing board:
   (A)   An annual budget showing the estimated receipts and intended
disbursements pursuant to this subchapter, for the fiscal year immediately
following the date the budget is submitted, which date must be at least 30 days
prior to the fiscal year; and
   (B)   An annual report detailing the income received and disbursements made
pursuant to this subchapter during the fiscal year, just preceding the date the
annual report is submitted, which date must be within 60 days of the close of
the fiscal year.
(405 ILCS 20/3f) (Prior Code, § 4-2-13)
§ 35.038 TAX LEVY; COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH FUND.
   In order to supply the necessary funds or to supplement existing funds for
such community mental health facilities and services, including facilities and
services for the mentally retarded, the County Board may levy an annual tax of
not to exceed 15% upon all taxable property in the county. Such tax, when
collected, shall be paid into a special fund to be designated as the “Community
Mental Health Fund”. The funds shall be used only for purposes specified in
this Article and pursuant to the provisions of the Community Mental Health Act.
(405 ILCS 20) (Prior Code, § 4-2-14)
**** PUBLIC HEALTH BOARD ****
§ 35.050 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Public Health Board for the county in
accordance with state statute and shall be known as the County Public Health
Board, hereinafter referred to as the Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 35.051 SERVICE AREA.
   Public health services shall be provided for all areas in the county.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)
§ 35.052 BOARD MEMBERSHIP; TERM.
   The Chairperson of the County Board shall, with the advice and consent of
the County Board, appoint a Board of Health consisting of nine members as
follows: two physicians, one dentist, one nurse, three at large and one County
Board member. The term of office of each member of the Board shall be for six
years. The term of office of original appointees shall begin on July 1
following their appointment, and the term of all members shall continue until
their successors are appointed. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
time in a similar manner as original appointments.
(55 ILCS 5/5-25012) (Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
§ 35.053 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board in consultation with and being advised by the Department of
Public Health, shall have the power to construct, repair, operate, maintain and
regulate health facilities to provide health services for residents of the
county and/or to contract therefore with any private or public entity which
provided such facilities and services.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power to:
      (1)   Review and evaluate health services and facilities;
      (2)   Submit to the appointing officer and governing body a program of
health services and facilities;
      (3)   Within amounts appropriated therefor, execute such program and
maintain such services and facilities as may be authorized under such
appropriations, including amounts appropriated under bond issues, if any;
      (4)   Enter into contracts for rendition or operation of services and
facilities on a per-capita basis or otherwise;
      (5)   Arrange for the rendition of services and operation of facilities
by other agencies of the governmental unit or county in which the governmental
unit is located with the approval of the governing body;
      (6)   Make rules and regulations concerning the rendition or operation of
services and facilities under its direction and supervision;
      (7)   Employ such personnel as may be necessary to carry out the purposes
of an act relating to health facilities and services and prescribe the duties
of such personnel; and
      (8)   To perform such other acts as may be necessary or proper to carry
out the purposes of the acts consistent with the regulations of the Director of
the Department of Public Health.
(55 ILCS 5/5-25013) (Prior Code, § 4-3-4)
§ 35.054 ANNUAL BUDGET AND REPORT.
   The Board shall annually prepare and submit to the appointing officer and
governing board:
   (A)   An annual budget showing the estimated receipts and intended
disbursements pursuant to this subchapter, for the fiscal year immediately
following the date the budget is submitted, which date must be at least 30 days
prior to the fiscal year;
   (B)   An annual report detailing the income received and disbursements made
pursuant to this subchapter during the fiscal year, just preceding the date the
annual report is submitted, which date must be within 30 days of the close of
the fiscal year; and
   (C)   The annual report must be published within 30 days from the date it is
submitted and approved and the budget and report shall be made available for
public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5)
§ 35.055 TAX LEVY; COUNTY HEALTH FUND; USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   In order to supply the necessary funds or to supplement existing funds
for such health facilities and services, the Board may request to levy an
annual tax of not to exceed .075% upon all taxable property in the county with
the consent and approval of the County Board. Such tax, when collected, shall
be paid into a special fund in the County Treasury to be designated as the
“Health Fund”.
   (B)   Said funds shall be used only for the purposes specified in this
subchapter and pursuant to the Public Health Act.
(55 ILCS 5/5-25010) (Prior Code, § 4-3-6)
§ 35.056 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall prescribe the time and places of the regular scheduled
Board meetings and the manner in which special Board meetings may be called.
   (B)   It shall sit upon open doors and shall keep a journal of its own
proceedings which shall be made available for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7)
§ 35.057 EXPENSES OF BOARD MEMBERS; PAYMENT.
   The expenses incurred by the Board in the performance of duties imposed upon
it or its members shall be paid out of the Health Fund.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-8)
§ 35.058 REMOVAL.
   Any member of the Board may be removed by the appointing officer for neglect
of duty, misconduct or malfeasance in officer after being given a written
statement of the charges and an opportunity to be heard thereon.
(55 ILCS 5/5-25012) (Prior Code, § 4-3-9)
§ 35.059 COORDINATION.
   In order to provide the broadest possible health program within the county,
the Board shall work with all outside groups providing such services to help
coordinate all programs and increase the services available to county residents
and prevent duplication of programs, except where necessary.
(55 ILCS 5/5-25001) (Prior Code, § 4-3-10)
**** MENTAL DEFICIENT BOARD ****
§ 35.070 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a 377 Mental Deficient Board which shall hereafter
be referred to as the “Board”.
(50 ILCS 835/0.01) (Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
§ 35.071 MEMBERSHIP; TERM.
   The County Board Chairperson shall appoint a board of five directors. Each
director shall serve a three year term expiring on June 30 of each year. The
terms shall be staggered with no more than two director’s terms expiring in any
one year. Vacancies shall be filled in like manner for the balance of the
unexpired term. Each director shall serve until his or her successor is
appointed. Directors shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed
for expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of their duties.
(50 ILCS 835/3) (Prior Code, § 4-4-2)
§ 35.072 MEETINGS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The directors shall meet in July, annually, and elect one of their
number as president and one as secretary, and shall elect such other officers
as they deem necessary. They shall adopt such rules for the administration of
this Act as may be proper and expedient. They shall report to the court, from
time to time, a detailed statement of their administration.
   (B)   The Board shall have exclusive control of all money paid into the Fund
for persons with a developmental disability and shall draw upon the County
Treasurer for all or any part of that fund required by the Board in the
performance of its duties and exercise of its powers under this Act.
   (C)   The Board may establish, maintain and equip facilities within the
county, for the care and treatment of persons with a developmental disability
together with such auxiliary facilities connected therewith as the Board finds
necessary. For those purposes, the Board may acquire, to be held in its name,
real and personal property within the county by gift, grant, legacy, purchase
or lease and may occupy, purchase, lease or erect an appropriate building or
buildings for the use of such facilities and all related facilities and
activities.
   (D)   The Board may provide for the care and treatment of persons with a
developmental disability who are not residents of the county and may establish
and collect reasonable charges for such services.
(50 ILCS 835/4) (Prior Code, § 4-4-3)
§ 35.073 PURCHASES.
   Purchases made pursuant to this Act shall be made in compliance with the
Local Government Prompt Payment Act.
(50 ILCS 835/4.1) (Prior Code, § 4-4-4)
§ 35.074 DONATIONS ACCEPTED.
   The board of directors may accept any donation of property for the purpose
specified and shall pay over to the County Treasurer any money so received,
within 30 days of the receipt thereof.
(50 ILCS 835/5) (Prior Code, § 4-4-5)
§ 35.075 MAINTENANCE CHARGE IMPOSED.
   The board of directors may impose a maintenance charge upon the estate of
any person with a developmental disability receiving the benefits of the
facilities or services prescribed in 50 ILCS 835/1 of the statutes. If the
estate of such person is insufficient, the parent or parents of such person are
liable for the payment of the amount due.
(50 ILCS 835/6) (Prior Code, § 4-4-6)
§ 35.076 CALCULATION OF RATE.
   The rate at which the sums to be so charged as provided in §
35.075 shall be calculated by the board of directors is the average per capita
operating cost for all persons receiving the benefit of such facilities or
services computed for each fiscal year; provided, that the Board may, in its
discretion, set the rate at a lesser amount than such average per capita cost.
Less amounts may be accepted by the Board when conditions warrant such action
or when money is offered by persons not liable under §
35.075. Any money received pursuant to this section shall be paid into the
County Fund for Persons with a Developmental Disability.
(50 ILCS 835/7) (Prior Code, § 4-4-7)
§ 35.077 FINANCIAL INQUIRIES OF CLIENT.
   The board of directors is authorized to investigate the financial condition
of each person liable under §
35.075, and is further authorized to make determinations of the ability of each
such person to pay the sums representing maintenance charges, and for such
purposes to set a standard as a basis of judgment of ability to pay, which
standard shall be recomputed periodically to reflect changes in the cost of
living and other pertinent factors, and to make provisions for unusual and
exceptional circumstances in the application of such standard. The Board may
issue to any person liable therefor statements of amounts due as maintenance
charges, requiring payment in such manner as may be arranged, in an amount not
exceeding the average per capita operating cost as determined under §
35.076.
(50 ILCS 835/8) (Prior Code, § 4-4-8)
§ 35.078 USE OF FACILITIES.
   The use of the facilities or services specified in 50 ILCS 835/1 of the
statutes shall not be limited or conditioned in any manner by the financial
status or ability to pay of any recipient or person responsible. Records
pertaining to the payment of maintenance charges shall not be made available
for inspection, but all such records shall be deemed confidential and used only
when required for the purpose of §
35.077.
(50 ILCS 835/9) (Prior Code, § 4-4-9)
§ 35.079 APPEAL OF CHARGES.
   Any person who has been issued a statement of any sum due for maintenance
charges for a person with a developmental disability may petition the board of
directors for a modification thereof, and the Board shall provide for a hearing
thereon. The Board may, after such hearing, grant such relief as seems proper.
(50 ILCS 835/10) (Prior Code, § 4-4-10)
§ 35.080 SUIT BY STATE’S ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Upon request of the board of directors, the State’s Attorney of the
county in which a person who is liable for payment of maintenance charges
resides shall file suit in the Circuit Court to collect the amount due. The
court may order the payment of sums due for maintenance for such period or
periods as the circumstances require. Such order may be entered against any or
all such defendants and may be based upon the proportionate ability of each
defendant to contribute to the payment of sums due. Orders for the payment of
money may be enforced by attachment as for contempt against the persons of the
defendants, and in addition as other judgments at law, and costs may be
adjudged against the defendants and apportioned among them, but if the
complaint is dismissed the costs shall be borne by the county.
   (B)   The provisions of the Civil Practice Law, and all amendments thereto,
shall apply to and govern all actions instituted under the provisions of this
Act.
(50 ILCS 835/11) (Prior Code, § 4-4-11)
§ 35.081 ESTATE CLAIMS.
   Upon the death of a person who is liable for maintenance charges imposed by
§
35.075 and who is possessed of property, the executor or administrator of his
or her estate shall ascertain from the board of directors the extent of such
charges. Such claim shall be allowed and paid as other lawful claims against
the estate.
(50 ILCS 835/12) (Prior Code, § 4-4-12)
CHAPTER 36: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
Civil Fees
   
36.001   Compliance with state law
   
36.002   Filing a complaint, petition or other pleading initiating a civil
action
   
36.003   Filing an appearance in a civil action
   
36.004   Miscellaneous fees
   
36.005   Unpaid fees
Criminal Assessments
   
36.015   Compliance with state law
   
36.016   Schedule 1: General felony offenses
   
36.017   Schedule 2: Felony DUI offenses
   
36.018   Schedule 3: Felony drug offenses
   
36.019   Schedule 4: Felony sex offenses
   
36.020   Schedule 5: Generic misdemeanor offenses
   
36.021   Schedule 6: Misdemeanor DUI offenses
   
36.022   Schedule 7: Misdemeanor drug offenses
   
36.023   Schedule 8: Misdemeanor sex offenses
   
36.024   Schedule 9: Major traffic offenses
   
36.025   Schedule 10: Minor traffic offenses
   
36.026   Schedule 10.5: Truck weight and load offenses
   
36.027   Schedule 11: Conservation offenses
   
36.028   Schedule 12: Dispositions under Supreme Court Rule 529 (traffic
offenses that do not require a court appearance)
   
36.029   Schedule 13: Petty offense, business offense, non-traffic ordinance
offense
   
36.030   Unpaid assessments
Miscellaneous Fees
   
36.040   Vehicle violations
   
36.041   Court service fee
   
36.042   GIS recording fee
   
36.043   Drug testing; electronic monitoring
   
36.044   County Clerk; vital records; fees and fund
   
36.045   Delinquent tax parcel
   
36.046   Property sales fees
   
36.047   Coroner
   
36.048   Public data requests
   
36.049   Sheriff
   
36.050   Law library fees
   
36.051   Recorder of Deeds’ office fees
   
36.052   Recording a document; nonconforming
   
36.053   Fee established; document storage system
   
36.054   Computer Equipment Fund established
   
36.055   Geographic information system fee
   
36.056   Jail medical
Taxpayers’ Rights Code
   
36.070   Title
   
36.071   Scope
   
36.072   Definitions
   
36.073   Notices
   
36.074   Late payment
   
36.075   Payment
   
36.076   Certain credits and refunds
   
36.077   Audit procedure
   
36.078   Appeal
   
36.079   Hearing
   
36.080   Interest and penalties
   
36.081   Abatement
   
36.082   Installment contracts
   
36.083   Statute of limitations
   
36.084   Voluntary disclosure
   
36.085   Publication of tax ordinances
   
36.086   Internal review procedure
   
36.087   Application
Sales Tax
   
36.100   Use tax
   
36.101   Service occupation tax
   
36.102   Retail occupation tax
   
36.103   Public safety tax
   
36.104   Occupation tax
Recorder of Deeds
   
36.115   Definitions
   
36.116   Tax imposed
   
36.117   Exempt deeds and trust documents
   
36.118   Proceeds to County Treasurer
   
36.119   Tax additional to others
   
36.120   Prior documents
9-1-1 Emergency Telephone Tax
   
36.135   Imposition of fee
   
36.136   Fee established
   
36.137   Accounting charge
   
36.138   Definitions
   
36.139   Imposition of surcharge
   
36.140   Surcharge due
   
36.141   Establishment of Fund
   
36.142   Reports to county
   
36.143   Amount paid but not due
Manufactured Home Tax
   
36.155   Definitions
   
36.156   Tax established
   
36.157   Registration form; contents
   
36.158   Delivery of registrations to County Clerk
   
36.159   Computation of tax; due date; distribution to districts
   
36.160   Error in tax bill
   
36.161   Reduction of privilege tax; conditions
   
36.162   Unpaid taxes; lien on manufactured home
   
36.163   Interest on delinquent taxes; penalty for fraud
   
36.164   Invalidity of provisions
   
36.165   Manufactured home dealers; notification
   
36.166   Moving permits; penalty
   
36.167   Violation
Hotel/Motel Tax
   
36.180   Definitions
   
36.181   Tax
   
36.182   Records to be kept
   
36.183   Returns
   
36.184   Collection
   
36.185   Proceeds of taxes
   
36.186   Use of funds
   
36.187   Certificate of registration
**** CIVIL FEES ****
§ 36.001 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   Fees in civil matters shall meet the requirements of, and shall be assessed
and distributed as set forth herein in compliance with, Section 27.1b of the
Clerks of Courts Act, 705 ILCS 105/27.1b.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.002 FILING A COMPLAINT, PETITION OR OTHER PLEADING INITIATING A CIVIL
ACTION.
   The fees for filing a complaint, petition or other pleading initiating a
civil action shall be as set forth in the following schedules in accordance
with case categories established by the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (A)   Schedule 1: $306 to be divided as follows:
      (1)   $45 to be retained by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and deposited
as follows:
         (a)   Court Automation Fund: $20;
         (b)   Court Document Storage Fund: $20;
         (c)   Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund: $5;
      (2)   $11 to be remitted to the State Treasurer and deposited as follows:
         (a)   Access to Justice Fund: $2;
         (b)   Supreme Court Special Purposes Fund: $9;
      (3)   $250 to be remitted to the County Treasurer and deposited as
follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $145;
         (b)   Court system: $40;
         (c)   Court security: $50;
         (d)   C.A.S.A.: $15.
   (B)   Schedule 2: $256 to be divided as follows:
      (1)   $45 to be retained by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and deposited
as follows:
         (a)   Court Automation Fund: $20;
         (b)   Court Document Storage Fund: $20;
         (c)   Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund: $5;
      (2)   $11 to be remitted to the State Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
         (a)   Access to Justice Fund: $2;
         (b)   Supreme Court Special Purposes Fund: $9;
      (3)   $200 to be remitted to the County Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $125;
         (b)   Court system: $30;
         (c)   Court security: $30;
         (d)   C.A.S.A.: $15.
   (C)   Schedule 3: $89 to be divided as follows:
      (1)   $22 to be retained by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and deposited
as follows:
         (a)   Court Automation Fund: $10;
         (b)   Court Document Storage Fund: $10;
         (c)   Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund: $2;
      (2)   $11 to be remitted to the State Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
         (a)   Access to Justice Fund: $2;
         (b)   Supreme Court Special Purposes Fund: $9;
      (3)   $56 to be remitted to the County Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $30;
         (b)   Court system: $6;
         (c)   Court security: $20.
   (D)   Schedule 4: $0.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.003 FILING AN APPEARANCE IN A CIVIL ACTION.
   The fees for filing an appearance in a civil action shall be as set forth in
the following schedules in accordance with case categories established by the
Illinois Supreme Court.
   (A)   Schedule 1: $181 to be divided as follows:
      (1)   $45 to be retained by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and
distributed as follows:
         (a)   Court Automation Fund: $20;
         (b)   Court Document Storage Fund: $20;
         (c)   Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund: $5;
      (2)   $11 to be remitted to the State Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
         (a)   Access to Justice Fund: $2;
         (b)   Supreme Court Special Purposes Fund: $9;
      (3)   $125 to be remitted to the County Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $60;
         (b)   Court system: $30;
         (c)   Court security: $35.
   (B)   Schedule 2: $109 to be divided as follows:
      (1)   $10 to be retained by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and
distributed as follows:
         (a)   Court Automation Fund: $5;
         (b)   Court Document Storage Fund: $5;
         (c)   Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund: $0;
      (2)   $9 to be remitted to the State Treasurer and distributed to the
Supreme Court Special Purposes Fund;
      (3)   $90 to be remitted to the County Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $45;
         (b)   Court system: $25;
         (c)   Court security: $20.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.004 MISCELLANEOUS FEES.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided, the following miscellaneous fees
are to be deposited in the County General Fund to be used for purposes related
to the operation of the court system in the county.
   (A)   Alias summons or citation: $3.
   (B)   Jury services: $200.
   (C)   Change of venue: $25.
   (D)   Petition to vacate or modify.
      (1)   If filed within 30 days: $40.
      (2)   If filed after 30 days: $60.
      (3)   Notice sent to Secretary of State: $40.
   (E)   Appeals preparation.
      (1)   If record is 100 pages or less: $50.
      (2)   If record is between 100 and 200 pages: $100.
      (3)   If record is 200 pages or more: additional fee of $0.25 per page.
   (F)   Garnishment, wage deduction, and citation proceedings.
      (1)   Amount in controversy $1,000 or less: $15.
      (2)   Amount in controversy greater than $1,000 and not more than $5,000:
$30.
      (3)   Amount in controversy greater than $5,000: $50.
   (G)   Collections.
      (1)   All collections (except state and county and maintenance and child
support cases): 2.5% of the amount collected and turned over.
      (2)   In child support and maintenance cases: $36 annually to be
deposited in the Child Support Maintenance Fund.
      (3)   Certifications to Secretary of State pursuant to § 7-703 of the
Family Financial Responsibility Law, 625 ILCS 5/7-703: $5.
      (4)   In proceedings to foreclose a delinquent real estate tax lien, the
State’s Attorney shall receive a fee of 10% of the total amount realized from
the sale of real estate sold in the proceedings.
   (H)   Mailing: $5 plus the cost of postage.
   (I)   For each certified copy of a judgment, following the first copy: $6.
   (J)   Certification, authentication and reproduction.
      (1)   Each certification or authentication for taking acknowledgment of a
deed or other instalment in writing with the seal of office: $6.
      (2)   Copy fees for any document contained in the Clerk’s files:
         (a)   $1 for the first page;
         (b)   $0.50 per page for the next 19 pages;
         (c)   $0.25 per page for all additional pages.
   (K)   For each record search: $5 for each year/name searched.
   (L)   For each page of hard copy print output, when case records are
maintained on an automated medium: $5.
   (M)   Performing a marriage in court: $10.
   (N)   For filing each deed of voluntary assignment:
      (1)   For recording a deed of voluntary assignment: $20;
      (2)   $0.50 for each 100 words.
   (O)   Expungement petition: $60 and an additional fee of $4 for each
certified copy of an order to expunge arrest records.
   (P)   Probate filing.
      (1)   For each account (other than one final account) filed in the estate
of a decedent or ward: $10.
      (2)   Filing a claim.
         (a)   Amount claimed greater than $150 and not more than $500: $10.
         (b)   Amount claimed greater than $500 and not more than $10,000: $20.
         (c)   Amount claimed greater than $10,000: $30.
      (3)   For filing a claim, petition or supplemental proceeding: $60.
      (4)   For a jury demand: $135.
      (5)   For each certified copy of letters of office: $2 per page.
      (6)   For each exemplification: $2 plus the fee for certification.
   (Q)   For correction of the case number, case title or attorney computer
identification number, if required by rule of court, on any document filed in
the Clerk’s Office: $20.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.005 UNPAID FEES.
   (A)   Unless a court-ordered payment schedule is implemented or the fee
requirements of this subchapter are waived by court order, the Clerk is
authorized to add to any unpaid fees and costs a delinquency amount equal to
15% of the unpaid fees that remain unpaid after 90 days.
   (B)   Delinquency amounts collected pursuant to this provision shall be
deposited into the Circuit Clerk Operations and Administration Fund to defray
additional administrative costs incurred by the Clerk in collecting unpaid fees
and costs.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
**** CRIMINAL ASSESSMENTS ****
§ 36.015 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   Criminal assessments shall meet the requirements of the Criminal and Traffic
Assessment Act, 705 ILCS 135. Assessments shall be imposed in criminal,
traffic, conservation and non-traffic matters in accordance with the schedules
set forth in 705 ILCS 135/15 et seq., and shall be distributed as set forth
herein.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.016 SCHEDULE 1: GENERAL FELONY OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $549 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $354 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $255 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $80;
         (b)   Court system: $60;
         (c)   Court security: $35;
         (d)   State’s Attorney Fund: $45;
         (e)   Youth Diversion Fund: $5;
         (f)   Drug Court Fund: $5;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $10;
         (h)   Clerk Operations Fund: $15;
      (5)   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
      (6)   $2 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
      (7)   $2 to the Public Defender Records Automation Fund;
      (8)   $20 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund;
      (9)   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund;
   (B)    $195 to the State Treasurer.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.017 SCHEDULE 2: FELONY DUI OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $1,709 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $399 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $300 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $80;
         (b)   Court system: $60;
         (c)   Court security: $35;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $45;
         (e)   Youth diversion: $15;
         (f)   Drug Court Fund: $15;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $20;
         (h)   Clerk Operations Fund: $30;
      (5)   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
      (6)   $2 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
      (7)   $2 to the Public Defender Records Automation Fund;
      (8)   $20 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund;
      (9)   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund;
   (B)   $1,110 to the State Treasurer;
   (C)   $200 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the arresting
agency.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.018 SCHEDULE 3: FELONY DRUG OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $2,215 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $354 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $255 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk: $80;
         (b)   Court system: $60;
         (c)   Court security: $35;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $45;
         (e)   Youth diversion: $5;
         (f)   Drug court: $5;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $10;
         (h)   Clerk operations: $15;
      (5)   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
      (6)   $2 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
      (7)   $2 to the Public Defender Records Automation Fund;
      (8)   $20 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund;
      (9)   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund;
   (B)   $1,861 to the State Treasurer.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.019 SCHEDULE 4: FELONY SEX OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $1,314 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $354 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $255 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $80;
         (b)   State’s Attorney: $60;
         (c)   Court security: $35;
         (d)   Court system: $45;
         (e)   Youth Diversion Fund: $5;
         (f)   Drug court: $5;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $10;
         (h)   Clerk operations: $15;
      (5)   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
      (6)   $2 to the State's Attorney Records Automation Fund;
      (7)   $2 to the Public Defender Records Automation Fund;
      (8)   $20 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund;
      (9)   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund;
   (B)   $960 to the State Treasurer.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.020 SCHEDULE 5: GENERIC MISDEMEANOR OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $439 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $282 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
      (5)   $185 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $50;
         (b)   Court system: $30;
         (c)   Court security: $30;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $30;
         (e)   Youth Diversion Fund: $5;
         (f)   Drug Court Fund: $5;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $20;
         (h)   Clerk Operations Fund: $15;
      (6)   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
      (7)   $2 to the State's Attorney Records Automation Fund;
      (8)   $2 to the Public Defender Records Automation Fund;
      (9)   $10 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund;
      (10)   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund;
   (B)   $155 to the State Treasurer;
   (C)   $2 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the arresting
agency.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.021 SCHEDULE 6: MISDEMEANOR DUI OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $1,381 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $322 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
      (5)   $225 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $50;
         (b)   Court system: $30;
         (c)   Court security: $35;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $40;
         (e)   Youth Diversion Fund: $10;
         (f)   Drug Court Fund: $10;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $20;
         (h)   Clerk Operations Fund: $30;
      (6)   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
      (7)   $2 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
      (8)   $2 to the Public Defender Records Automation Fund;
      (9)   $10 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund;
      (10)   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund;
   (B)   $707 to the State Treasurer;
   (C)   $352 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the arresting
agency.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.022 SCHEDULE 7: MISDEMEANOR DRUG OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $905 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $282 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
      (5)   $185 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund; $50;
         (b)   Court system: $30;
         (c)   Court security: $30;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $35;
         (e)   Youth Diversion Fund: $5;
         (f)   Drug Court Fund: $5;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $15;
         (h)   Clerk Operations Fund: $15;
      (6)   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
      (7)   $2 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
      (8)   $2 to the Public Defender Records Automation Fund;
      (9)   $10 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund;
      (10)   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund;
   (B)   $621 to the State Treasurer;
   (C)   $2 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the arresting
agency.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.023 SCHEDULE 8: MISDEMEANOR SEX OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $1,184 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $282 to the County Treasurer who shah deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
      (5)   $185 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $50;
         (b)   Court system: $30;
         (c)   Court security; $30;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $35;
         (e)   Youth Diversion Fund: $5;
         (f)   Drug Court Fund: $5;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $15;
         (h)   Clerk Operations Fund: $15;
      (6)   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
      (7)   $2 to the State's Attorney Records Automation Fund;
      (8)   $2 to the Public Defender Records Automation Fund;
      (9)   $10 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund;
      (10)   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund;
   (B)   $900 to the State Treasurer;
   (C)   $2 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the arresting
agency.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.024 SCHEDULE 9: MAJOR TRAFFIC OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $325 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $203 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
      (5)   $150 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $25;
         (b)   Court system; $30;
         (c)   Court security: $30;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $30;
         (e)   Youth Diversion Fund: $5;
         (f)   Drug Court Fund: $5;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $10;
         (h)   Clerk Operations Fund: $15;
   (B)   $97 to the State Treasurer;
   (C)   $25 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the arresting
agency.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.025 SCHEDULE 10: MINOR TRAFFIC OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $226 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $168 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $8 to the Chant Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
      (5)   $115 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $20;
         (b)   Court system: $10;
         (c)   Court security: $30;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $20;
         (e)   Youth Diversion Fund: $5;
         (f)   Drug Court Fund: $5;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $10;
         (h)   Clerk Operations Fund: $15;
   (B)   $46 to the State Treasurer;
   (C)   $12 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the arresting
agency.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.026 SCHEDULE 10.5: TRUCK WEIGHT AND LOAD OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $260 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $168 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
      (5)   $115 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $20;
         (b)   Court system: $10;
         (c)   Court security: $30;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $20;
         (e)   Youth Diversion Fund: $5;
         (f)   Drug Court Fund: $5;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $10;
         (h)   Clerk Operations Fund: $15;
   (B)   $92 to the State Treasurer.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.027 SCHEDULE 11: CONSERVATION OFFENSES.
   The Clerk shall collect $195 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $168 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
      (5)   $115 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $20;
         (b)   Court system: $10;
         (c)   Court security: $30;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $20;
         (e)   Youth Diversion Fund: $5;
         (f)   Drug Court Fund: $5;
         (g)   C.A.S.A.: $10;
         (h)   Clerk Operations Fund: $15;
   (B)   $25 to the State Treasurer;
   (C)   $2 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the arresting
agency.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.028 SCHEDULE 12: DISPOSITIONS UNDER SUPREME COURT RULE 529 (TRAFFIC
OFFENSES THAT DO NOT REQUIRE A COURT APPEARANCE).
   The Clerk shall collect $164 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $100 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Cleric Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
      (5)   $47 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $10;
         (b)   Court system: $5;
         (c)   Court security: $10;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $10;
         (e)   Clerk Operations Fund: $12;
   (B)   $14 to the State Treasurer;
   (C)   $50 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the arresting
agency.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.029 SCHEDULE 13: PETTY OFFENSE, BUSINESS OFFENSE, NON-TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
OFFENSE.
   The Clerk shall collect $100 and remit as follows:
   (A)   $75 to the County Treasurer who shall deposit the money as follows:
      (1)   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
      (2)   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
      (3)   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund;
      (4)   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
      (5)   $22 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
         (a)   Circuit Clerk Fund: $5;
         (b)   Court system: $5;
         (c)   Court security: $5;
         (d)   State’s Attorney: $5;
         (e)   Clerk Operations Fund: $2;
   (B)   $25 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the arresting
agency.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 36.030 UNPAID ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Unless a court-ordered payment schedule is implemented or the
assessment requirements of this subchapter are waived by court order, the Clerk
is authorized to add to any unpaid assessments a delinquency amount equal to
15% of the unpaid assessments that remain unpaid after 90 days.
   (B)   Delinquency amounts collected pursuant to this provision shall be
deposited into the Circuit Clerk Operations and Administration Fund to defray
additional administrative costs incurred by the Clerk in collecting unpaid
assessments.
(Ord. 19-52, passed 5-20-2019)
**** MISCELLANEOUS FEES ****
§ 36.40 VEHICLE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Fee established. The Circuit Clerk shall charge and collect a $5 fee
to be added to all fines imposed for violation of the Illinois Vehicle Code
other than § 11-501, being 625 ILCS 5/11-501 or violations of similar
provisions contained in county or municipal ordinances committed in the county,
and all civil cases, and up to a $30 fee to be added to all fines imposed for
violation of § 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-501 or
a violation of a similar provision contained in county or municipal ordinances
committed in the county. The proceeds of such fees shall be used to finance the
court system in the county.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-40)
   (B)   County Court System Finance Fund. The Circuit Clerk shall transfer
said fees to the County Treasurer monthly. The County Treasurer shall deposit
these funds in a separate fund account designated as the County Court System
Finance Fund, and make disbursements or transfers as directed by the County
Board. The County Treasurer shall provide a monthly accounting of the Fund,
including receipts, disbursements, transfers and any other fiscal activity, to
the County Board monthly. The County Board shall use the aforementioned funds
for the purpose intended by appropriation from time to time as may be required
or needed.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-41) (Ord. 86-27, passed - -)
§ 36.41 COURT SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   The Clerk of the Circuit Court shall charge and collect an amended fee
as a court security fee in all criminal cases upon disposition, except trauma
system administration of traffic court cases, and in all civil cases by each
party at the time of filing the first pleading, paper or other appearance,
provided that no additional fee shall be required if more than one party is
represented in a single pleading, paper or other appearance.
      (1)   In all civil cases, except those having a statutory exemption from
fees, payable by each party at the time of filing the first pleading, paper or
other appearance with no additional fee to be paid if more than one party
presents a single pleading, paper or other appearance, the fee shall be $25;
      (2)   In criminal, local ordinance, county ordinance, traffic and
conservation cases, payable by each defendant upon a plea of guilty,
stipulation of facts or finding of guilty, resulting in a judgement of
conviction or order of supervision, or sentence of probation without entry of
judgement pursuant to § 10 of the Cannabis Control Act being 720 ILCS 550/10, §
410 of the Illinois Controlled Substance Act being 720 ILCS 570/410, § 12-4.3
of the Criminal code of 1961, § 10-102 of the Illinois Alcoholism and Other
Drug Dependency Act, or § 10 of the Steroid Control Act, the fee shall be $25.
No fee shall be collected or imposed in traffic, conservation and ordinance
cases, which do not require a court appearance and the fines are paid by mail
or over the counter without a court appearance.
      (3)   The Chief Judge concurs with the County Board in its resolve to
raise the court security fee to $25 as outlined above effective January 1,
2004.
   (B)   Such fees shall be in addition to all other fees and charges of such
Clerk and assessable as costs and shall be remitted monthly by such Clerk to
the Treasurer of this county to be retained by such Treasurer in the General
Fund for payment solely of costs incurred by the Sheriff in providing court
security.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-45)
§ 36.042 GIS RECORDING FEE.
   The county has determined increasing fee in the amount of $3 is necessary to
defer the cost of providing the GIS system. Therefore, the fee of $12 will be
increased by $3 for a total to be charged of $15 for the filing of every
instrument, paper or notice submitted for recording; and that from such fees,
$14 shall be deposited into the special Geographic Information System Fund for
advancement of the countywide geographic information system to be disbursed
according to law, and the remaining $1 shall be deposited into the Recorder’s
special fund created under § 3-5005.4, to be used at the Recorder’s discretion.
This section shall take effect December 1, 2008 and shall remain in effect
until subsequently rescinded by action of this county.
(Ord. 08-65, passed 8-18-2008)
§ 36.043 DRUG TESTING; ELECTRONIC MONITORING.
   (A)   Pursuant to 730 ILCS 5/5-6-3(g) and 730 ILCS 5/5-6-3.1(g), an offender
sentenced to probation, conditional discharge or supervision, who is required
to undergo mandatory drug or alcohol testing or placed on electronic monitoring
may be ordered to pay all costs incidental to such mandatory drug or alcohol
testing and all costs incidental to such electronic monitoring in accordance
with the defendant’s ability to pay those costs. Whereas, the Honorable S. Gene
Schwann, Chief Judge of the Fourth Judicial Circuit, in accordance with the
County Board, has established reasonable fees for the costs of maintenance,
testing and other incidental expense related to the mandatory drug and alcohol
and electronic monitoring involved in a successful probation program for the
county. The fee to be paid is as follows:
      (1)   The fee for drug and alcohol testing shall not exceed $12 for each
field test and shall not exceed $75 for each laboratory tests to confirm a
positive field test; and
      (2)   The fee for electronic monitoring shall not exceed $15 per day.
   (B)   The fee for drug and alcohol testing shall not exceed $12 for each
field test performed by the Probation Department. The fee for drug and alcohol
testing shall not exceed $75 for each laboratory test.
   (C)   The fee for electronic monitoring shall not exceed $10 per day.
(Ord. 09-23, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 14-06, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 36.044 COUNTY CLERK; VITAL RECORDS; FEES AND FUND.
   (A)   Definition. VITAL RECORDS means records of births, deaths, fetal
deaths, marriages, dissolution of marriages and data-related thereto.
(Prior Code, § 36-8-1)
   (B)   Fee established. The County Clerk shall impose an additional $2 charge
for certified copies of vital records which are requested to be made by the
County Clerk’s office. That purpose to 55 ILCS 5/4-4001, the additional $2
charge is to be used for the sole purpose of defraying the costs of converting
the County Clerk’s document storage system for said vital records to computers
of micrographics, and for maintaining system.
(Prior Code, § 36-8-2)
   (C)   Special fund. The County Treasurer is hereby ordered to establish a
special fund for deposit of the monies collected as a result of said additional
charge. The monies collected shall be placed in said special fund and shall be
used solely to provide the equipment, material and necessary expenses incurred
to help defray the cost of implementing and maintaining the County Clerk’s
document storage system for vital records.
(Prior Code, § 36-8-3)
   (D)   Related fees. The following fees shall be collected by the County
Clerk; to-wit:
      (1)   Certified copies: $0.50/100 words, plus $1 for certification:
         (a)   Birth certificates/corrections $11.85; and
         (b)   Marriage or death certificates: $11.85.
      (2)   Fireworks permit: $16.70;
      (3)   Liquor permit:
         (a)   New liquor license: $23.60; and
         (b)   Renewal liquor permits: $17.35.
      (4)   Notarized affidavit: $1.30;
      (5)   Vehicular license: $12;
      (6)   Marriage license: $27;
      (7)   Certifying acknowledgment: $1.30;
      (8)   Attending tax sales for each tract or town lot sold: $29.15;
      (9)   Raffle permit: $16.70;
      (10)   Demolition report: $10;
      (11)   Birth, death, marriage search: $10;
      (12)   Certificate of authority: $10;
      (13)   Tax deed: $16.70
      (14)   Tax estimates/County Clerk fee: $23.55
      (15)   Special event license: $5;
      (16)   Peddler/solicitor license: $10;
      (17)   Registration of notary: $5.45
      (18)   Assumed name filing: $9;
      (19)   Plat certifications: $26.95;
      (20)   Freedom of information services: see county policy;
      (21)   Certificate of purchase surrendered: $32;
      (22)   Take notice: $10;
      (23)   Campaign disclosure: $13.35;
      (24)   Township maps: $5;
      (25)   Candidate petition copies: $12.70
      (26)   Absentee ballot listing: $8.40;
      (27)   Legislative district maps: $20.20;
      (28)   Precinct maps: $15.15;
      (29)   Petition of discovery: $410.90;
      (30)   Precinct lists: $8.40;
      (31)   County voter printout: $4.25; and
      (32)   Mailing labels per label: $0.07.
(Prior Code, § 36-8-4)
§ 36.045 DELINQUENT TAX PARCEL.
   (A)   Fee established. The County Treasurer as ex officio county collector
shall impose a $5 per parcel automation fee to the purchaser of property for
delinquent taxes.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-1)
   (B)   Special fund. The County Treasurer is hereby ordered to establish a
special fund for the deposit of the monies collected as a result of said $5 per
parcel automation fee. The monies collected shall be placed in said special
fund and shall be used solely to provide the equipment, material and necessary
expenses incurred to help defray the cost of implementing and maintaining an
automation system in the County Collector’s office.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2)
§ 36.046 PROPERTY SALES FEES.
   (A)   Fee established. The Treasurer may impose a fee of up to $60, payable
to the County Collector, upon each person purchasing any property at a sale
held pursuant to the Illinois Revenue Code prior to the issuance of any
certificate of purchase.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-4)
   (B)   Special fund. All sums of money received under this section shall be
deposited in a special fund with the principal and interest invested as
authorized by 55 ILCS 5/3-10009 and 5/3-10002. No payment shall be made from
the fund except by order of the court declaring a sale in error under 35 ILCS
200/21-310. Any monies accumulated in the fund in excess of $500,000 by the
County Treasurer shall be paid to the General Fund of the county prior to the
commencement of the annual tax sale.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-5)
§ 36.047 CORONER.
   The fees of the Coroner’s office shall be as follows.
   (A)   (1)   A copy of a transcript of sworn testimony: $3 per page.
      (2)   A copy of an autopsy report (if not included in transcript): $30.
      (3)   A copy of the verdict of a coroner’s jury: $5.
      (4)   A copy of a toxicology report: $15.
      (5)   A print of a picture obtained by the coroner: actual cost or $3,
whichever is greater.
      (6)   Each copy of miscellaneous reports, including artist’s drawings but
not including police reports: actual cost or $15, whichever is greater.
      (7)   A coroner’s or medical examiner’s permit to cremate a dead human
body: $10.
   (B)   All fees under this section collected by or on behalf of the Coroner’s
office shall be paid over to the County Treasurer and deposited into the
general fund of the county.
(Prior Code, § 36-10-1)
§ 36.048 PUBLIC DATA REQUESTS.
   (A)   Tax system. Any reports or files extracted from the county tax system
will be charged the following rates:
      (1)   Staff time: $56 per hour; and
      (2)   Computer time: $56 per hour.
      (3)   Requests to extract data from the tax system will be submitted by
the following offices and the fee for the request will be collected by the
office making the request:
         (a)   Assessor;
         (b)   Board of Review;
         (c)   County Clerk;
         (d)   Circuit Clerk;
         (e)   Mapping and Platting; and
         (f)   Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 36-11-1)
   (B)   Election system.
      (1)   Any reports or files extracted from the county election system will
be charged the following rates. Information may be printed on either paper or
labels.
 
Printed on                           Paper Labels
County-wide lists                    $85
Precinct                             $3.45 $5.85
Voter body                           $8.70
Voter body - zip code order                $62
Voter body - precinct zip code order $34
 
      (2)   The costs for an extracted file that is requested on a storage
medium other than paper will be charged at the same rate as a paper list.
Requests to extract data from the election system will be submitted by the
County Clerk’s office and the fee for the request will be collected by the
office making the request.
(Prior Code, § 36-11-2)
   (C)   Criminal justice system.
      (1)   Criminal justice system, including:
         (a)   Circuit Court;
         (b)   Circuit Clerk;
         (c)   State’s Attorney;
         (d)   Probation;
         (e)   Public Defender; and
         (f)   Sheriff.
      (2)   Any reports or files extracted from the county criminal justice
system will be charged the following rates:
         (a)   Staff time: $68 per hour; and
         (b)   Computer time: $68 per hour
(Prior Code, § 36-11-3)
   (D)   All other systems.
      (1)   All other systems, including:
         (a)   Civil courts system;
         (b)   Animal control;
         (c)   Recorder;
         (d)   Vital records;
         (e)   Child support;
         (f)   Personnel;
         (g)   Administration;
         (h)   Financial; and
         (i)   Law library.
      (2)   Any reports or files extracted from the systems listed above will
be charged the following rates:
         (a)   Staff time: $56 per hour; and
         (b)   Computer time: $56 per hour
(Prior Code, § 36-11-4)
§ 36.049 SHERIFF.
   (A)   Statement of law. The fees of the County Sheriff for the following
named services rendered in the county shall be as follows:
      (1)   For serving or attempting to serve summons on each defendant: $20;
      (2)   For serving or attempting to serve an order or judgment granting
injunctional relief: $20;
      (3)   For serving or attempting to serve each garnishee: $20;
      (4)   For serving or attempting to serve an order for replevin: $20;
      (5)   For serving or attempting to serve an order for attachment on each
defendant: $20;
      (6)   For serving or attempting to serve a warrant of arrest (to be paid
upon conviction):$20;
      (7)   For taking special bail: $20;
      (8)   For serving or attempting to serve a subpoena on each witness: $20;
      (9)   For returning each process in the county: $10; and
      (10)   For taking all bonds on legal process, civil and criminal: $10.
(Prior Code, § 36-12-1)
   (B)   Content of required documentation. The County Board has reviewed,
studied and prepared a statement of the costs of providing each service,
program and activity. All supporting documents are public records and are
subject to public examination and audit. With regard to the services specified,
the County Board has reviewed all direct and indirect costs, as defined in the
United States Office of Management and Budget Circular A-87, and has determined
that the cost per hour of a County Deputy Sheriff is $36.50 for the year 2003.
See 55 ILCS 5/4-5001.
(Prior Code, § 36-12-2)
(Ord. 03-58, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 36.050 LAW LIBRARY FEES.
   (A)   Fee established. The County Board does hereby establish a County Law
Library under the terms and provisions of “An Act in Relation to the
Establishment, Maintenance and Operation of County Law Libraries” (55 ILCS 5/5-
39001). The library shall be maintained from the funds resulting from the
collection of the County Law Library fee that is hereby established at $13. The
fee shall be paid at the time of filing of the first pleading, paper or other
appearance by each party in all civil cases, however no additional fee shall be
required if more than one party is represented by a single pleading.
(Prior Code, § 36-13-1)
   (B)   Law Library Fund. These fees shall be in addition to other fees and
charges of the Clerk, and assessable as costs, and shall be remitted monthly by
the Clerk to the County Treasurer, to be retained by him or her in a special
fund designated as the “Law Library Fund”.
(Prior Code, § 36-13-2)
§ 36.051 RECORDER OF DEEDS’ OFFICE FEES.
   The following fees are hereby established for the Recorder of Deeds’ office.
Minimum fee for recording most instruments                                  $20
(excepting certain assignments, liens, plats, condominiums, maps, surveys,  $1
UCC statements)                                                             each
Condominium plat                                                            $89
Financing statements (UCC’s)
8" x 5" standard form w/1 name                                              $26
Mr/Mrs or H&W noted Additional debtors names, address, DBA’s assignments,
amendments, partial releases and continuations terminations depending on    $13
original filing data (minimum)
Financing statement searches
Search per debtor name/per address                                          $13
Search per additional names or addresses                                    $13
Liens (Ill. Dept. of Revenue) U.S. Amer/federal certificates, notices
affecting liens and releases, discharge certificates, refilings,            $11
subordination Ill. or U.S. lien/release filings (per name) 2 pages
Certification (search) liens, certificates, notices, releases and the like
(only)
Applies to U.S. liens and the like (per name)                               $13
Monument record per instrument                                              $20
Oil, gas and mineral assignments (first 2 pages)                            $11
 
Ordinance/public entities; water, sewer services and the like
Ordinance including first 4 pages                             $25
Electronic image
Copy internet (per copy)                                      $4
CD Rom copy                                                   $50
 
(Prior Code, § 36-3-9)
§ 36.052 RECORDING A DOCUMENT; NONCONFORMING.
   (A)   The Recorder shall charge an additional fee, in an amount equal to the
fee otherwise provided by law, for recording a document (other than a document
filed under the Plat Act) that does not conform to the following standards.
      (1)   The document shall consist of one or more individual sheets
measuring eight and one-half inches by 11 inches, not permanently bound and not
a continuous form.
      (2)   The document shall be printed in black ink, typewritten or computer
generated.
      (3)   The document shall be on white paper of not less than 20-pound
weight and shall have a clean margin of at least one-half inch, not permanently
bound and not a continuous form.
      (4)   The first page of the document shall contain a blank space,
measuring at least three inches by five inches, in the upper right hand corner.
      (5)   The document shall not have any attachment stapled or otherwise
affixed to any page.
   (B)   A document that does not conform to these standards shall not be
recorded except upon payment of the additional fee of $12 required under this
section.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-10)
§ 36.053 FEE ESTABLISHED; DOCUMENT STORAGE SYSTEM.
   The Recorder shall charge and collect an additional fee of $3 for filing
every instrument, paper or notice for record, in order to defray the cost of
converting the County Recorder’s document storage system to computers or
micrographics. Note: this $3 fee is included in the above schedule of Recorder
fees.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-11)
§ 36.054 COMPUTER EQUIPMENT FUND ESTABLISHED.
   A special fund shall be set up by the Treasurer and such funds collected
pursuant to this chapter shall be used solely for a document storage system to
provide the equipment, materials and necessary expenses incurred to help defray
the cost of implementing and maintaining such a document record system. See 55
ILCS 5/3-5018.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-12)
§ 36.055 GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM FEE.
   (A)   Fee established.
      (1)   There is hereby established a $12 fee for every instrument paper or
notice for record in the Recorder of Deeds office. The fee shall be deposited
into the special fund established by the County Treasurer’s office. All these
funds shall be used solely for equipment, materials and necessary expenses
incurred in implementing and maintaining a Geographic Information System.
      (2)   From such fees, $11 shall be deposited into the special Geographic
Information System Fund for advancement of the countywide geographic
information system to be disbursed according to law, and the remaining $1 shall
be deposited into the Recorder’s special fund created under § 3-5005.4, to be
used at the Recorder’s discretion.
(55 ILCS 5/3-5018) (Prior Code, § 36-3-13)
   (B)   Additional fees. The attached fee schedule be and hereby is adopted as
the fees to be charged those persons or entities seeking GIS information from
the county.
 
GIS Data Fee Schedule
Printed map products      8.5" x 11" 11" x 17"     Poster
Printed parcel lines      $3         $5            $30
Printed parcel dimensions $5         $7            $40
Also available in exported digital form (.jpg or .tif; 200 dpi max) - via
email or CD ($1 extra for CD)
Orthophotography - leased Coverage   2' Resolution 0.5' resolution* Combined
Spring 2002               Tile       $50           $100
MrSid (cdrom) or  Entire county   $2,500            $2,500       $4,500
.tif (DVD)
                                                   *Eff- $1500, Lake Sara -
                                                    $1,000
                                                   Alt - $500, Town - $150
Internet          Access          Hours per day/wk/ Monthly Rate Yearly rate
Subscription      Classifications mo
-orthophotography Occasional      0.4/2/8           $20          $220
                  (weekly)
-tax parcels, w/  Regular (daily) 2/10/40           $35          $385
attribute         Unlimited (all                    $60          $660
information       day)
Custom map work   Analysis/map design               $40/hr (1/2-hr minimum)
 
(Prior Code, § 36-3-14) (Ord. 02-54, passed 12-16-2002; Ord. 05-13, passed 3-
21-2005)
§ 36.056 JAIL MEDICAL.
   (A)   Reimbursement established.
      (1)   There is hereby established pursuant to the authority granted to
the county by all relevant state and federal laws, including, but not limited
to, the following: 730 ILCS 125/17 provides that when medical or hospital
services are required by any person held in custody, the county, private
hospital, physician or any public agency which provides such services shall be
entitled to obtain reimbursement from the county or from the Arrestees’ Medical
Costs Fund to the extent that monies in the Fund are available for the cost of
such services.
      (2)   Further, pursuant to 730 ILCS 125/17, the County Board is
authorized to adopt an ordinance or resolution providing for reimbursement for
the cost of those services at the Department of Public Aid’s rates charges for
such services.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-16)
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this fee is to ease the financial burden on
the county for medical services for arrestees since public aid rates are
normally less than the usual rates charged for such services.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-17)
   (C)   Statement of law. The County Board, pursuant to the authority of the
County Jail Act, 730 ILCS 125/17, hereby declares that the county shall
reimburse private hospitals, physicians or other agencies providing medical
services to inmates of the county jail at the same rate as that paid by the
State Department of Public Aid for medical assistance.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-18)
(Ord. 04-73, passed 6-21-2004)
**** TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS CODE ****
§ 36.070 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Code”.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-1)
§ 36.071 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to the county’s procedures in
connection with all of the county’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-2)
§ 36.072 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being 50 ILCS 45/
1 et seq.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The County Board Chairman and Effingham County Board.
   COUNTY. The County of Effingham, Illinois.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the county
that is collected or administered by the county not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the county other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Effingham County Collector, is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator’s stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
code to give full effect to this code. The exercise of such authority by the
local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this code and the Act.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the county’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the county that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
county.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-3)
§ 36.073 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-4)
§ 36.074 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
county pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the county on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the county, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-5)
§ 36.075 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-6)
§ 36.076 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The county shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction; however, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The county shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the county.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the county.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-7)
§ 36.077 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this code.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the county.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the county. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
county’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-8)
§ 36.078 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax; the
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the county during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-9)
§ 36.079 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
36.078, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-10)
§ 36.080 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The county hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of the tax to be 12% per
annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty, of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the county issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 12% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-11)
§ 36.081 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-12)
§ 36.082 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The county may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-13)
§ 36.083 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The county, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing.
   (B)   The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the reviewed
tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still due and
owing.
      (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of
limitations shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in
which return for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in
which the return for the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax
return was filed by the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-14)
§ 36.084 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment form the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed; however, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator; however, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-15)
§ 36.085 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the County
Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-16)
§ 36.086 INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
   (B)   Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is
valid, the lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (C)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the local tax administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the county’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-17)
§ 36.087 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the county’s tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-18)
**** SALES TAX ****
§ 36.100 USE TAX.
   (A)   Use tax. A supplementary use tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege
of using any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside
Illinois at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an
agency of this state’s government, at a rate of 0.25% of the selling price of
such tangible personal property as “selling price” is defined in the Use Tax
Act, being 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq., approved July 14, 1955, as amended. The tax
shall be collected from persons whose Illinois address for titling or
registration purposes is given as being within the county.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-1)
   (B)   Administration of tax. Such persons in administering and accounting
for the tax are subject to the same rights, remedies, privileges, immunities,
powers and duties, and the same conditions, restrictions, limitations, found in
the Use Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq., as are now or hereafter amended,
unless otherwise noted or excepted in P.A. 84-163. See 55 ILCS 5/1-1001.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-2)
(Ord. 86-1, passed 1-17-1986)
§ 36.101 SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Service occupation tax. A supplementary service occupation tax is
hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of making sales of
service within the county, at the rate of 0.25% of the cost price of all
tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen either in the form of
tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a
sale of service.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-4)
   (B)   Administration of tax. Such persons in administering and accounting
for the tax are subject to the same rights, remedies, privileges, immunities,
powers and duties, and the same conditions, restrictions, limitations,
penalties and definitions of terms, and the same mode of procedures as found in
the Service Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 105 and Retailers Occupation Tax
Act, being 35 ILCS 120, respectively, as are now or hereafter amended, unless
otherwise noted. See 55 ILCS 5/1-1001.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-5)
(Ord. 86-1, passed 1-17-1986)
§ 36.102 RETAIL OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Retail occupation tax imposed. A supplementary retailers’ occupation
tax at a rate of 0.25% is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail within the county.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-7)
   (B)   Administration of tax. Such persons in administering and accounting
for the tax are subject to the same rights, remedies, privileges, immunities,
powers and duties, and the same conditions, restrictions, limitations,
penalties and definitions of terms, and the same mode of procedures as found in
the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 120, as are now or hereafter
amended, unless otherwise noted or excepted in P.A. 84-163. See 55 ILCS 5/1-
1001.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-8)
(Ord. 86-1, passed 1-17-1986)
§ 36.103 PUBLIC SAFETY TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property, other than personal property titled or
registered with an agency of the state’s government, at retail in this county
at the rate of 0.25% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course
of such business while this section is in effect; and a tax is hereby imposed
upon all persons engaged in this county in the business of making sales of
service, at the rate of 0.25% of the selling price of all tangible personal
property transferred by such serviceman as an incident to a sale of service.
Such special county occupation taxes for public safety shall not be applicable
to the sales of food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the
premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food
that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and non-
prescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics.
      (2)   The imposition of these public safety taxes is in accordance with
the provisions of §§ 5-1006.5(a) and 5-1006.5(b), of the Counties Code (55 ILCS
5/5-1006.5(a) and 55 ILCS 5/5-1006.5(b)).
   (B)   Penalties. The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may
be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department of Revenue of the state. The Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-11) (Ord. 05-30, passed 5-16-2005)
§ 36.104 OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property, other than personal property titled or
registered with an agency of the state’s government, at retail in this county
at the rate of 0.25% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course
of such business while this section is in effect; and a tax is hereby imposed
upon all persons engaged in this county in the business of making sales of
service, at the rate of 0.25% of the selling price of all tangible personal
property transferred by such serviceman as an incident to a sale of service.
Such special county occupation taxes for public safety shall not be applicable
to the sales of food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the
premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food
that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and non-
prescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics. The imposition of these
public safety taxes is in accordance with the provisions of §§ 5-1006.5(a) and
5-1006.5(b), of the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/5-1006.5(a) and 55 ILCS 5/5-1006.5
(b)).
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of
Revenue of the state. The Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
   (C)   The County Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this
section on or before the October 1, 2005.
   (D)   This section shall take effect on the first day of January next
following the adoption and filing of this section with the Department of
Revenue.
(Ord. 05-30, passed 5-16-2005)
**** RECORDER OF DEEDS ****
§ 36.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BENEFICIAL INTEREST. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The beneficial interest in a state land trust;
      (2)   The lessee interest in a ground lease (including any interest of
the lessee in the related improvements) that provides for a term of 30 or more
years when all options to renew or extend are included, whether or not any
portion of the term has expired; or
      (3)   The indirect interest in real property as reflected by a
controlling interest in a real estate entity.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, or a receiver,
executor, trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of
any court.
   RECORDATION. The recording of deeds by the Recorder of Deeds.
   VALUE. The amount of the full actual consideration thereof, including the
amount of any lien or liens assumed by the buyer.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-1)
§ 36.116 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   A tax is imposed on the privilege of transferring title to real estate
or beneficial interest in a land trust, as represented by the deed that is
filed for recordation, at the rate of $0.25 for each $500 of value or fraction
thereof stated in the declaration provided for in this section. If, however,
the real estate is transferred subject to a mortgage, the amount of the
mortgage remaining outstanding at the time of transfer shall not be included in
the basis of computing the tax.
   (B)   Such tax shall be collected by the Recorder of Deeds through the sale
of revenue stamps whose design, denominations and form shall be prescribed by
the Recorder of Deeds.
      (1)   The Recorder of Deeds may sell the revenue stamps at a rate of
$0.25 per $500 of value or fraction thereof.
      (2)   Except as provided in §
36.117, no deed or trust document shall be accepted for filing by the Recorder
of Deeds unless county revenue stamps in the required amount have been
purchased from the Recorder of Deeds. Such revenue stamp shall be affixed to
the deed or trust document by the Recorder of Deeds either before or after
recording as requested by the grantee.
      (3)   A person using or affixing a revenue stamp shall cancel it and so
deface it as to render it unfit for reuse by marking it with his or her
initials and the day, month and year when the affixing occurs. Such markings
shall be made by writing or stamping in indelible ink or by perforating with a
machine or punch; however, the revenue stamp shall not be so defaced as to
prevent ready determination of its denomination and genuineness.
   (C)   At such time as the tax levied by this subchapter is paid, there shall
be filed with the Recorder of Deeds a fully executed and completed copy of the
“Real Estate Transfer Declaration” required by provisions of 55 ILCS 5/5-1031.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-2)
§ 36.117 EXEMPT DEEDS AND TRUST DOCUMENTS.
   The following deeds and trust documents shall be exempt from the provisions
of this subchapter, except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   Deeds or trust documents representing real estate transfers made
before the adoption of this subchapter, but recorded after that date;
   (B)   Deeds or trust documents to property acquired by any governmental body
or from any governmental body or deeds or trust documents to property between
association, foundation or institution organized and operated exclusively for
charitable, religious or educational purposes;
   (C)   Deeds or trust documents which secure debt or other obligation;
   (D)   Deeds or trust documents which, without additional consideration,
confirm, correct, modify or supplement a deed previously recorded;
   (E)   Deeds or trust documents where the actual consideration is less than
$100;
   (F)   Deeds or trust documents of release of property which is security for
a debt or other obligation;
   (G)   Tax deeds or trust documents;
   (H)   Deeds or trust documents of partition;
   (I)   Deeds or trust documents made pursuant to mergers, consolidations or
transfers or sales of substantially all of the assets or corporations pursuant
to plans of reorganization;
   (J)   Deeds or trust documents made by a subsidiary corporation to its
parent corporation for no consideration other than the cancellation or
surrender of the subsidiary’s stock;
   (K)   Deeds or trust documents wherein there in an actual exchange of real
estate except that money difference or money’s worth paid for one to the other
shall not be exempt from the tax; and
   (L)   Deeds or trust documents representing transfers subject to the
imposition of a documentary’s stamp tax imposed by the government of the United
States, except that such deeds shall not be exempt from filing the declaration.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-3)
§ 36.118 PROCEEDS TO COUNTY TREASURER.
   All proceeds resulting from the collection of the tax imposed by this
subchapter shall be paid to the County Treasurer on a daily basis.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-4)
§ 36.119 TAX ADDITIONAL TO OTHERS.
   The tax herein imposed shall be in addition to all other occupation or
privilege taxes imposed by the state or by any municipal corporation or
political subdivision thereof.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-5)
§ 36.120 PRIOR DOCUMENTS.
   Documents filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county,
subsequent to June 1, 2005, on which have been affixed state real estate
transfer tax stamps at the rate of $0.50 per $500 valuation shall be construed
to be the collection of the state real estate transfer tax and the county real
estate transfer tax at the rate of $0.25 per $500 valuation respectively.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-6) (Ord. 05-26, passed 4-18-2005)
**** 9-1-1 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE TAX ****
§ 36.135 IMPOSITION OF FEE.
   A surcharge is hereby imposed, subject to the provisions of §
36.136, upon all telecommunications carriers engaged in the business of
transmitting messages by means of electricity originating within the corporate
limits of the county and terminating within the state for funding of a 9-1-
1 emergency telephone system.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-1)
§ 36.136 FEE ESTABLISHED.
   A surcharge is hereby imposed at a rate of $1 per month in-service network
connection, other than those network connections assigned to the county, where
the subscribers service address for each network connection(s) are located
within the corporate limits of the county. The SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the
location of the subscriber’s primary use of the network connection(s). A
network connection shall not be deemed in-service where a subscriber’s account
is uncollectible.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-2)
§ 36.137 ACCOUNTING CHARGE.
   In lieu of the telecommunication carriers imposing a 3% accounting and
collection charge on its subscribers as permitted under the “Act”, each
telecommunication carrier is hereby authorized and instructed to recover said
accounting and collection charge by deducting 3% from the amount of surcharge,
which is $1 per month, per in-service network connection, otherwise due and
owing the county prior to remittance under §§
36.140 and
36.141.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-3)
§ 36.138 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NETWORK CONNECTIONS. The number of voice grade communications channels
directly between a subscriber and a telecommunication carrier’s public switched
network without the intervention of any other telecommunication carrier’s
switched network which would be required to carry the subscribers inter-
premises traffic.
   TELECOMMUNICATION CARRIER. Any natural individual, form, trust, estate,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by the order of any
court engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of electricity.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. Has the meaning ascribed to a term in Chapter 24, §§
8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-4)
§ 36.139 IMPOSITION OF SURCHARGE.
   The surcharge shall be imposed on the first day of the month following the
expiration of 90 days from the date the County Clerk certifies to any of the
telecommunication carriers who are subject to the surcharge that the referendum
referred to in §
36.136 has passed.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-5)
§ 36.140 SURCHARGE DUE.
   The amount of the surcharge due and owing shall be paid to the county not
later than 90 days after the surcharge liability accrues, net of any network or
other 9-1-1 or sophisticated 9-1-1 system charge then due the particular
telecommunication carrier as shown on an itemized bill and the 3% accounting
and collection charge described in §
36.137.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-6)
§ 36.141 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   The County Treasurer is to create an emergency telephone system fund in
which all monies received by the surcharge imposed under this subchapter shall
be deposited. The County Treasurer is hereby deemed to be the custodian of the
Emergency Telephone System Fund. All interest accruing on the Emergency
Telephone System Fund shall remain in the fund. The surcharge due and owing by
the telecommunication carrier shall be remitted to the County Treasurer who
shall deposit said amount in the Emergency Telephone System Fund.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-7)
§ 36.142 REPORTS TO COUNTY.
   Simultaneously, with the remittance of the surcharge amount to the County
Treasurer, each telecommunication carrier shall make a return to the County
Treasurer and to any Emergency Telephone System Board which may be created in
the future, stating the following for the period for which the remittance
applies:
   (A)   The name of the telecommunications carrier;
   (B)   The telecommunication carrier’s principal place of business;
   (C)   The number of network connections to which a surcharge applies;
   (D)   The amount of surcharge due;
   (E)   Any amounts which may have been deducted by the telecommunication
carrier pursuant to this subchapter or pursuant to state statute; and
   (F)   Such other information as the county or an Emergency Telephone System
Board, which may hereafter be created, may require.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-8)
§ 36.143 AMOUNT PAID BUT NOT DUE.
   If it should appear that an amount of surcharge has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as a result of a mistake
of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credit against any
surcharge due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the
telecommunication carrier who made the erroneous payment. See 50 ILCS 750/15.3.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-9)
**** MANUFACTURED HOME TAX ****
§ 36.155 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory assembled structure designed for permanent
habitation and so constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily
or permanently attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the
location, or subsequent locations, and placement on a temporary foundation, at
which it is intended to be a permanent habitation, and situated so as designed
to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more persons,
provided that any such structure resting in whole on a permanent foundation,
with wheels, tongue and hitch removed at the time of registration provided for
in §
36.157, shall not be construed as a “mobile home”, but shall be assessed and
taxed as real property as defined by § 1 of the Revenue Act of 1939, filed May
17, 1939, as amended. MANUFACTURED HOMES owned by a corporation or partnership
and on which personal property taxes are paid as required under the Revenue Act
of 1939 shall not be subject to this tax. MANUFACTURED HOMES located on a
dealer’s lot for resale purposes or as an office shall not be subject to this
tax.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Has the meaning ascribed to it by § 2.5 of An Act to
Provide For, License and Regulate Mobile Homes and Mobile Home Parks and to
Repeal an Act Named Herein, approved September 8, 1971, as amended. See 210
ILCS 115/1.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. Available for habitation for a period of two or more
months.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-1)
§ 36.156 TAX ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Manufactured homes in addition to such taxes as provided in the Use
Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 105, shall be subject to the following privilege tax
only, and to no ad valorem tax. Except as provided in §
36.161, the owner of each inhabited manufactured home shall pay to the County
Treasurer of the county in which such manufactured home is located an annual
tax to be computed at the rate shown in the table below:
 
Tax Year Following Model Year of Manufactured Home  Tax Per Square Foot
Model year and 1st and 2nd year following           $0.15.0
3rd, 4th and 5th years following model year         $0.13.5
6th, 7th and 8th years following model year         $0.12.0
9th, 10th and 11th years following model year       $0.10.5
12th, 13th and 14th years following model year      $0.09.0
15th year following model year and subsequent years $0.07.5
 
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, the square footage shall be based
upon the outside dimensions of the manufactured home excluding the length of
the tongue and hitch. The owner of a manufactured home on January 1 of any year
shall be liable for the tax of that year, except that the owner of a
manufactured home on July 1, 1975, shall be liable for the tax for the period
of July 1, 1975 to December 31, 1975.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-2)
§ 36.157 REGISTRATION FORM; CONTENTS.
   The owner of each inhabited manufactured home located in this county on the
effective date of this subchapter shall, within 30 days after such date, file
with the Supervisor of Assessments a manufactured home registration form
containing the information hereinafter specified. Manufactured home park
operators shall forward a copy of the manufactured home registration form
provided in 210 ILCS 115/12, as amended to the Supervisor of Assessments within
five days of the entry of a manufactured home into such park. The owner of a
manufactured home not located in a manufactured home park shall, within 30 days
after initial placement of such manufactured home in the county and within 30
days after movement of such manufactured home to a new location, file with the
Supervisor of Assessments a manufactured home registration showing the name and
address of the owner and every occupant of the manufactured home, the location
of the manufactured home, the year of manufacture, and the square feet of floor
space contained in such manufactured home. Such registration shall also include
the license number of such manufactured home and of the towing vehicle, if
there be any, and the state issuing such licenses. The registration shall be
signed by the owner or occupant of the manufactured home. It is the duty of the
Supervisor of Assessments to require timely filling of a properly completed
registration for each manufactured home located in his or her county. Any
person furnishing misinformation for purposes of registration or failing to
file a required registration is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. See 35 ILCS
515/4 and 210 ILCS 115/1.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-3)
§ 36.158 DELIVERY OF REGISTRATIONS TO COUNTY CLERK.
   The Supervisor of Assessments, within seven days after filing of a
registration, shall deliver such registration to the County Clerk. See 35 ILCS
515/5.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-4)
§ 36.159 COMPUTATION OF TAX; DUE DATE; DISTRIBUTION TO DISTRICTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, within 60 days of receipt of
each registration form, the County Clerk shall compute the tax due, as provided
in §
36.156, and certify the tax to the County Treasurer who shall mail the tax bill
to the owner of such manufactured home at the time he or she receives the
certification or the annual billing date, whichever occurs later. If the
registration form is accompanied by a receipt for privilege taxes paid in the
state for the current tax year, no further privilege tax shall be imposed for
the remainder of the current tax year. If the manufactured home is initially
harbored after the annual liability date, as provided in § 
36.156, the County Clerk shall reduce such tax one-twelfth for each month that
has passed since such annual liability date. A manufactured home harbored after
the first day of such month shall be considered to have been harbored for the
entire month for the purposes of this section. Thereafter, except for the year
1975, the County Clerk shall compute such tax as June 1 of each year and
certify the tax to the County Treasurer. Such tax shall be due and payable to
the County Treasurer within 60 days after the Treasurer mails the tax bill to
the address of record. The County Treasurer shall distribute such taxes to the
local taxing districts within the boundaries of which such manufactured homes
are located, in the same proportion as the property taxes collectible for each
such taxing district in the prior year.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-5)
§ 36.160 ERROR IN TAX BILL.
   If a tax bill is in error as to the square footage of the manufactured home
or as to the rate of tax, the owner may file an affidavit with the County
Treasurer setting forth such error. If the tax bill does not show the name of
the correct owner, the person whose name appears as owner on the bill may file
an affidavit with the County Treasurer so stating the identifying the correct
owner, if known. Upon the filing of an affidavit as provided in this section,
the County Treasurer shall issue a corrected bill and shall so indicate on his
or her records. See 35 ILCS 515/7.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-6)
§ 36.161 REDUCTION OF PRIVILEGE TAX; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The privilege tax shall be reduced to 80% of the tax provided for in §
36.156 for the owners of manufactured homes who:
      (1)   Are actually residing in such manufactured homes;
      (2)   Hold title to such manufactured home as provided in the Illinois
Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5, approved September 29, 1969, as amended; and
      (3)   Are 65 years of age or older or are disabled persons within the
meaning of § 3.14 of the Senior Citizens and Disabled Persons Property Tax
Relief Act, being 320 ILCS 25/3.14 on the annual billing date.
   (B)   An application for reduction of the tax shall be filed with the County
Clerk by the individuals who are entitled to the reduction. If the application
is filed after May 1, the reduction in tax shall begin with the next annual
bill. Application for the reduction of tax shall be done by affidavit in
substantially the following form:
APPLICATION FOR REDUCTION OF MANUFACTURED HOME LOCAL SERVICES TAX
   I hereby make application for a reduction to eighty percent (80%) of the
total tax imposed under “An Act to Provide for a Privilege Tax on Mobile
Homes”.
   (A)   Senior Citizens.
      (1)   I actually reside in the manufactured home...
      (2)   I hold title to the manufactured home as provided in the Illinois
Vehicle Code...
      (3)   I reached the age of sixty-five (65) on or before either January 1
(or July 1) of the year in which this statement is filed. My date of birth
is...
   (B)   Disabled Persons.
      (1)   I actually reside in the manufactured home...
      (2)   I hold title to the manufactured home as provided in the Illinois
Vehicle Code...
      (3)   I was totally disabled on... and have remained disabled until the
date of this application. My Social Security, Veterans, Railroad or Civil
Service Total Disability Claim Number is... The undersigned declares under the
penalty of perjury that the above statements are true and correct.
Dated _________________________________, 20______
_______________________________
Signature of Owner
_______________________________
Address
Approved by:
_______________________________   
_____________________________________________
                  (City)             (State)      (Zip)
   This application shall be accompanied by a copy of the applicant’s most
recent application filed with the Illinois Department of Revenue under the
Senior Citizens and Disabled Persons Property Tax Relief Act, approved July 17,
1972, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-7)
§ 36.162 UNPAID TAXES; LIEN ON MANUFACTURED HOME.
   If any privilege tax imposed by this subchapter is not paid when due, the
County Treasurer of the county in which the manufactured home is located shall
have a lien on the manufactured home for the amount of the tax, addition to the
tax, penalty and interest due. Such lien shall terminate unless the County
Treasurer files with the County Recorder of the county in which the
manufactured home is located a notice of lien and files a financing statement
in the office of the Secretary of State pursuant to Article 9 of the Uniform
Commercial Code, being 810 ILCS 5/9-101 et seq., as now or hereafter amended
within two years of such tax due date. From the time of filing, the amount set
forth in the certificate also constitutes a lien upon all property of the
taxpayer then owned by him or her or thereafter acquired by him or her in the
period before the expiration of the lien. Such liens have the same force,
effect and priority as a judgment lien and continue for ten years from the date
of the recording unless sooner released or otherwise discharged. The County
Treasurer may, at any time, release all or any portion of the property subject
to any lien provided for in this subchapter or subordinate the lien to other
liens if he or she determines that the taxes are sufficiently secured by a lien
or other property of the taxpayer or that the release or subordination of the
lien will not endanger or jeopardize the collection of the taxes.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-8)
§ 36.163 INTEREST ON DELINQUENT TAXES; PENALTY FOR FRAUD.
   If any privilege tax, or part thereof, imposed by this subchapter is not
paid on or before the due date for such tax, interest on such amount at the
rate of 1.5% per month shall be paid for the period from such due date to the
date of payment of such amount. If such failure to pay such tax is the result
of fraud, there shall be added to the tax as a penalty an amount equal to 50%
of the deficiency. See 35 ILCS 515/9.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-9)
§ 36.164 INVALIDITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any section, division, sentence or clause of this subchapter shall be
adjudged unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of
the subchapter as a whole or of any section, division, sentence or clause
thereof not adjudged unconstitutional.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-10)
§ 36.165 MANUFACTURED HOME DEALERS; NOTIFICATION.
   Manufactured home dealers shall, within ten days after any retail sale and
delivery of a manufactured home, notify the County Clerk of the county in which
the point of delivery is located of the sale, the name of the purchaser, the
point at which delivery to the purchaser was made, and the serial number and
exterior measurements of the manufactured home.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-11)
§ 36.166 MOVING PERMITS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Before any manufactured home subject to the tax imposed by this
subchapter may be moved, the transporting company must obtain a permit from the
County Treasurer certifying that the tax on the manufactured home has been paid
for the current tax period.
   (B)   It shall be a Class B misdemeanor for any person or entity to move any
manufactured home or cause it to be moved a distance of more than one mile
without having received such permit from the taxpayer. It shall be a Class B
misdemeanor for any taxpayer to move any manufactured home or cause it to be
moved a distance of more than one mile without such permit having been issued
by the County Treasurer. This section does not apply to any person or entity
who moves a manufactured home or causes it to be moved pursuant to a court
order.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-12)
§ 36.167 VIOLATION.
   It shall be a violation of this code to fail to submit information required
under this subchapter or to knowingly submit any false information under this
subchapter. See 35 ILCS 515/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** HOTEL/MOTEL TAX ****
§ 36.180 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. The County of Effingham, an Illinois municipal corporation.
   HOTEL (which includes a MOTEL), OPERATOR, OCCUPANCY, ROOM or ROOMS,
PERMANENT RESIDENT, RENT or RENTAL, DEPARTMENT and PERSON. Have the meanings
provided in 35 ILCS 145/2 as that section may be in force from time to time.
   RETURN. Any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this
subchapter.
   TREASURER. The County Treasurer of the County of Effingham, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-1)
§ 36.181 TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed for the period commencing July 1,
1997 a tax of 5% of the gross rental receipts from the renting, leasing or
letting of a hotel or motel room within the county for each 24-hour period or
any portion thereof for which a daily room charge is made; provided, however,
that a tax shall not be levied or imposed upon any person who shall be a
permanent resident. A PERMANENT RESIDENT is hereby defined to be a person who
rents a hotel or motel room same establishment for more than 30 consecutive
days or to a person who works and lives in the same hotel or motel.
   (B)   Persons subject to the tax hereby imposed may reimburse themselves for
their tax liability for such tax by separately filing such tax as an additional
charge, which charge may be stated in combination and in single amount with the
state tax imposed under the Hotel Operator’s Occupation Tax Act, as provided in
35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.
   (C)   The tax herein levied and imposed shall be paid in addition to any and
all other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the operator to pay the
amount of the tax to the Treasurer under procedures prescribed by the Treasurer
or as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-2)
§ 36.182 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent
paid, charged or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon in such form as may
be required by regulation prescribed by the Treasurer or as otherwise provided
in this subchapter. Such records shall be available for inspection and
examination for any proper purpose at any reasonable time upon demand by the
Treasurer or a duly authorized agent or employee of the county and shall be
preserved for a period of three years unless the Treasurer shall prescribe a
shorter period of time.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere
with the Treasurer or the duly authorized deputy or representative of the
Treasurer in the discharge of the duties of the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.183 RETURNS.
   (A)   Every operator shall file monthly with the Treasurer a return of
occupancy and of rents and of the taxes payable thereon on forms prescribed by
the Treasurer and consistent with returns required under the Hotel Operator’s
Occupation Tax Act found in 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.
      (1)   The return shall be due on or before the last day of the calendar
month succeeding the end of the month filing period.
      (2)   A separate return shall be filed for each place of business within
the county, regardless of ownership.
   (B)   The first period for the purpose of this subchapter shall commence on
July 1, 1997, and the tax return and payment for such shall be due on or before
August 31, 1997. Thereafter, reporting and tax payments shall be in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter. At the time of filing such tax returns,
the operator shall pay the full amount of all tax due hereunder.
   (C)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of 1% per month shall be added and collected.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-4) (Ord. 97-40, passed 7-21-1997)
§ 36.184 COLLECTION.
   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax due hereunder or penalty, the
Treasurer shall bring or cause to be brought in the name of the county an
action to enforce payment of the tax in any court of competent jurisdiction,
together with the cost of such action.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-5)
§ 36.185 PROCEEDS OF TAXES.
   (A)   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax hereunder,
including penalties, shall be paid into the Treasury of the county and shall be
credited to and deposited in the corporate funds of the county.
   (B)   All such proceeds shall be separately accounted for by the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-6)
§ 36.186 USE OF FUNDS.
   All taxes and penalties received by the county hereunder shall be expended
by the county solely to promote tourism, conventions, expositions, theatrical,
sports, cultural and other special events within the county and otherwise to
attract non-residents to visit the county. The County Board will provide by
separate means for such expenditures, which methods may be changed from time to
time, consistent with the terms of this subchapter and the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-7)
§ 36.187 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any person to
engage in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel within
the county without a certificate of registration from the Treasurer. Such
registrations shall be issued by the Treasurer in forms consistent with those
registrations issued by the Department under the provisions of 35 ILCS 145/5.
(55 ILCS 5/5-1030) (Prior Code, § 36-6-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER WELLS
      
51.   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
      
52.   SOLID WASTE; LANDFILLS
CHAPTER 50: WATER WELLS
Section
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Adoption by reference
   
50.04   Water supply location, construction and repair
   
50.05   Disinfection and analysis
   
50.06   Exemptions
   
50.07   Storage and water lines
   
50.08   Permit required
   
50.09   Application for permit
   
50.10   Required inspection
   
50.11   Licensing of well drillers and pump installers
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is established to eliminate disease transmission and chemical
poisons through provision of a safe, potable, adequate supply of water for
drinking, culinary and sanitary purposes for every individual within the health
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system which serves at least 15
service connections used by residents or regularly serves at least 25 residents
at least 60 days a year.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Effingham County Health Department.
   NON-COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system that is not a community
water system, that has at least 15 service connections used by nonresidents, or
regularly serves 25 or more nonresident individuals daily for at least 60 days
a year.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system for the provision to the public of piped water
for human consumption, if the system has at least 15 service connections or
regularly serves an average of at least 60 days per year. The term PUBLIC WATER
SYSTEM includes any collection, treatment, storage and distribution facilities
under control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection
with such system and any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not
under such control which are used primarily in connection with such system.
   SEMI-PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A water supply which is not a public water
system, yet which services a segment of the public other than an owner-occupied
single-family dwelling.
   WATER WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, driven, dug or
otherwise constructed for the division, artificial recharge or acquisition of
ground water, but does not include wells for the purpose of obtaining or
prospecting for oil, natural gas, minerals or products of mining or quarry or
for inserting media to repressure oil or natural gas bearing formations or for
storing petroleum products, or monitoring wells.
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 50.03 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   In addition to those provisions set forth, this chapter shall be interpreted
and enforced in accordance with provisions set forth in the following statutes,
rules and regulations of the State Department of Public Health and any
subsequent amendments revisions thereto, which publications are incorporated
herein and adopted by reference as part of this chapter.
   (A)   Illinois Water Well Construction Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 920);
   (B)   Illinois Water Well Pump Installation Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 925);
   (C)   Public Area Sanitary Practice Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 895);
   (D)   Drinking Water Systems Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 900); and
   (E)   Surface Source Water Treatment Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 930).
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 50.04 WATER SUPPLY LOCATION, CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Water wells. Except as otherwise herein provided, the location,
construction, repair and disinfection of water wells, and the installation of
water well pumps, shall be in accordance with the requirements set forth by the
State Department of Public Health, State Water Well Construction Code (77 Ill.
Adm. Code 920) and State Water Well Pump Installation Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code
925), which are hereby made part of this chapter by reference. Copies of said
regulations shall be available at the County Health Department office. Wells
that are abandoned shall be sealed in a manner prescribed by the State Water
Well Construction Code.
   (B)   Surface water supplies. All water systems which receive their source
of water from ponds, lakes, streams, rivers or other surface collectors of
water shall be designed, constructed and operated in accordance with the State
Department of Public Health Surface Source Water Treatment Code (77 Ill. Adm.
Code 930).
   (C)   Cisterns. Cisterns shall not be used for a water supply except where
adequate groundwater resources are not available. Cistern water and surface
water supplies shall receive treatment in accordance with the State Department
of Public Health Surface Source Water Treatment Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 930).
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 50.05 DISINFECTION AND ANALYSIS.
   All components of a new water well construction and/or modification shall be
thoroughly disinfected with a strong chlorine solution which will yield a
dosage of at least 100 parts per million to the water in the well and piping
system. After purging the water system of any chlorine residual, a water sample
shall be taken and analyzed by a certified laboratory and satisfactory results
obtained prior to utilizing the water system for drinking and culinary
purposes. The copy of the analysis shall be filed with the County Health
Department. The water obtained from a semi-private water supply shall meet the
requirements of the Public Area Sanitary Practice Code, § 895.20b, and the
water obtained from a private well shall meet the bacteriological and nitrate
requirements of the Primary Drinking Water Standards (35 Ill. Adm. Code 611).
The water from a private water system, having surface water as its source,
shall meet the nitrate/nitrite, bacteriological and turbidity requirements of
the Primary Drinking Water Standards (35 Ill. Adm. Code 611). This will bring
this section up to date with the current references for water quality.
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 50.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The requirement for permit in this chapter shall not be applicable to wells
intended to serve a community public water supply system, and to monitoring
wells.
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 50.07 STORAGE AND WATER LINES.
   A minimum storage capacity excluding the water heater of 50 gallons for each
residence served, maintained at a minimum pressure of 20 pounds per square
inch, shall be provided.
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 50.08 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No water well shall be constructed or deepened in this county, except
in accordance with these regulations, and it shall be unlawful to proceed with
the construction of a potable water well without first obtaining a permit from
the County Health Department.
   (B)   All wells and pumps shall be maintained in a safe condition by the
owner.
   (C)   A non-community public water supply shall not be operated without
first obtaining a permit from the State Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for permits shall be in writing and in such form that shall be
prescribed by the County Health Department. Cost for the permit shall be the
current state fee for the same permit.
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 50.10 REQUIRED INSPECTION.
   The County Health Department shall be notified by telephone or in writing at
least 48 hours prior to the commencement of any work to construct or deepen a
water well for which a permit has been issued, or to seal a water well, boring
or monitoring well.
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 50.11 LICENSING OF WELL DRILLERS AND PUMP INSTALLERS.
   All individuals who construct water wells and install well pumps shall be
licensed by the State Department of Public Health in accordance with the Water
Well and Pump Installation Contractor’s License Act (225 ILCS 345/1).
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall
be fined not less than $100, nor more than $750. Each day the violation
continues shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 08-10, passed 3-17-2008)
CHAPTER 51: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Adoption by reference
   
51.03   Required area
   
51.04   Permit requirements
   
51.05   Compliance and performance
   
51.06   Issuance of notice
   
51.07   Hearings
   
51.08   Conflict
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. The legally designated Administrator or the
Acting Administrator of the Effingham County Health Department, and shall
include those persons designated by the Administrator or Acting Administrator
to enforce the provision of this chapter.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Effingham County Board of Health or its authorized
representative(s).
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Waste water derived principally from dwellings, business or
office buildings, institutions, food service establishments and similar
facilities.
   EFFLUENT RECEIVING TRENCH. A subsurface seepage field, seepage bed or
graveless seepage system used to reduce the amount of treated effluent
discharged to the ground surface from an approved private sewage disposal
system.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The person or persons who have been designated by the
Board of Health to administer the affairs of the Health Department.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Effingham County Health Department, including its
duly authorized representative(s).
   HOME OWNER. A contract-for-deed buyer or a person who holds legal title to a
residential structure which is to be used or is used for his or her personal,
single-family residence.
   HOME OWNER INSTALLED SYSTEM. A private sewage disposal system installed by a
home owner for his or her personal single-family residence.
   MODIFY. Any change in the design or components of a private sewage disposal
system requiring a permit herein defined.
   OPERATIONAL INSPECTION. An inspection of the private sewage disposal system
to determine compliance with this chapter by the Health Department.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Health Department permitting the
construction of a private sewage disposal system under this chapter.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage handling or treatment facility
receiving domestic sewage at a volume less than 1,500 gallons per day and
having a ground surface discharge or any sewage handling or treatment facility
receiving domestic sewage and having no ground surface discharge.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM INSTALLATION CONTRACTOR. Any person
excavating, constructing, installing, repairing, modifying or maintaining
private sewage disposal systems.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PUMPING CONTRACTOR.  Any person who cleans or
pumps waste from a private sewage disposal system or hauls or disposes of
wastes removed therefrom.
(Ord. 04-106, passed 10-18-2014)
§ 51.02 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   This chapter shall adopt by reference and shall be interpreted and enforced
in accordance with provisions set forth in the current, unabridged form of the
State Department of Public Health, Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and
Code, being 225 ILCS 225 and any subsequent amendments or revisions thereto,
which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference as part of this chapter,
three certified copies of which shall be on file in the office of the County
Clerk.
(Ord. 04-106, passed 10-18-2014)
§ 51.03 REQUIRED AREA.
   (A)   Lot size. Minimum lot size for a residential structure requiring a
private sewage disposal system, shall be one acre in size or as established by
the county subdivision ordinance (Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances),
whichever is greater. A larger area may be required for such lots if, in the
opinion of the Health Department, there are other factors of drainage, soil
conditions or other conditions which may cause potential health problems. Lots
platted and on record before the effective date of this chapter, for which
sewage plans were approved, will receive a variance from this section. A
smaller lot may be requested if a soil investigation or percolation tests
performed according to the Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code
determine the soil is suitable for a subsurface seepage field, or if a
community sewage collection system is proposed. If soils are suitable for a
subsurface seepage field, a surface discharging system may be installed
providing it is immediately followed by a seepage field designed and
constructed to be at least two-third the size determined necessary by § 905.60
of the Private Sewage Code. A variance may be granted if, in the opinion of the
Health Department, it is impractical or impossible to comply with the code and
an approved system can be installed and no potential health hazards will exist;
however, the area shall be large enough to provide for a second private sewage
disposal system of a size and type equivalent to the minimum system approved
for the lot.
   (B)   Subdivisions. The Health Department shall require persons who
subdivide property to furnish information concerning soil absorption
capacities, or require changes in a proposed subdivision plat, to reasonably
ascertain that each lot of said proposed subdivision will be able to support
the installation and subsequent use of an approved private sewage disposal
system as defined in the State Department of Public Health Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act and Code.
(Ord. 04-106, passed 10-18-2014)
§ 51.04 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or extend
individual domestic sewage disposal systems within the county unless he or she
holds a valid permit issued by the Health Department stating the name of such
person for which the specific construction, alteration or extension is
proposed.
   (B)   All applications for permits granted under the provision of this
chapter shall be made to the Health Department.
   (C)   A permit shall only be issued to a homeowner and/or a licensed private
sewage disposal system installation contractor installing a sewage disposal
system.
   (D)   Permit application forms provided by the Health Department shall be
completed and signed by each applicant and shall include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant and location of the proposed site
of construction, alteration or extension as proposed; and
      (2)   Complete plan of the proposed disposal facility, with
substantiating date, if necessary, attesting to its compliance with the minimum
standards of this chapter.
   (E)   The Health Department may refuse to grant a permit for the
construction of a private sewage disposal system where a sanitary sewage system
is available. A sewer shall be deemed available when a sanitary sewer line is
in place within any street, alley, right-of-way or easement that adjoins or
abuts the premises for which the permit is requested, or when the improvement
to be served is located within a reasonable distance of a public sewer to which
a connection is practical and is permitted by the controlling authority for the
sewer. A reasonable distance for the purpose of this provision shall be deemed
to be not greater than 200 feet for a single-family residence and not greater
than 1,000 feet for a commercial establishment, subdivision or multi-family
dwelling.
   (F)   The Health Department shall act upon all applications within 15 days
of receipt thereof.
   (G)   Said permit to construct is valid for a period of six months from date
of issuance. If construction has not started within this period, the permit is
void.
   (H)   Soil evaluations, as required by this chapter, shall be performed
according to the provisions of the Illinois Private Sewage Licensing Act and
Code, being 225 ILCS 225. Percolation tests may be performed by private sewage
disposal system installation contractors holding a valid private sewage
disposal system installation contractor license or the homeowner. The Health
Department reserves the right to determine the validity of any test and in
cases where more than one set of tests are performed the Health Department
shall determine which test results shall prevail. The Health Department shall
be notified at least one day prior to the performance of all tests and may
supervise any test.
   (I)   The Health Department shall be notified of any modification, change or
repair to any private sewage disposal system by either a homeowner or
contractor to determine whether that modification, change or repair requires a
permit as set forth in this chapter. The routine cleaning of disposal system
components, replacing septic tank covers, or rodding out inlet and outlets,
does not require a construction permit as defined in this chapter.
   (J)   There shall be a $100 fee charged for the initial construction permit,
alteration or extension of an individual sewage system as approved by the
Health Department. The fee shall be collected by the Health Department at the
time an application for permit is submitted.
(Ord. 04-106, passed 10-18-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 COMPLIANCE AND PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   All private sewage disposal systems within the limits of the county
shall be installed, modified or serviced by an individual with a valid private
sewage disposal system installation contractor license; and all such systems
shall be pumped, cleaned and the contents disposed of by individuals with a
valid private sewage disposal system pumping contractor’s license; provided,
however, that a homeowner may install and/or service a private sewage disposal
system which serves his or her own personal single-family residence.
   (B)   All septic tank and/or aerobic units manufactured, sold, offered for
sale or delivered in the county shall comply with provisions in this chapter.
   (C)   Any private sewage disposal system designed to surface discharge
permitted on or after the effective date of this chapter shall not discharge
any effluent directly into any body of water where full body contact activities
are allowed. A discharge within 75 feet of the above shall be considered a
direct discharge to the receiving body of water.
   (D)   When the discharge from any private sewage disposal system designed to
surface discharge may leave the homeowner’s property, that discharge shall
first enter an effluent receiving trench of no less than 100 square feet per
bedroom. The effluent receiving trench shall be installed so when full the
effluent discharge will bypass the trench. The final discharge to the surface
shall be chlorinated. The final discharge from a private sewage disposal system
shall remain on the property of the homeowner.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to discharge untreated sewage or the effluent
from any septic tank directly or indirectly to any stream, ditch, ground
surface, sink hole or abandoned well, or to allow the contents of any privy
vault, or septic tank or to emit offensive odors, to become objectionable,
dangerous or prejudicial to the public health.
   (F)   Private sewage disposal systems constructed prior to the effective
date of this chapter shall be updated to comply with the requirements of this
chapter when they require a permit to repair or replace that system.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of a property to give
the Health Department free access at reasonable times to any property that has
a private sewage disposal system on it for the purpose of making such
inspections as are necessary to determine compliance with the requirements of
this chapter. If the Health Department is denied access to the property, it
may, to the extent provided by law, obtain an administrative search warrant
with the assistance of the State’s Attorney Office for the purposes of this
chapter’s enforcement (225 ILCS 225/8(3)).
(Ord. 04-106, passed 10-18-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 ISSUANCE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Health Department determines that a violation of any
provision of this chapter has occurred, the Health Department shall give notice
to the person responsible for such violation; this notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for issuance of the notice;
      (3)   Allow reasonable time as determined by the Health Department for
performance of any act it required;
      (4)   Be served upon the person responsible for the violation(s);
provided that such notice shall have been properly served upon the person
responsible for the violations when a copy thereof has been sent by registered
or certified mail to his or her last known address as furnished to the Health
Department or when he or she has been served with such notice by any other
method authorized by laws of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which is required to effect
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   It shall not be a prerequisite to enforcement of the penalty
provisions of this chapter that the Health Department first resort to the
notice procedure set forth in division (A) above.
(Ord. 04-106, passed 10-18-2014)
§ 51.07 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Hearings before the Health Authority. Any person affected by an order
or notice issued by the Health Department in connection with the enforcement of
any section of this chapter, may file in the office of the Health Department a
written request for a hearing before the Health Authority. The Health Authority
shall hold a hearing at a time and place designated by the Health Department
within 30 days from the date on which the written request was filed. The
petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time and place of the
hearing not less than five days prior to the date on which the hearing is to be
held. If as a result of the hearing, the Health Authority finds that the public
health would be adequately protected and substantial justice done by varying or
withdrawing the order or notice, the Health Authority may modify or withdraw
the order or notice. The Health Authority shall render a decision within ten
days after the date of the hearing which shall be reduced to writing and placed
on file in the office of the Health Department as a matter of public record.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Health Authority may seek relief
therefrom through a hearing before the Board of Health.
   (B)   Hearing before the Board of Health. Any person aggrieved by the
decision of the Health Authority rendered as the result of a hearing held in
accordance with this section may file in the office of the Health Department a
written request for a hearing before the Board of Health at a time and place
designated by the Secretary of the Board of Health within 30 days of the date
on which the written request was filed. The petitioner for the hearing shall be
notified of the time and place of the hearing not less than five days prior to
the date on which the hearing is to be held. If, as a result of facts elicited
as a result of the hearing, the Board of Health finds that the public health
would be adequately protected and substantial justice done by granting a
variance from the decision of the Health Authority, the Board of Health may
grant a variance. The Board of Health will render a decision within ten days
after the date of the hearing which shall be reduced to writing and placed on
file in the office of the Health Department and a copy thereof shall be served
on the petitioner personally or by delivery to the petitioner by certified
mail.
(Ord. 04-106, passed 10-18-2014)
§ 51.08 CONFLICT.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or
code of the county existing on the effective date of this chapter, the
provision which, in the judgment of the Health Authority establishes the higher
standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
people shall prevail. In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to
be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code of the county
existing on the effective date of this chapter which establishes a lower
standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
people, and provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to prevail, and such
other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that
they may be found in conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. 04-106, passed 10-18-2014)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter may be fined a
sum of up to $500 for each offense. Each day of the violation shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (B)   The State’s Attorney of the county may bring such actions in the name
of the people of the state or may bring action for injunctive relief to
restrain such violation. Additionally, any person who violates any provision of
this chapter may be penalized in accordance with the State Department of Public
Health Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code, § 19 (225 ILCS 225/19).
   (C)   All monies collected from fines under this chapter shall be deposited
to the County Health Department Fund.
(Ord. 04-106, passed 10-18-2014)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE; LANDFILLS
Section
Solid Waste Disposal Facilities
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Fee
   
52.03   Exemptions
   
52.04   Fee imposed
   
52.05   Payment of fees
   
52.06   Deposit of fees
   
52.07   Expenditure of collected fees
Sanitary Landfills
   
52.20   Definitions
   
52.21   Duties of the County Board
   
52.22   Acts prohibited
   
52.23   Standards applicable to solid waste, hazardous waste and radioactive
waste land disposal facilities
   
52.24   Enforcement
   
52.25   Fees
 
   
52.99   Penalty
**** SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES ****
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   The county, a unit of local government as defined in the Local Solid Waste
Disposal Act, being 415 ILCS 10 has elected to establish a fee with regard to
the permanent disposal of solid waste. The fees collected shall be used for
solid waste management purposes, including long-term monitoring and maintenance
of landfills, planning, implementation, inspecting, enforcement and other
activities consistent with the Solid Waste Management Act, being 415 ILCS 20
and the Local Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 415 ILCS 10.
(Ord. passed 9-19-2005)
§ 52.02 FEE.
   All solid waste disposed of within the county at a solid waste disposal
facility, except for exempted materials, shall be subject to the following fee
schedule:
 
                     If more than 150,000 cubic yards of non-hazardous solid
                     waste is permanently disposed of at the site in a calendar
                     year, unless the owner or operator weighs the quantity of
$0.60 per cubic yard solid waste received with a device for which certification
                     has been obtained under the Weights and Measurement Act,
                     in which case a fee shall be $1.27 per ton of solid waste
                     permanently disposed of.
                     If more than 100,000 cubic yards, but more than 150,000
$33,350              cubic yards, of non-hazardous waste is permanently
                     disposed of at the site in a calendar year.
                     If more than 50,000 cubic yards, but not more than 100,000
$15,500              cubic yards, of non-hazardous waste is permanently
                     disposed of at the site in a calendar year.
                     If more than 10,000 cubic yards, but not more than 50,000
$4,650               cubic yards, of non-hazardous solid waste is permanently
                     disposed of at the site in a calendar year.
                     If not more than 10,000 cubic yards of non-hazardous solid
$650                 waste is permanently disposed of at the site in a calendar
                     year.
The county elects to impose the maximum allowable rate per ton or cubic yard as
set by statute under this chapter. To-wit, any increase in the allowable rate
per cubic yard or ton by statute shall automatically raise the rate per cubic
yard or ton in the ordinance to the maximum allowable rate, unless by
ordinance, the County Board, prior to the effective date of such change, elects
to impose a lower rate per ton or cubic yard than the maximum allowable rate.
 
(Ord. passed 9-19-2005)
§ 52.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The County Board shall grant the following exemptions.
      (1)   Any solid waste meeting all of the following criteria:
         (a)   Permanent disposal of the solid waste is pursuant to a written
contract between the owner or operator of the sanitary landfill and some other
person, or transport of the solid waste is pursuant to a written contract
between the transporter and some other person;
         (b)   The contract for permanent disposal or transport of solid waste
was lawfully executed on or before December 31, 1986, and by its express terms
continues beyond January 1, 1987, or was lawfully executed during 1987 or 1988
and by its express terms continues beyond January 1, 1989;
         (c)   The contract for permanent disposal or transport of solid waste
establishes a fixed fee or compensation, does not allow the operator or
transporter to pass the fee through to another party, and does not allow
voluntary cancellation or re-negotiation of the compensation or fee during the
term of the contract; and
         (d)   The contract was lawfully executed on or before December 31,
1986, and has not been amended at any time after that date, or was lawfully
executed during 1987 or 1988 and has not been amended on or after January 1,
1989.
      (2)   Exemptions granted under this provision shall cause the solid waste
received by an owner or operator of a sanitary landfill pursuant to a contract
exempted under this section to be disregarded in calculating the volume or
weight of solid waste permanently disposed of during a calendar year.
      (3)   Applications for exemptions under this provision may be granted
retroactively. Applications for retroactive or prospective exemptions must be
received by the State Environmental Protection Agency before March 1, 1989.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of an owner or operator of a sanitary landfill
to keep accurate records and to prove to the satisfaction of the I.E.P.A. and
the county the volume or weight of solid waste received under an exemption
during a calendar year.
      (5)   Exemptions under this provision shall expire upon the expiration,
renewal or amendment of the exempted contract, whichever occurs first.
   (B)   The fee shall not apply to:
      (1)   Waste which is hazardous waste;
      (2)   Waste which is pollution control waste;
      (3)   Waste from recycling, reclamation or reuse processes which have
been approved by the I.E.P.A. as being designed to remove any contaminant from
wastes so as to render such wastes reusable, provided that the process renders
at least 50% of the waste reusable;
      (4)   Non-hazardous solid waste that is received at a sanitary landfill
and composted or recycled through a process permitted by the I.E.P.A., or
      (5)   Any landfill which is permitted by the I.E.P.A. to receive only
demolition or construction debris or landscape waste.
   (C)   (1)   An exemption shall apply to permanent disposal or transport of
solid waste meeting all of the following criteria:
         (a)   The waste is non-putrescible and homogenous and does not contain
free liquids;
         (b)   Combustion of the waste would not provide practical energy
recovery or practical reduction in volume; and
         (c)   The applicant for exemption demonstrates that it is not
technologically and economically reasonable to recycle or reuse the waste.
      (2)   Exemptions granted under this provision shall cause the solid waste
exempted under division (A)(2) above which is permanently disposed of by an
owner or operator of a sanitary landfill to be disregarded in calculating the
volume or weight of solid waste permanently disposed of during a calendar year.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of an owner or operator of a sanitary landfill
to keep accurate records and to prove to the satisfaction of the I.E.P.A. and
the county the volume or weight of solid waste received under an exemption
during a calendar year.
(Ord. passed 9-19-2005)
§ 52.04 FEE IMPOSED.
   The fee imposed (per volume or weight) shall be calculated by the solid
waste disposal facility. The facility shall keep the tonnage or volume per
quarter and the exempt material to be subtracted from the total volume or
tonnage per quarter. The solid waste disposal facility shall file with the
County Clerk a record of total tons or cubic yards of solid waste received each
day during each quarter, tons or cubic yards exempted from tax and tons or
cubic yards subject to tax, with a monthly and quarterly total.
(Ord. passed 9-19-2005)
§ 52.05 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   All fees required to be paid pursuant to the terms of §
52.02 shall be due and owing on the fifteenth of the month following the
preceding quarter year in which the solid waste volume or weight is calculated;
pursuant to the following schedule: payment shall be due April 15 for January 1
through March 31; July 15 for April 1 through June 30; October 15 for July 1
through September 30; January 15 for October 1 through December 31 of each
year. All calculations shall run pursuant to the quarter calendar year
beginning in the calendar year 1994. The first payment shall be due and owing
under this chapter on January 15, 1995 from the fourth quarter calendar year
1994. Fees shall be payable to the County Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 9-19-2005)
§ 52.06 DEPOSIT OF FEES.
   All fees collected pursuant to this ordinance shall be deposited by the
County Treasurer in a special fund designated as the County Local Solid Waste
Fee Fund.
(Ord. passed 9-19-2005)
§ 52.07 EXPENDITURE OF COLLECTED FEES.
   The expenditure of any fees collected shall be by the direction and with the
approval of the County Board pursuant to purposes allowed by statute.
(Ord. passed 9-19-2005)
**** SANITARY LANDFILLS ****
§ 52.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AQUIFER. A geologic formation, group of formations or part of a formation
capable of yielding groundwater.
   BOARD. The County Board of Effingham County or any department, agency or
other county entity duly delegated the authority to perform acts hereunder by
the Effingham County Board.
   CONTAINMENT. Any solid, semisolid, liquid or gaseous matter, or any odor,
radioactive material, pollutant (as defined in the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.)) as in effect, hazardous waste (as
defined by the Federal Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.))
any constituent of a hazardous waste, radioactive waste or any combination
thereof, from whatever source, that:
      (1)   Is injurious to human health, plant or animal life, or property;
      (2)   Interferes unreasonably with the enjoyment of life or property; or
      (3)   Is otherwise violative of this chapter.
   COUNTY. Effingham County, Illinois.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking, handling or
placing of a solid waste, hazardous waste or radioactive waste into or on any
land or water so that such waste, or any constituent of such waste, may enter
the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters,
including groundwater.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A solid waste or combination of solid wastes that, because
of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics, may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
increase in serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible, illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise handled or managed.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE LAND DISPOSAL FACILITY. A plant or site where hazardous
waste is subjected to final land disposal, irrespective of whether the facility
was intended for the land disposal of hazardous wastes.
   LAND DISPOSAL FACILITY. A plant or site at which solid waste, hazardous
waste or radioactive waste is intentionally or unintentionally placed into or
on any land or water, including, but not limited to, landfills. The term does
not include underground storage tanks as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 280.12.
   LANDFILL. A land disposal facility where solid waste, hazardous waste or
radioactive waste is placed in or on land for final disposal, and which is not
a pile, a land treatment facility, as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 260.10, a surface
impoundment, a salt dome formation, a salt bed formation, an underground mine
or a cave.
   LEACHATE. Any liquid, including any suspended components in the liquid, that
has percolated through or drained from solid, hazardous or radioactive waste at
a land disposal facility.
   OPEN DUMP. The consolidation of solid waste, hazardous waste or radioactive
waste from one or more sources or the disposal of solid waste, hazardous waste
or radioactive waste at a single disposal site that does not fulfill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill or other approved land disposal method as
prescribed by applicable state federal laws or regulations, and that is
established and maintained without daily cover sufficient to prevent the escape
of dust, odors, contaminants or solid wastes, hazardous wastes or radioactive
wastes.
   OPEN DUMPING. The act of disposing of any solid waste, hazardous waste or
radioactive waste at an open dump.
   OPERATOR. The person responsible for the overall operation of a hazardous
waste, solid waste or radioactive wasteland disposal facility.
   OWNER. The person who owns a hazardous waste, solid waste or radioactive
wasteland disposal facility or part of a facility.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, municipal
corporation, city, school city, town, school town, school district, school
corporation, county, any consolidated unit of government, political
subdivision, state agency or any other legal entity.
   RADIOACTIVE WASTE. High-level radioactive waste, as defined in the Nuclear
Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 10101(12) and low-level
radioactive waste as defined in the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as
amended, 42 U.S.C. § 10101(16).
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant,
sludge from a water supply treatment plant, sludge from an air pollution
control facility, or other discarded material, including solid, liquid,
semisolid or contained gaseous material, resulting from industrial, commercial,
mining or agricultural operations, or from community activities.
   SOLID WASTE LAND DISPOSAL FACILITY. A plant or site where solid waste is
subjected to final land disposal, irrespective of whether the facility was
intended for the land disposal of solid wastes.
   UPPERMOST AQUIFER. The geologic formation nearest the natural ground surface
that is an aquifer, as well as lower aquifers that are hydraulically
interconnected with this aquifer, within a land disposal facility’s property
boundary.
   WATER POLLUTION.
      (1)   Actual or threatened alteration of the physical, thermal, chemical,
biological, bacteriological or radioactive properties of any waters; or
      (2)   The discharge or threatened discharge of any contaminant into any
waters that does or can create a nuisance or render the waters harmful,
detrimental or injurious to:
         (a)   Public health, safety or welfare;
         (b)   Domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational or
other legitimate uses; or
         (c)   Livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or aquatic life.
   WATERS. The accumulation of water, surface and underground, natural and
artificial, public and private, or parts thereof, including aquifers, that are
wholly or partially within, flow through, or border upon the county. The term
includes private ponds, reservoirs, surface impoundments, structures or
facilities built for collection or diversion of run-off at any land disposal
facility that drain into any other “waters” as defined herein.
   WORKING FACE. The portion of a land disposal facility where the solid and/or
hazardous waste is deposited.
(Prior Code, § 31-1-1)
§ 52.21 DUTIES OF THE COUNTY BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall conduct a program of continuing surveillance
monitoring and inspection of land disposal facilities and actual or threatened
sources of environmental pollution caused by the release of solid, hazardous or
radioactive waste from land disposal facilities in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall carry out the duties and exercise the powers provided
in this chapter.
   (C)   The Board shall establish and administer monitoring and reporting
requirements as necessary to carry out the duties and exercise the powers
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 31-1-2)
§ 52.22 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may cause, allow or threaten disposal of any solid waste,
hazardous waste or radioactive waste into the air, waters or land of the
county, except in accordance with a permit issued by the State Environmental
Protection Agency, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or other federal,
state or local administrative agency possessing authority to issue permits
governing such activities.
   (B)   No person may deposit any solid waste, hazardous waste or radioactive
waste upon the land in such manner as would create surface water pollution and/
or air pollution in the county, except as specifically provided for in a permit
issued by an administrative agency possessing the requisite permitting
authority.
   (C)   No person may cause or allow the open dumping of solid waste,
hazardous waste or radioactive waste or maintain an open dump in the county.
   (D)   No person may expose solid waste, hazardous waste or radioactive waste
to the open air in such place or manner as would create water pollution and/or
air pollution, including the release of any dust or noxious odor in the county,
except as specifically provided for in a permit issued by an administrative
agency possessing requisite permitting authority.
   (E)   No person may handle, dispose of or cause or allow the release of
solid waste, hazardous waste or radioactive waste so as to pollute any aquifer
or part of any aquifer in the county.
(Prior Code, § 31-1-3) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO SOLID WASTE, HAZARDOUS WASTE AND RADIOACTIVE
WASTE LAND DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Land disposal facilities are prohibited unless duly permitted
and authorized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, State Environmental
Protection Agency, State Department of Nuclear Safety, or other federal, state
or local governmental agency having authority over the location in which a
facilities is or shall be located, the construction of such facility, and the
operation of such facility.
      (2)   Any land disposal facility in existence as of January 1, 1994 and
not authorized under division (A)(1) above shall be closed and the owner or
operator shall commence removal of the solid waste, hazardous waste or
radioactive waste, and removal or cleanup of any contaminated soil or
groundwater in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local
requirements, no later than March 1, 1994. The owner and/or operator of any
landfill or land disposal facility coming into existence after January 1, 1994
and not authorized under division (A)(1) above shall immediately remove all
solid waste, hazardous waste or radioactive waste and clean up or remove any
contaminated soil and/or groundwater in accordance with all applicable federal,
state and local requirements.
   (B)   All land disposal facilities in the county shall be operated so as to
prevent the unauthorized release or escape of leachate into the surrounding
soils, surface, water or groundwater.
   (C)   (1)   All land disposal facilities in the county shall demonstrate
through a program of groundwater monitoring that groundwater directly beneath
the facility is free of contaminants or leachate emanating therefrom.
Groundwater monitoring wells installed pursuant to this division (C)(1) must be
constructed, operated and sampled in accordance with all applicable state and
federal requirements.
      (2)   Owners and operators of land disposal facilities not in existence
prior to January 1, 1994 must submit a groundwater monitoring plan to the Board
for approval no later than 90 days prior to the commencement of operations.
      (3)   The Board shall review and approve or disapprove groundwater
monitoring plans submitted pursuant to division (C)(2) above within 60 days
after submittal. In the event the Board disapproves of such program, it shall
notify the owner and operator submitting the program of the specific
deficiencies in the submittal. The owner and operator shall submit a revised
monitoring plan for Board approval within 30 days of receiving a notice of
deficiency. No land disposal facility shall commence operations without Board
approval of a groundwater monitoring program.
      (4)   The owner or operator may submit a groundwater monitoring plan
contained in a permit issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the
State Environmental Protection Agency. Such plan must conform to the specific
requirements of this division (C) in order to be approved by the Board.
      (5)   The owner and operator may appeal adverse Board decisions under
this division (C) by petitioning the Board for an evidentiary hearing. Such
hearing shall be conducted pursuant to applicable county and state procedures.
   (D)   (1)   All trucks carrying solid waste, hazardous waste or radioactive
waste to land disposal facilities and landfills in the county and using any
streets within the county shall be operated so as to prevent the release or
escape of solid wastes, hazardous wastes, radioactive wastes, odors, dust and
debris. Upon leaving the land disposal facility, such trucks must be clean and
free of solid waste and hazardous waste and radioactive waste, dirt, cover
material, truck wash water and other debris. Truck wash water shall not be
permitted to drip on any street in the county.
      (2)   Trucks carrying solid waste, hazardous waste or radioactive waste
to land disposal facilities in the county shall not use routes adjacent to
schools, hospitals or nursing homes.
      (3)   All trucks transporting solid wastes, hazardous wastes or
radioactive wastes within the boundaries of the county shall be attended at all
times by competent personnel knowledgeable in the handling of the material
being transported as well as appropriate health, environmental and safety
procedures in the event of an accident, spill, release, leak or other such
emergency.
   (E)   (1)   All trains transporting solid wastes, hazardous wastes or
radioactive wastes within the boundaries of the county shall be attended at all
times by competent personnel knowledgeable in the handling of the material
being transported as well as appropriate health, environmental and safety
procedures in the event of an accident, spill, release, leak or other such
emergency.
      (2)   At no time shall a train transporting solid wastes, hazardous
wastes or radioactive wastes within the boundaries of the county be physically
stopped at any location other than its destination except in the event of, or
to prevent, an accident, spill, release, leak or other such emergency.
      (3)   Under no circumstances shall a train transporting solid wastes,
hazardous wastes or radioactive wastes within the boundaries of the county be
physically stopped so as to block any federal, state or county highway, or
other road deemed by the county or the municipalities within the county to be a
“significant” roadway for a period in excess of ten minutes.
   (F)   Land disposal facilities shall be operated so as to prevent the
unauthorized release or escape of any solid waste, hazardous waste or
radioactive waste, dust, smoke, odors and fumes from any part of the facility.
   (G)   Surface and storm water runoff from land disposal facilities is
prohibited unless authorized by a national pollutant discharge elimination
system permit issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the State
Environmental Protection Agency or other duly authorized entity.
   (H)   In the event of an unauthorized release of solid waste, hazardous
waste or radioactive waste, or of leachate, at a land disposal facility, the
owner or operator shall immediately notify the state police and shall
immediately cease all discharges to surface waters until the leachate released
is remediated fully and the owner or operator can demonstrate, through sampling
and analysis, that any discharge to surface waters is free of solid waste,
hazardous waste and radioactive waste.
   (I)   In the event of an unauthorized release of solid waste, hazardous
waste or radioactive waste, or of leachate, at a land disposal facility that
enters the groundwater or escapes the landfill boundaries, the owner or
operator shall immediately notify the Fire Department having jurisdiction over
its facility and shall immediately commence off-site soil, air and groundwater
sampling to determine the areal extent of the release. The owner or operator
shall report all sampling results to the Board. As soon as practicable after
the release, the owner and/or operator shall submit a written proposal to the
Board setting forth the sampling program. If the Board determines that
additional sampling is required, the Board shall so notify the owner or
operator.
   (J)   No land disposal facility in the county shall emit or cause to be
emitted any light or noise which unreasonably interferes with any lawful
business or activity or is injurious to the health or well-being of any person.
Except for necessary maintenance to prevent the release or escape of solid
waste, hazardous waste or radioactive waste or other pollutants, or activities
necessary to comply with the requirements of the Board, land disposal
facilities shall conduct no commercial operations between the hours of 6:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Except as necessary to maintain security or to comply with
the requirements of the Board, lights shall be off when the land disposal
facility is not in operation.
   (K)   All land disposal facilities in the county shall maintain adequate
fencing and security to prevent uncontrolled access to the facility. At a
minimum, security fences shall be eight feet high and maintained in good repair
sufficient to prevent injury by unauthorized persons. All gates shall remain
dosed except as necessary to carry out landfill operations. When closed, gates
shall be locked securely so as to prevent entry by unauthorized persons.
(Prior Code, § 31-1-4)
§ 52.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board, on receipt of information of any alleged violation of this
chapter, may initiate an investigation.
   (B)   If an investigation discloses a possible violation, the Board shall
notify the alleged violator in writing that the Board believes a violation may
exist and offer the alleged violator an opportunity to correct the violation
voluntarily and, if appropriate, pay a penalty under §
52.99. The Board shall extend this offer for 60 days. The alleged violator need
not admit that a violation occurred. If the alleged violator does not correct
the violation voluntarily within the 60-day period, the Board may proceed under
division (C) below to issue a notice and order.
   (C)   If an alleged violator fails to correct voluntarily a violation
alleged or pay a fine assessed pursuant to division (B) above, the Board may
issue a written notice, by certified mail with return receipt requested,
addressed to the alleged violator at the last known place of residence or place
of business, specifying the provision of this chapter allegedly violated. The
notice shall include a statement of the manner in which, and the extent to
which, the violation exists, and shall set a date and time for an evidentiary
hearing on the violation at least 60 days after the date of the notice. The
notice of the Board shall also include an order either requiring that specific
action be taken to correct the violation, or assessing a civil penalty under §
52.99, or both.
   (D)   (1)   An order of the Board under this chapter cannot take effect
until after the alleged violator has had an opportunity to be heard at a public
hearing before the Board. The Board shall provide for publication of a notice
of a hearing held under this section in at least one county newspaper. The time
and place of hearing shall be set in the notice issued to the alleged violator
under division (C) above, and shall be restated in the publication of notice
required under this division (D). The Board may, in its discretion, send notice
of the hearing to other interested parties including, but not limited to,
persons affected by the alleged violation.
      (2)   (a)   Before the hearing on a notice and order issued under
division (C) above, the Board shall grant a petition for intervention and
identify the petitioner in the record of proceeding as a party if the petition:
            1.   Is submitted in writing to the Board, with copies mailed to
all parties named in the original notice of hearing; and
            2.   States facts demonstrating that the petitioner is aggrieved or
adversely affected by the alleged violation or the proposed order.
         (b)   The Board, at least 24 hours before the beginning of the
hearing, shall issue an order granting or denying each pending petition for
intervention. The Board shall promptly give notice of an order granting or
denying intervention to the petitioner for intervention and to all parties.
      (3)   Prior to the hearing, the Chairperson of the Board, subject to
Board approval, shall designate a qualified individual to act as the hearing
officer for that hearing only. The person designated as hearing officer is
subject to disqualification for bias, prejudice or interest in the outcome of
the proceedings, upon the petition of any party to the proceedings submitted to
the Board, stating specific facts to support disqualification. Notice of the
designation of a hearing officer shall be given to all parties at least five
days before the hearing. In the event the Board grants a petition for
disqualification, the Board shall postpone the hearing for a period of time
sufficient to designate a new hearing officer and to provide notice of such
designation under this division (D).
      (4)   The hearing officer shall regulate the course of the hearing in an
informal manner, without recourse to the technical, common law rules of
evidence applicable to civil actions in the courts. To the extent necessary for
full disclosure of all relevant facts and issues, the hearing officer shall
afford to all parties the opportunity to respond, present evidence and
argument, conduct cross-examination, and submit rebuttal evidence. The hearing
officer may impose conditions upon a party necessary to avoid unreasonably
burdensome or repetitious presentations by the party.
      (5)   The hearing officer may give non-parties an opportunity to present
oral or written statements at the hearing following the presentation of
evidence by the parties. If the hearing officer proposes to consider a
statement by a non-party, the Board shall give all parties an opportunity to
challenge or rebut it.
      (6)   The Board shall have the hearing recorded at the county’s expense.
The Board is not required, at its expense, to prepare a transcript. Any party,
at that party’s expense, may cause a reporter approved by the Board to prepare
a transcript from the Board’s record, or cause additional recordings to be made
during the hearing if the making of additional recordings does not cause
distraction or disruption.
      (7)   A violation of this chapter must be proven by a preponderance of
the evidence. The hearing officer must base his or her ruling upon a
preponderance of the evidence. The hearing officer shall prepare a final
written order including separately stated findings of fact for all aspects of
the Board’s order under division (C) above no later than 30 days following the
hearing. Findings must be based exclusively upon evidence of record in the
proceedings. The hearing officer may accept and consider proposed findings
submitted by the parties following the hearing.
      (8)   The hearing officer’s order shall become the final order of the
Board for purposes of enforcing this chapter, and shall be entered by the Board
effective on the day the order is issued by the hearing officer. The Board
shall cause copies of the final order to be delivered to each party.
      (9)   The Board shall maintain an official record of each proceeding
under this section. The record shall consist of notices of all proceedings,
petitions and intermediate rulings, evidence received or considered, proposed
findings and any final order. The agency record described in this division (D)
(9) constitutes the exclusive basis for judicial review of a proceeding under
this section.
   (E)   (1)   A person who receives a penalty under this section may appeal
the Board’s final order imposing the penalty.
      (2)   An appeal under this division (E) must be filed not more than 60
days after the day on which the Board enters its final order.
   (F)   In accordance with the procedures set forth in this section, the Board
shall issue and enter an order which may include direction to cease and desist
from violations of this chapter, impose monetary penalties in accordance with §
52.99, and mandate corrective action to alleviate the violation.
(Prior Code, § 31-1-5) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.25 FEES.
   As compensation to the Board for its services in the enforcement of this
chapter, the Board may assess upon the owner of a land disposal facility the
following fees and charges:
   (A)   Fifty dollars for each inspection necessary to determine compliance
with this chapter;
   (B)   Five dollars for each time a first-class letter is mailed to an owner
or operator; and
   (C)   Upon a determination of a violation of this chapter, $1,000 for each
administrative hearing under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 31-1-7) (Ord. 93-27, passed 8-16-1993)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is liable for civil
penalties not to exceed $2,500 per day of any violation, which may be recovered
in administrative proceedings under §
52.24. In assessing a penalty hereunder, the Board shall take into
consideration the nature, severity and potential health and environmental
consequences of the violation, the culpability of the owner/operator in the
violation, and the past compliance history of the facility.
(Prior Code, § 31-1-6)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   FIREWORKS
      
93.   SMOKING
      
94.   GROUND AMBULANCE SERVICE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Personnel
   
90.03   Administrator
   
90.04   Powers of the County Board
   
90.05   Police powers
   
90.06   Adoption of state statute
   
90.07   Interference with enforcement
   
90.08   Animals considered a nuisance
   
90.09   Registration forms and tag fees
   
90.10   Dog bites
   
90.11   Inoculation, registration and identification requirements
   
90.12   Control by owner
   
90.13   Impoundment
   
90.14   Microchipping impounded animals
   
90.15   Redemption
   
90.16   Prevention of spread of rabies
   
90.17   Apprehension and investigation
   
90.18   Citations
   
90.19   Dumping of animals
   
90.20   Adoption policy and fees for adoption and other services
   
90.21   Fee schedule
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the state and appointed pursuant
to this chapter.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. Any person hired by the Administrator to perform the
duties assigned by the Administrator. The ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN shall have the
ability to enforce the County Animal Control Ordinance and to enforce state
laws pertaining to animal control issues.
   BOARD. The County Board of Effingham.
   DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the state, appointed by the
Administrator and approved by the Board of the county.
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, chain or frame which shall be securely fastened
to the collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient
strength to keep such a dog or other animal under control.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a dog or other animal, or
who has a dog or other animal in his or her care, or acts as its custodian or
who knowingly permits a dog or other domestic animal to remain on or about and
premise occupied by him or her.
   STRAY DOG. Any dog not on the premises of the owner or under control by
leash, or identifiable by collar or tags.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.02 PERSONNEL.
   The Chairperson of the County Board shall appoint with the advice and
consent of the Board an Administrator. The appointment shall be for one year.
The Administrator’s salary and expenses, if any, shall be set annually by the
Board and incorporated in the annual budget. The Administrator may appoint as
many Deputy Administrators and/or Animal Control Wardens as authorized by the
Board. The Administrator and Deputy Administrator may be removed for cause.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.03 ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Administrator shall have control of all equipment and personnel
and shall carry out the Animal Control Program in the county; however, the
Administrator will be responsible and accountable to the County Board for all
equipment and personnel. A budget will be prepared annually and submitted to
the County Board at the proper time. The budget will outline all expenditures
for the Animal Control Program including the contract fee paid to the
Administrator.
   (B)   The Administrator shall control and prevent the spread of rabies, and
shall also have the following duties:
      (1)   Administer the Animal Control Program in the county;
      (2)   Make such reports as are required by the Director of the Department
of Agriculture of the state and the County Board;
      (3)   Direct the activities of and assign duties to the personnel working
in the County Animal Control Program; and
      (4)   Develop quarantine procedures for any and all animals that bite
another animal and/or human being where it cannot be proven that the biting
animal(s) has been vaccinated for rabies.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.04 POWERS OF THE COUNTY BOARD.
   The County Board, by virtue of this chapter, has the following powers:
   (A)   Direct the Administrator to develop written job descriptions for all
personnel working in the County Animal Control Program;
   (B)   Direct the Administrator to draft written rules and regulations for
the operation of the County Animal Control Program as needed;
   (C)   Direct the Administrator to prepare an annual budget for the operation
of the County Animal Control Program; and
   (D)   To approve all expenditures under the Animal Control Program.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.05 POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The Administrator, Deputy Administrator and Animal Control Wardens do
not have the power of peace officers in the county, except for the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of the Illinois Animal Control Act, being 510 ILCS 5
or this chapter, including the issuance and service of citations and summonses.
   (B)   The County Animal Control Wardens are hereby allowed to carry animal
control spray and a tranquilizer gun after proper training to be used only in
case of emergency. Authorization to use this equipment will be at the
discretion of the Administrator.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.06 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUE.
   (A)   The county adopts the Illinois Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et
seq., as it may be amended from time to time and as allowed by said division.
   (B)   The county adopts the Illinois Domestic Animals Running at Large Act,
510 ILCS 55/1 et seq., as they may be amended from time to time and as allowed
by said division.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall, in any way, interfere with any person who is known to such
person to be or who identifies himself or herself to be a county employee or
officer enforcing the provisions of this chapter or engage in catching or
impounding any animal under the authority of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ANIMALS CONSIDERED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person owning, possessing or harboring any animal within
unincorporated the county shall permit said animal to become a nuisance; an
animal, other than a dog trained for law enforcement in the performance of its
duty, shall be considered a nuisance if said animal:
      (1)   Chases, molests, attacks, bites, interferes with or physically
intimidates any person while on or off the premises of the owner; or
      (2)   Chases, molests, attacks, bites and interferes with other domestic
animals off the premises of the owner.
   (B)   The Animal Control Warden, or delegate, upon reasonable grounds, shall
impound any animal creating a nuisance by being in violation of division (A)(1)
or (A)(2) above and restrained by a competent person.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 REGISTRATION FORMS AND TAG FEES.
   The Administrator shall provide licensed veterinarians with rabies
inoculation certificates in a form approved by the County Board, which shall be
signed by the veterinarian administering the rabies inoculation vaccine. The
original of said certificate shall be issued to the owner of the dog or other
animal which has been inoculated and a copy of the certificate shall be
returned to the Administrator or his or her designated representative.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.10 DOG BITES.
   (A)   When the Administrator receives information that any person has been
bitten by a dog or other animal, the Administrator, or his or her authorized
representative, shall have such dog or other animal confined under the
observation of a licensed veterinarian for a period of ten days. The
Administrator may, by regulation, permit such confinement to be reduced to a
period of less than ten days. Such veterinarian shall report the clinical
condition of the dog or other animal immediately, with confirmation in writing
to the Administrator within 24 hours after the dog or other animal is presented
for examination, giving the owner’s name, address, the date of confinement, the
breed, description, age and sex of such dog or other animal, on appropriate
form approved by the Administrator. The Administrator shall notify the
attending physician or responsible health agency. At the end of the confinement
period, the veterinarian shall submit a written report to the Administrator
advising him or her of the final disposition of such dog or other animal on
appropriate forms approved by the Administrator. When evidence is presented
that such dog or other animal was inoculated against rabies within the time
prescribed by law, it may be confined in a manner, on the owner’s premises,
which will prohibit it from biting any person for a period of ten days, if the
Administrator, or other licensed veterinarian, adjudges such confinement
satisfactory. The Administrator may, by regulation, permit such confinement to
be reduced to a period of less than ten days. At the end of the confinement
period, such dog or other animal shall be examined by the Administrator, or
licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person having knowledge that any person has
been bitten by a dog or other animal to refuse to notify the Administrator
promptly. It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or other animal to
euthanize, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of such dog or other animal
known to have bitten a person, until it is released by the Administrator or his
or her authorized representative. It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or
other animal to refuse or fail to comply with the written or printed
instructions made by the Administrator or his or her authorized representative.
If such instructions can not be delivered in person, they shall be mailed to
the owner of such dog or other animal by regular mail, postage prepaid. The
affidavit or testimony of the Administrator, or his or her authorized
representative, delivering or mailing such instructions is prima facie evidence
that the owner of such dog or other animal was notified of his or her
responsibilities. Any expense incurred in the handling of a dog or other animal
under this section shall be borne by the owner. For the purpose of this
section, the work “immediately” means by telephone, in person, or by other than
use of the mail.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 INOCULATION, REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog four months or more of age shall register every
12 months the dog with the Administrator. A valid registration and rabies
inoculation tag shall be attached to a collar or harness and worn by the dog to
which tag was issued. Consideration shall be given to farm or hunting dogs or
other special cases. Fee for registration shall be set by Administrator with
approval of the County Board. The yearly tag fee shall be $5 per year.
   (B)   Every owner of a dog four months or more of age shall cause such dog
to be inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually or every
three years depending on the type of vaccine used.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 CONTROL BY OWNER.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog shall keep such dog from leaving the premises
occupied by said owner unless the dog is accompanied or supervised by its owner
or on a leash.
   (B)   Consideration shall be given to farm and hunting dogs or other special
cases.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The Animal Control Wardens shall and any peace officer may apprehend
and impound the following dogs:
      (1)   Dogs which have bitten a person;
      (2)   Dogs four months or more of age which have not been inoculated
against rabies by a licensed veterinarian;
      (3)   Dogs four months or more of age not on the premises of their owners
and which do not have a current, valid rabies inoculations tag attached to
their collar or harness; except special circumstances in §
90.12; and
      (4)   Dogs wearing a current valid rabies inoculation tag which are not
on the premises occupied by the dog’s owner and are not accompanied or
supervised by the owner and are not on a leash when a complaint has been
received by the Animal Control Wardens.
   (B)   When a dog whose owner is known is impounded, notice shall be
immediately given to the owner by the Administrator or his or her authorized
representative. The owner will be contacted and an attempt to serve a copy of
that notice personally will be made. If the notice cannot be given personally
to the owner, the notice shall be left with any person 13 years or older
residing at the last known mailing address of the owner of by attaching the
notice to the main entrance of the owner’s residence. An affidavit or testimony
of the Administrator or his or her authorized representative who gives the
notice shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of such notice by the
owner. In the case of dogs impounded pursuant to divisions (A)(2) through (A)
(4) above, if the dog is not redeemed within five days from the date the notice
was given of the dog impounded, the impounded dog shall be humanely dispatched,
or otherwise disposed of by the impounding facility as a stray dog in
accordance with the laws that exist or may hereafter exist. When an owner
cannot be identified, the animal shall be deemed a stray and if unclaimed for
three days maybe humanely dispatched and/or adopted. Should the owner become
known after three days all rights to the animal shall have been forfeited.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.14 MICROCHIPPING IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   Every canine and feline that is impounded by the County Animal Control shall
be microchipped if not already. The cost of the microchipping shall be $15 and
shall be paid by the owner or individual adopting said animal. The
microchipping fee is in addition to the other fees assessed according to this
chapter and the animal control fee schedule.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.15 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   When the owner of any dog impounded pursuant to §
90.13(A)(2) and (A)(3) desires to redeem the dog, the following procedures
shall be followed.
      (1)   At the time of impoundment the Animal Control Warden shall prepare
an impoundment form to be approved by the Administrator indicating the fine of
$25 for first offense, $50 for the second offense within 30 days, and third and
any other occurrence may result in citation of $75, $100 and/or court
appearance.
      (2)   The impounding authority shall place on the impoundment form,
previously prepared by the Animal Control Warden, a charge of $15 per day for
each day (a day is 24 hours) the dog was impounded.
      (3)   At time of release, the owner shall present a current registration
and rabies inoculation certificate and a receipt from the Administrator showing
that the total amount due, as indicated by the impoundment form, has been paid.
If no current rabies inoculation certificate is available, a receipt from a
licensed veterinarian showing fee for rabies inoculation has been paid must be
presented prior to release.
   (B)   All amounts collected by the Administrator pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the Animal Control Fund and shall be used in paying the cost
of operating the Animal Control Program.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.16 PREVENTION OF SPREAD OF RABIES.
   (A)   Whenever a case of rabies has occurred in a locality, or when the
proper officials of a government unit are apprehensive of the spread of rabies,
the Administrator may order:
      (1)   That all dogs or other animals in the locality be:
         (a)   Kept confined with an enclosure; or
         (b)   Kept muzzled and restrained by a leash.
      (2)   That all owners or keepers of dogs or other animals take
prophylactic measures as they deem necessary to prevent the spread of rabies;
and/or
      (3)   Other measures as may be necessary to control the spread of rabies.
   (B)   The Administrator may determine the area of the locality in which, and
the period of time during which, such orders shall be effective.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.17 APPREHENSION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the
Administrator or his or her authorized representative or any peace officer may
enter onto private property to apprehend a dog or other animal thought to be
infected with rabies; to apprehend a straying dog or other animal; or, to
apprehend a dog or other animal that has bitten any person.
   (B)   At the request of the owner or occupier of private property, the
Administrator or his or her authorized representative may enter onto such
property to apprehend any dog whether or not said dog is wearing a rabies
inoculations tag or an identification tag.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.18 CITATIONS.
   (A)   Animal Control Wardens and peace officers of the county may issue
citations to the owners of dogs for violation of §§
90.15 and
90.16, in lieu of impounding the dog.
   (B)   When such a citation is issued, an appearance date of not less than
ten days and not more than 45 days shall be entered by the officer on the
citation.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 DUMPING OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall cause any animal to be dumped or abandoned in any area of
the county.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 ADOPTION POLICY AND FEES FOR ADOPTION AND OTHER SERVICES.
   (A)   The Administrator shall develop a policy for the adoption of dogs and/
or other animals not redeemed by owner, and dogs and/or other animals brought
to the animal control facility by the owners that wish to make available their
animals adoption.
   (B)   The adoption fees are outlined in §
90.21.
   (C)   Further, §
90.21 contains the fees for other services provided by County Animal Control.
   (D)   The fee schedule set forth herein as §
90.21 shall be posted at the Animal Control Center such that citizens may be
able to read it upon entering the animal control facility.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.21 FEE SCHEDULE.
After hours fee                       $30 (per call out, added to impound fee)
Boarding fee                          $15 (per day)
Cats and kittens, not spayed/neutered $65 (includes cost of spay/neuter and
                                      microchip)
Cats and kittens, spayed/neutered     $5 (must be microchipped; if not already:
                                      $15 more)
Dogs and pups, not spayed/neutered    $90 (includes cost of spay/neuter and
                                      microchip)
Dogs and pups, spayed/neutered        $20 (must be microchipped, if not already
                                      - $15 more)
Rabies tag, yearly
Altered                               $5
Unaltered                             $15
Redemption fee (if animal is not microchipped, it will be chipped and cost will
be $15 more; includes $25 public safety fine)
First offense                         $50
Second offense                        $75
Third offense                         $100
 
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, other than the
dumping of animals provision, or counterfeiting or forging any rabies
inoculation certificate, shall be guilty of a petty offense and upon conviction
thereof be fined in an amount not less than $50, and not more than $500.
   (B)   The fine for a violation of §§
90.08,
90.09 and
90.12 shall be a range of $50 to $500 per day, per occurrence plus court costs,
and shall be set by the court. The owner or custodian of the dog
receiving the citation may plead guilty to the offense(s) charged in the
citation if prior to the scheduled appearance date, a fine within the range is
recommended by the State’s Attorney’s Office, and approved by the court.
   (C)   Any person who is convicted of an offense of §
90.19 shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $100
or more than $500.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Short title
   
91.02   Purpose and declaration of policy
   
91.03   Construction
   
91.04   Definitions
   
91.05   Discriminatory terms
   
91.06   Refusals to deal
   
91.07   Withholding housing
   
91.08   Advertisements
   
91.09   Advertisements, causing or permitting
   
91.10   Signs and notices
   
91.11   Exemptions
   
91.12   Limitations
   
91.13   Withholding housing
   
91.14   Refusals of offers
   
91.15   Advertisements
   
91.16   Signs and notices
   
91.17   Discrimination in lending
   
91.18   Refusals to deal in lending
   
91.19   Coverage
   
91.20   Representation
   
91.21   Other violations
   
91.22   Complaints
   
91.23   Hearings by County Board
   
91.24   Enforcement
   
91.25   Remedies
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Fair Housing Code of the
county.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-1)
§ 91.02 PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the county and the purpose of this
chapter, in the exercise by the county of its police and regulatory powers for
the protection of the public safety for the health, morals, safety and welfare
of the persons in and residing in the county, and for the maintenance and
promotion of commerce, industry and good government in the county, to secure to
all persons living or desiring to live in the county a fair opportunity to
purchase, lease, rent or occupy housing without discrimination based on race,
color, religion, national origin, sex or disability.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-2)
§ 91.03 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms
and shall be liberally construed to further the purposes and policy stated in §
91.02 and the special purposes of the particular provision involved.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-3)
§ 91.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the county
which is arranged, designed or used as a home, residence or living quarters of
one or more individuals.
   HOUSING. Includes any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the
county, which is used or occupied or is intended, arranged or designed to be
used or occupied as a home, residence or living quarters of one or more
individuals, groups or families, and includes any vacant land within the county
which is zoned or intended to be used for the construction of any such building
or structure.
   LEASE. Includes sublease, assignment or rent (or rental), and includes any
contract to do any of the foregoing.
   LENDING INSTITUTION. Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan
association, other person in the business of lending money or guaranteeing
loans, any person in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans
or guarantees as agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying or
selling loans or instruments for the payment of money which are secured by
title to a security interest in real estate, but shall not include any
religious institution or organization nor any charitable or educational
organization operated, supervised or controlled by a religious institution or
organization.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN. Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
   OWNER. Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in, any dwelling or housing, or who holds legal or
equitable title to shares of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any real
estate cooperative which owns any dwelling or housing.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, legal representatives, mutual companies, unincorporated
organizations, trusts, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   PURCHASE. Includes any contract to purchase.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT. Any real estate broker, and real estate salesperson and
any other person who, as employee or agent or otherwise, engages in the
management or operation of any dwelling or housing.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person licensed as a real estate broker in
accordance with the provisions of the state statutes, or required thereby to be
so licensed. (See 225 ILCS 454/1 et seq.)
   REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON. Any person licensed as a real estate salesperson in
accordance with the provisions of the state statutes, or required thereby to be
so licensed.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION. The purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any
dwelling or housing, and an option to do any of the foregoing.
   SALE. Includes any contract to sell, exchange or to convey, transfer or
assign legal or equitable title to or a beneficial interest in real estate.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-4)
§ 91.05 DISCRIMINATORY TERMS.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any owner or other person to sell or lease a dwelling or housing on terms,
conditions or privileges that discriminate between persons because of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex or disability.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-5) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 REFUSALS TO DEAL.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter or
any owner or other person to refuse to negotiate for, enter into, or perform
any sale or lease of any dwelling or housing, because of the race, color,
religion, national origin, sex or disability of any party, to such sale or
lease, or of any member of the family of any such party, or of any person using
or occupying or intending to use or occupy such dwelling or housing, or of any
person using or occupying any dwelling or housing in the area in which such
dwelling or housing is located.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-6) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 WITHHOLDING HOUSING.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any owner or other person to represent to any person that any dwelling or
housing is not available for inspection, purchase, sale, lease or occupancy
when in fact it is so available, or otherwise to withhold housing from any
person because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or disability.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-7) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any owner or other person to publish or circulate a statement, advertisement or
notice of an intention to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a manner
that is unlawful under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-8) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 ADVERTISEMENTS, CAUSING OR PERMITTING.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any owner or other person to cause any person to circulate or publish a
statement, advertisement or notice that such owner or other person intends to
sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under this
chapter, or to consent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-9) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 SIGNS AND NOTICES.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any owner or other person to post or erect, or cause any person to post or
erect, any sign or notice upon any dwelling or housing, indicating an intent to
sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-10) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the rental of any room or dwelling unit in
any owner-occupied dwelling which consists of more than one but less than five
dwelling units. As used herein, the term DWELLING UNIT means one or more rooms
which are arranged, designed or used as living quarters for one family or one
individual. The term owner includes the spouse or any lineal descendant or
ancestor of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-11)
§ 91.12 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall require an owner to offer property to the
public at large before selling or renting it, providing he or she complies with
all other provisions of this chapter, nor shall this chapter be deemed to
prohibit owners from giving preference to prospective tenants or buyers for any
reason other than religion, race, color, national origin, sex or disability.
Nothing in this chapter shall require an owner to offer property for sale or
lease or to show his or her property to any person if such person is not
negotiating for the purchase or lease of such property in good faith.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-12)
§ 91.13 WITHHOLDING HOUSING.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any real estate agent or other person to represent to any person that any
dwelling or housing is not available for inspection, sale, lease or occupancy
when in fact it is so available or otherwise to withhold housing from any
person because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or disability.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-13) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 REFUSALS OF OFFERS.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any real estate agent or other person to refuse to receive or to fail to
transmit a bona fide offer for the purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any
dwelling or housing because of the race, color, religion, national origin, sex
or disability of the person making such offer.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any real estate agent or other person to publish or circulate a statement,
advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or lease any dwelling or
housing in a manner that is unlawful under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-15) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 SIGNS AND NOTICES.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any real estate agent or other person to post or erect, or cause or permit any
person to post or erect, any sign or notice upon any dwelling or housing, other
person, indicating an intent to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a
manner that is unlawful under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-16) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 DISCRIMINATION IN LENDING.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any lending institution, in making, agreeing to make, arranging or negotiating
any loan or guarantee of funds for the purpose of financing the purchase or
sale, construction, lease, rehabilitation, improvement, renovation or repair of
any dwelling or housing, to offer, seek or agree to terms, conditions or
privileges that discriminate between persons because of race, color, religion,
national origin, sex or disability.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-17) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 REFUSALS TO DEAL IN LENDING.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any lending institution to refuse to negotiate for, enter into or perform any
agreement to lend or guarantee the loan of funds for the purchase, sale,
construction, lease, rehabilitation, improvement, renovation or repair of any
dwelling or housing because of the race, color, religion, national origin, sex
or disability of any party to such agreement or of any member of the family of
any such party, or of the residents of the area in which such dwelling or
housing is located.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-18) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 COVERAGE.
   This chapter shall apply, respectively, to every real estate agent who,
within the county, performs any function as such real estate agent but does not
maintain an office or place of doing business within the county, and this
chapter applies to every real estate agent and lending institution who
maintains an office of place of doing business within the county; provided,
however, that the provisions of this chapter shall not be so construed as to
prohibit a real estate broker or real estate agent on behalf of the owner, from
inquiring into and reporting upon qualifications of any prospective buyer or
tenant with respect to limitations or exclusions other than those of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex or disability.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-19)
§ 91.20 REPRESENTATION.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any person, for the purpose of inducing any other person to enter into a real
estate transaction with such person, his or her principal or his or her agent:
   (A)   To represent that a change has occurred, will occur or may occur with
respect to the race, color, religion, national origin, sex or disability in
composition of the owners or occupants in any block, neighborhood or area in
which the dwelling or housing (which is the subject of the real estate
transaction) is located; or
   (B)   To represent that a change with respect to the race, color, religion,
national origin, sex or disability in the composition of the owners or
occupants in any block, neighborhood or area will result in lowering of
property values, or in an increase in criminal or anti-social behavior, or in a
decline in the quality of schools, in such block, neighborhood or area.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-20) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 OTHER VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any person:
   (A)   To aid, abet, incite or coerce a person to engage in unlawful housing
practice;
   (B)   Willfully to interfere with the performance of a duty or the exercise
of a power by the County Board or one of its members or representatives; or
   (C)   Willfully to obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the
provisions of this chapter or an order issued thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-21) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of any provisions of
this chapter may file with the County Board a written verified complaint
setting forth his or her grievance; the complaint shall state the following,
and such complaint shall state the name and address of all persons believed to
have knowledge concerning the alleged facts:
      (1)   The name and address of the complaint;
      (2)   The name and address of the person against whom the complaint is
brought, if known to the complainant; and
      (3)   The alleged facts surrounding the alleged violation of this
chapter;
   (B)   After the filing of any complaint, the County Board shall serve a copy
of the complaint on the party or parties charged.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-22)
§ 91.23 HEARINGS BY COUNTY BOARD.
   (A)   Such hearing shall be conducted by the County Board upon due and
reasonable notice to all parties. The County Board shall have power to
administer oaths and to take sworn testimony. Any party alleged to have
violated this chapter shall be entitled to be represented by counsel and shall
have the right to call witnesses in his or her own behalf and to cross-examine
witnesses,
   (B)   At the conclusion of such hearing, the County Board shall render the
complainant a decision.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-23)
§ 91.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The County Board shall be empowered to order any person found to be
engaging in an unfair housing practice to cease and desist from such practice,
upon such terms as shall be necessary and proper for the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (B)   The County Board shall be empowered at the conclusion of proceedings
held under §
91.23, to direct the County Attorney to do any one or more of the following:
      (1)   To institute and prosecute proceedings to enforce, against any
person found in violation of this chapter, the fine provided for in §
91.99;
      (2)   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction:
         (a)   For an order restraining any person from violating any provision
of this chapter; or
         (b)   For such other or further relief as may seem to the court
appropriate for the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of
violations hereof.
      (3)   To petition or institute proceedings with the Department of
Registration and Education for the purpose of causing the Department to revoke,
suspend or refuse to renew the license granted by such Department to any real
estate broker or real estate salesman found to have violated any provision of
this chapter; and/or
      (4)   In the case of any unlawful housing practice or violation of this
chapter by any person in the course of performing under a contract or
subcontract with the state or any political subdivision or agency thereof, or
with the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, to
petition or institute proceedings with such contracting agency for the purpose
of causing it to terminate such contract or any portion thereof, either
absolutely or on condition of compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The County Board may issue such cease and desist orders and may direct
such action by the County Attorney, as shall be necessary for the enforcement
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-24)
§ 91.25 REMEDIES.
   Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation of any provision of this
chapter who has exhausted the remedies provided in §
91.24 may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for appropriate relief
from such violation, including:
   (A)   An order compelling compliance with this chapter;
   (B)   An order to prohibit any person found by the court to have violated
any provision of this chapter from the sale, lease, exchange, transfer,
conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing which is the subject of
such violation;
   (C)   An order requiring specific performance of any contract for the sale,
lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing
or any person who, in violation of this chapter, refuses or fails to perform
such contract;
   (D)   Compensatory damages; and
   (E)   Such other and further relief as may seem to the court appropriate for
the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of violations hereof.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-25)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-26)
CHAPTER 92: FIREWORKS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Possession, use and discharge of dangerous fireworks
   
92.03   Permit required to sell, purchase, possess or use consumer fireworks
   
92.04   Permit fees
   
92.05   Issuance; non-transferable voiding
   
92.06   Application for consumer fireworks display permit
   
92.07   Application for consumer retailer/distributor permit; conditions for
issuance
   
92.08   Standards for temporary stands
   
92.09   Standards for permanent fireworks structures and approved portable
metal storage containers
   
92.10   Use of consumer fireworks in public parks
   
92.11   Non-prohibited acts
   
92.12   Applicability
   
92.13   Enforcement
   
92.14   Reckless discharge or use prohibited
   
92.15   Consumer operator permits for display and purchase of consumer
fireworks
   
92.16   Approved consumer fireworks
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meaning given them by the Pyrotechnic Use Act of Illinois, 425 ILCS 35/0.01 et
seq., as currently in effect and hereafter amended. Additionally, the following
definitions shall apply, unless in conflict with the Pyrotechnic Use Act of
Illinois, as currently in effect and hereafter amended.
   CONSUMER DISPLAY. Any display of consumer fireworks.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Any firework as described as a “consumer fireworks”
provided by §1 of the Pyrotechnic Use Act (425 ILCS 35/1).
   DANGEROUS FIREWORKS. Any firework not defined as a “consumer firework”.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, whether in a finished state or
individual components, containing any combustible or explosive substance for
the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion,
deflagration, or detonation, and classified pursuant to this chapter as either
common or dangerous fireworks.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 92.02 POSSESSION, USE AND DISCHARGE OF DANGEROUS FIREWORKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, possess, use, transfer, discharge or
explode any dangerous firework within the county; provided that this
prohibition shall not apply to duly authorized consumer fireworks displays.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 PERMIT REQUIRED TO SELL, PURCHASE, POSSESS OR USE CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the retail sale of, or to
sell, consumer fireworks or to hold, conduct, or engage in a consumer fireworks
display of fireworks within the county without first having obtained a valid
fireworks consumer operator permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, Illinois Compiled Statutes, and the Illinois Office of the State Fire
Marshal regulations. No retail sales to any resident of the State of Illinois
shall be made without proof of a valid consumer fireworks permit or valid
pyrotechnic permit issued to the purchaser. Any sales to customers for display
or use outside the regulatory boundaries of the State of Illinois, must be at
wholesale and to be shipped according to Illinois and United States Department
of Transportation Standards to a location out of the State of Illinois, with
county approved documentation signed by the purchaser assuring and agreeing to
these terms. See appendix A attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   (B)   Effingham County, at its discretion, may provide fireworks consumer
operator training annually for the general public provided participants seeking
consumer operator permits are 18 years of age and meet any requirements of
state law and Office of State Fire Marshal regulations.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The annual fee for a “seller’s permit” for the sale of consumer
fireworks as may be authorized under this chapter shall be $500 per year for
each seller’s permit, payable in advance.
   (B)   “Consumer Fireworks Operator Permit” is $10 which is collected at the
time of annual training. The fee includes all training and material.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 92.05 ISSUANCE; NON-TRANSFERABLE VOIDING.
   (A)   Sellers. Each seller’s permit issued under this chapter shall be for
only one retail outlet. The number of seller’s permits shall not be limited as
long as all conditions are met as stated in §
92.07. Each seller’s permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid only
for the current year, shall be used only by the designated permittee, and shall
be non-transferable.
   (B)   Display permit. Consumer display permits issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be valid for the specific authorized display area only, shall be
used only by the designated permittee, and shall be nontransferable. Any
transfer or unauthorized use of a permit is a violation of this chapter and
shall void the permit granted in addition to all other sanctions provided in
this chapter.
   (C)   Consumer fireworks operator permits. 
      (1)   Consumer fireworks operator permits are not transferrable and must
be in the possession of any person operating consumer fireworks as defined by
the Office of State Fire Marshal.
      (2)   Consumer fireworks operator permits shall be issued to any
qualified individual who has successfully completed an Illinois Office of the
State Fire Marshal approved course that was provided by an Office of the State
Fire Marshal trainer/instructor.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 92.06 APPLICATION FOR CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY PERMIT.
   Applications for a permit to conduct a consumer fireworks display of
consumer fireworks shall be made to the Fire Chief of the fire protection
district where the display will be held at least 14 days prior to the scheduled
event. Applicants shall meet all qualifications and requirements of Illinois
State Law and the regulations of the State Fire Marshal’s office, regarding
consumer fireworks display of fireworks and all fire and safety requirements as
set forth in the standards for consumer fireworks display, and as set forth in
§
92.15.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 92.07 APPLICATION FOR CONSUMER RETAILER/DISTRIBUTOR PERMIT; CONDITIONS FOR
ISSUANCE.
   Applications for seller’s permits shall be made to the County Clerk annually
on or after May 1st of the year for which the permit is issued and the filing
period shall close on May 31st of such year unless extended by action of the
County Board. Applications shall be signed by the retail seller, if an
individual, or by the duly authorized officer, if an association or
corporation. It is unlawful for a fireworks manufacturer, wholesaler or
supplier to make application for, or to obtain a retail sales permit on behalf
of any retailer other than themselves. Seller’s permits for the sale of those
fireworks allowed pursuant to this chapter shall be issued only to applicants
meeting the following conditions:
   (A)   The retailer or person in charge and responsible for the retail
operation shall be 21 years of age or older, of good moral character, and of
demonstrated responsibility;
   (B)   The applicant shall procure and maintain a policy or policies of
public liability and property damage insurance issued by a company or companies
authorized to do business in the State of Illinois in the following minimum
amounts: $1,000,000 for injuries to any one person in one accident or
occurrence; $2,000,000 for injuries to two or more persons in any one accident
or occurrence; $1,000,000 for damage to property in any one accident or
occurrence; $1,000,000 combined single limit for any one accident or
occurrence. In addition, the county is to be an additional named insured and
the policy shall provide for the immediate notification of the county by the
insurer of any cancellation of any policy; and
   (C)   Comply with all Illinois Compiled Statutes and the regulations of the
Office of State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 STANDARDS FOR TEMPORARY STANDS.
   (A)   The temporary stands of all permit holding sellers shall conform to
the following minimum standards and conditions:
      (1)   Temporary fireworks stands need not comply with all provisions of
the applicable Building Codes; provided, however, that all such stands be
inspected by the Fire Chief of the district covering the property where the
stand is located, who shall require all stands to be constructed in a safe
manner ensuring the safety of attendants and patrons. In the event any
temporary stand is wired for electricity, the wiring shall conform to the
electrical code.
      (2)   No temporary fireworks stand shall be located within 50 feet of any
other building or structure, nor within 250 feet of any gasoline station, oil
storage tank or premises where flammable liquids or gases are kept or stored.
      (3)   Each temporary fireworks stand must have at least two exits, which
shall be unobstructed at all times.
      (4)   Each temporary fireworks stand shall have, in a readily accessible
place, at least two, two and one-half gallon pressurized water fire
extinguishers which are in good working order.
      (5)   Dried vegetation and combustible materia! shall be cleared from the
location of the temporary fireworks stand and the surrounding area to a
distance of not less than 25 feet, measured from the exterior walls of the
temporary fireworks stand.
      (6)   No smoking shall be permitted in or near a temporary fireworks
stand for a distance of not less than 50 feet measured from the exterior walls
of the temporary fireworks stand. Signs stating: “No Smoking within 50 Feet”
shall be posted on the exterior of each wall of the temporary fireworks stand.
      (7)   Each temporary fireworks stand shall have a person who is 18 years
old or older in attendance at all times the stand is stocked. Stock from the
stand shall not be removed and stored in any other building during the sales
period without the express approval of the Fire Chief for the location
involved.
      (8)   All unsold stock and accompanying litter shall be removed from the
temporary fireworks stand by 12:00 noon on the seventh (7th) day of July of
each year, unless an extension is granted in writing by the County Board
Chairman or Vice Chairman.
      (9)   No temporary fireworks stand shall be located within 500 feet of
any other temporary, permanent or portable container fireworks structure,
unless it is a part of the same retail/wholesale business operation.
      (10)   Each temporary fireworks stand shall have provisions for
sufficient off-street parking, at least 15 spaces, to avoid impeding a
continuous flow of traffic at entrances and exits from the premises.
      (11)   No person shall discharge any fireworks within 500 feet of the
exterior walls of any temporary fireworks stand. Signs stating: “No discharge
of fireworks within 500 feet.” shall be posted on the exterior of ail walls of
the temporary fireworks stand.
      (12)   Any issued permit or license to sell fireworks at retail must be
publicly displayed any time the fireworks stand is open for business in such a
manner that it can be readily visible to customers.
   (B)   Exception to temporary stands. Building location and distances if
located in a permanent structure, the building must be approved by the resident
Fire Chief or his designee, and comply with the rules, herein, except for the
limit of being within 50 feet of another adjacent structure.
   (C)   Nothing in this section will prohibit another unit of local government
from denying the temporary fireworks stand because of concerns over building
issues.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 STANDARDS FOR PERMANENT FIREWORKS STRUCTURES AND APPROVED PORTABLE
METAL STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Permanent fireworks structures need to comply with all provisions of
the applicable building and safety codes. The most common codes used are the
Life Safety Code and State Fire Marshal Administrative Code Chapter I Part 105
Fireworks § 105.20 Storage and Wholesaling of Class “C” Common Fireworks.
However, consult with the local fire district in which your structure is
located, to ensure your structure is meeting the required codes of that fire
district. Portable metal storage containers can also be used if approved by
your fire district. If the structure or portable container is used for any
other purpose than the sale of fireworks, then all fireworks must be removed
from the structure or portable container during the period of time the
structure or portable container is used for any other purpose than the sale of
fireworks. Under no circumstances shall the sale of fireworks be allowed in the
same permanent structure or portable container while operating or conducting
any other type of business or service or while storing any other type of
products.
   (B)   No permanent fireworks structure or portable container shall be
located within 250 feet of any gasoline station, oil storage tank or premises
where flammable liquids or gases are kept or stored.
   (C)   Permanent fireworks structures must have at least two exits, which
shall be unobstructed at all times. Portable containers will not allow
customers inside the container, unless approved by the fire district in which
you are doing business and shall have a sign visible to the public on each
container stating: “Do Not Go Inside The Container”. In this case you will need
to provide a way for your customer to view and handle your products without
entering the inside of the portable container.
   (D)   Permanent fireworks structures or portable containers shall have, in a
readily accessible place, at least two, two and one-half gallon pressurized
water fire extinguishers which are in good working order.
   (E)   Combustible materials, not related to the fireworks operation, shall
be cleared from the location of the permanent fireworks structure or portable
container and the surrounding area at a distance of not less than 25 feet,
measured from the exterior walls of the permanent fireworks structure or
portable container.
   (F)   No smoking shall be permitted in or near a permanent fireworks
structures or portable containers for a distance of not less than 50 feet
measured from the exterior walls of the permanent fireworks structures or
portable containers. Signs stating: “No Smoking Within 50 Feet” shall be
posted, visible to the public at all entrances and exits of the permanent
fireworks structure or portable container.
   (G)   Permanent fireworks structures or portable containers must have at
least one person who is 18 years old or older in attendance at all times during
normal hours of operation or while stocking inventory in the structure.
   (H)   No Permanent fireworks structure or portable container shall be
located within 500 feet of any other fireworks structure or portable container,
unless it is a part of the same retail/wholesale business operation.
   (I)   Permanent fireworks structures or portable containers shall have
provisions for sufficient parking to avoid impeding a continuous flow of
traffic at entrances and exits from the premises.
   (J)   No person shall discharge any fireworks within 500 feet of the
exterior walls of any permanent fireworks structure or portable container.
Signs stating: “No Discharge of Fireworks within 500 Feet”, shall be posted,
visible to the public at all entrances and exits of the permanent fireworks
structure or portable container.
   (K)   Any issued permit or license to sell fireworks in a permanent
fireworks structure or portable container must be publicly displayed at all
times when the fireworks structure is open for business in such a manner that
it can be readily visible to the public.
   (L)   Portable metal storage containers can be used as permanent or
temporary fireworks structures. Consult with the local fire district, in which
your structure is located, to ensure your structure is meeting the required
codes, of that fire district.
   (M)   Permanent fireworks structures and portable fireworks containers may
be open for business the entire year if they have met the requirement of this
chapter.
(Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 92.10 USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or possess any fireworks
upon public land or in any public park, owned by the county or any
municipality, provided, however, that such use shall be permitted, as long as
it is a public firework display as allowed pursuant to Illinois Compiled
Statutes, the Office of the State Fire Marshal, and local ordinance.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 NON-PROHIBITED ACTS.
   This chapter does not prohibit the use of flares or fuses in connection with
the operation of motor vehicles, railroads, or other transportation agencies
for signal purposes or illumination or for use in forest protection activities.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 92.12 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable to toy paper caps
containing not more than twenty-five hundredths grain of explosive compound for
each cap and trick nor to novelty devices not classified as common fireworks.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 92.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Sheriff’s office, other law enforcement agencies of jurisdiction, or
Fire Chief of the fire protection district where any firework is located or
situated is authorized to enforce all provisions of this chapter and, in
addition to criminal sanctions or civil remedies, may revoke any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter upon any failure or refusal of the permittee to comply
with the lawful orders and directives of the Fire Chief or designee, or failure
to comply with any provision of this chapter or any requirement of the
community development code relating to temporary structures.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 92.14 RECKLESS DISCHARGE OR USE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge or use fireworks in a reckless
manner which creates a substantial risk of death or serious physical injury to
another person or damage to the property of another.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15 CONSUMER OPERATOR PERMITS FOR DISPLAY AND PURCHASE OF CONSUMER
FIREWORKS.
   (A)   A valid consumer operator permit holder as defined by Illinois Law and
the regulations of the Office of State Fire Marshal may publicly display
consumer fireworks, as defined by Illinois State Law and the Office of the
State Fire Marshal, on special occasions and holidays as determined by the
County Board. This consumer fireworks display shall be subject to the approval
of the Fire Chief in charge of the fire protection district covering the
location the fireworks will be displayed. The special occasions and holidays
may be determined by the County Board at any regular or special meeting of the
Effingham County Board.
   (B)   The County Board Chairman or Vice Chairman may cancel any permit to
display in the event of natural or man-made circumstances are determined to
cause an undue public safety issue.
   (C)   The consent of the land owner on which the fireworks are to be
launched or displayed is required prior to the display. Fireworks shall not be
launched or displayed in any common area of residential or commercial property,
on any public lands without approval of the responsible governmental body or
common residential parking lots.
   (D)   Any person launching or displaying fireworks, in compliance with this
ordinance, shall not be intoxicated or impaired by any drug or alcohol as
defined by 625 ILCS 5/11-501 et seq., and shall be at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   The Fire Chief of any fire protection or municipal district in which
the fireworks display is to be held, may require permits and fees not to exceed
$25 as directed by the controlling elected board or authority of the Fire
Protection District.
   (F)   With regards to these conditional consumer permit displays the
following rules shall apply:
      (1)   All combustible debris and trash shall be removed from the area of
discharge for a distance of 200 feet in all directions.
      (2)   Minimum requirements, at the fireworks discharge site, shall be
sand, shovel, and two AA-rated pressurized water fire extinguishers or a
charged water hose capable of reaching the launch or detonation site of the
fireworks.
      (3)   The permit shall be immediately revoked at any time the Fire Chief
or a designee deems such revocation is necessary due to noncompliance, weather
conditions such as, but not limited to, extremely low humidity, dry conditions,
or high winds. The display shall also be cancelled by accidental ignition of
any form of combustible or flammable material in the vicinity due to falling
debris from the display.
      (4)   All unfired or “dud” fireworks shall be disposed of in a safe
manner after letting it sit undisturbed for five minutes, dousing it with water
and then letting it sit undisturbed for 15 minutes.
      (5)   All fireworks displayed shall be no less than 200 feet away in all
directions from any spectators, buildings, structures, property lines and must
be free of any overhead obstructions.
      (6)   Under no circumstances shall a minor under the age of 18 possess,
detonate, use or be within 200 feet of any consumer fireworks being ignited or
detonated with the exception of those currently allowed by the Illinois
Compiled Statutes and the Office of the State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 92.16 APPROVED CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   A complete list of restricted and allowable consumer fireworks is available
from the office of the State Fire Marshal and is updated as needed.
(Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter regarding the retail sales of fireworks
shall be subject to the seizure of the fireworks displayed, as well as any and
all means of business, including receipts and cash derived from sales, until
such time as the disposition of these items is determined by judicial due
process.
   (B)   Fireworks illegally used in a display may be seized and the operator
cited. Any seized property will be maintained by the arresting authority until
such time as a judicial disposition is ordered.
   (C)   Upon conviction of an offense, the courts may levy fines to the
maximum allowed by state law, and the seized property may be returned,
destroyed, or disposed of as adjudicated.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 16-51, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 16-60, passed 8-15-
2016)
CHAPTER 93: SMOKING
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Smoking in public places, places of employment and governmental
vehicles prohibited
   
93.03   Posting of signs; removal of ashtrays
   
93.04   Smoking prohibited in student dormitories
   
93.05   Designation of other nonsmoking areas
   
93.06   Exemptions
   
93.07   Enforcement; complaints
   
93.08   Entrances, exits, windows and ventilation intakes
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases as used in this chapter shall have the same meaning
given to said word or phrase in the Smoke Free Illinois Act being 410 ILCS 82,
as approved on July 27, 2007, as amended and now in full force and effect, or
as said Act may be amended.
(Ord. 14-72, passed 9-15-2014)
§ 93.02 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES, PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT AND GOVERNMENTAL
VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall smoke in a public place or in any place of employment or
within 15 feet of any entrance to a public place or place of employment. No
person may smoke in any vehicle owned, leased or operated by the state or the
county, or political subdivision of the state or the county. An owner shall
reasonably assure that smoking is prohibited in indoor public places and
workplaces unless specifically exempted by this chapter.
(Ord. 14-72, passed 9-15-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 POSTING OF SIGNS; REMOVAL OF ASHTRAYS.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol,
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this chapter by the owner, operator, manager or other person in control of that
place.
   (B)   Each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager or other person
having control of the area.
(Ord. 14-72, passed 9-15-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN STUDENT DORMITORIES.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is prohibited
in any portion of the living quarters, including, but not limited to, sleeping
rooms, dining areas, restrooms, laundry areas, lobbies and hallways, of a
building used in whole or in part as a student dormitory that is owned and
operated or otherwise utilized by a public or private institution of higher
education.
(Ord. 14-72, passed 9-15-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DESIGNATION OF OTHER NONSMOKING AREAS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any employer, owner,
occupant, lessee, operator, manager or other person in control of any public
place or place of employment may designate a non-enclosed area of a public
place or place of employment, including outdoor areas, as an area where smoking
is also prohibited provided that such employer, owner, lessee or occupant shall
conspicuously post signs prohibiting smoking in the manner described in this
chapter.
(Ord. 14-72, passed 9-15-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is allowed in
the following areas:
   (A)   Private residences or dwelling places, except when used as a child
care, adult day care or healthcare facility or any other home-based business
open to the public;
   (B)   Retail tobacco stores as defined in this chapter shall be any
legitimate business as defined in this chapter and authorized by the state to
engage in the retail sales of tobacco;
   (C)   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms, provided that all smoking rooms on the same floor
must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
nonsmoking rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited. Not more than 25%
of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may be designated as rooms
where smoking is allowed, The status of rooms as smoking or nonsmoking may not
be changed, except to permanently add additional nonsmoking rooms; and
   (D)   Common smoking rooms in long-term care facilities operated under the
authority of the State Department of Veterans Affairs or licensed under the
Illinois Nursing Home Care Act, being 210 ILCS 45, that are accessible only to
residents who are smokers and have requested in writing to have access to the
common smoking room where smoking is permitted and the smoke shall not
infiltrate other areas of the long-term care facility.
(Ord. 14-72, passed 9-15-2014)
§ 93.07 ENFORCEMENT; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   The County Public Health Department and local law enforcement agencies
shall enforce the provisions of this chapter through the issuance of citations
and/or summons to appear in court to answer the charge.
   (B)   Complaints involving businesses possessing a county liquor license
also shall be forwarded to the County Liquor Commissioner, the County Board
Chairperson, or his or her designee.
   (C)   All citations or summons regarding this chapter shall be charged on a
uniform citation or summons, and shall include the name, address and birthday
of the person being accused, the location and date and time of the alleged
violation, the name of the person making the accusation and specific reference
to the ordinance alleged to have been violated.
(Ord. 14-72, passed 9-15-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 ENTRANCES, EXITS, WINDOWS AND VENTILATION INTAKES.
   Smoking is prohibited within a minimum distance of 15 feet from entrances,
exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area
where smoking is prohibited under this chapter so as to ensure that tobacco
smoke does not enter the area through entrances, exits, open windows or other
means.
(Ord. 14-72, passed 9-15-2014)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Upon conviction of a violation of this chapter in a circuit court of
jurisdiction, no person shall be fined in excess of $1,000 per violation.
(Ord. 14-72, passed 9-15-2014)
CHAPTER 94: GROUND AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
   
94.01   Ground ambulance service
   
94.02   Emergency medical service, medical transport and ambulance standard of
care
Cross-reference:
   Emergency management, see
Ch. 31
§ 94.01 GROUND AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   (A)   The County Board shall contract with, Mission Care of Illinois, LLC,
d/b/a Abbott EMS ("Abbott"), a private ground ambulance service for the
exclusive provision of emergency ambulance service within the County of
Effingham.
   (B)   Said contract shall include regulations, terms, and conditions for the
performance of said ground ambulance service which the County Board in its
discretion, may deem to be in the best interests of the citizens of the County
of Effingham.
   (C)   Said contract shall permit the contractor to enter into mutual aid
agreements with other ambulances services so that adequate ground ambulance
service will be available in situations in which the contractor may not have
adequate equipment or personnel available; and that any such other ground
ambulance sendee shall be duly licensed by the Illinois Department of Public
Health.
   (D)   That no person or entity, other than the contractor and ambulance
sendees having a mutual aid agreement with the contractor, shall operate or
cause to be operated a vehicle for emergency ground ambulance purposes, nor
furnish, conduct, maintain, advertise or otherwise be engaged in the business
of sendee of the emergency transportation of ambulance patients within the
County of Effingham.
   (E)   By the passage of this section, Effingham County expressly repeals its
previous Ordinance No. 14-88, adopted by the Effingham County Board on November
17, 2014 and amends Ordinance 14-93 passed on December 1, 2014.
   (F)   The provisions of division (D) shall not apply to:
      (1)   Rendering assistance to patients in the case of a major catastrophe
or emergency in which the contractor's ambulances and those of mutual aid
providers are insufficient or unable to cope; or
      (2)   Transporting a patient from outside of the County of Effingham to a
point within the County of Effingham; or
      (3)   Transporting a patient picked up outside of the County of Effingham
traveling through the County of Effingham to a destination outside the County
of Effingham; or
      (4)   Giesking Ambulance Service of Altamont which will continue to have
the privilege of providing ambulance sendee to its area residents;
      (5)   Stewardson Ambulance Service, which serves a small portion of
northern Effingham County within its taxing district, which will continue to
have the privilege of providing ambulance service to its area residents.
   (G)   Any ambulance service establishing a physical base of operation within
Effingham County or, providing routine services of transfers from acute care
facilities or as an emergency ambulance sendees within the county, shall
acquire a letter of authorization from the County Board, signed by not less
than three Board members.
      (1)   The County Board may limit the number of authorization letters it
issues with regards to this section.
      (2)   The County Board may withdraw the letter of authorization, or issue
a temporary letter of authorization with regard to this section.
      (3)   This letter may be revoked by a majority vote of the County Board.
   (H)   Violations of the section are hereby declared to be public nuisances,
and shall be prohibited and abated in actions in law or in equity.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 3-29-2017; Ord. 17-76, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 94.02 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE, MEDICAL TRANSPORT AND AMBULANCE STANDARD OF
CARE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to provide a standard of care for
all patients transported by any ambulance, medical transport service or
emergency medical service, operating by ground ambulance on a regular basis in
the County of Effingham; to provide a diagnostic and/or treatment process that
an emergency clinician should follow for certain types of patient illness or
clinical circumstances; to establish a level of competence with which the
typically prudent care provider within a given community, region or system
would treat the patient; and to establish a standard of uniformity in Effingham
County as to how a qualified practitioner would manage the care of patients
under the same or similar circumstances.
   (B)   All Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulances operated within Effingham
County as a normal part of business, based in Effingham County, or doing
business as a result of any agreement with Effingham County, shall be operated
as follows:
      (1)   All vehicles will be current on registration, safety inspections,
insurance and any other inspections required by any government or controlling
medical entity.
      (2)   All vehicles must be manned by at least one Illinois-licensed
paramedic with current, valid certifications in:
         (a)   Basic life support;
         (b)   Advanced cardiac life support;
         (c)   Pediatric advanced life support (PALS) or Pediatric Education
for Pre-hospital Professionals(PEPPS);
         (d)   Pre-Hospital Trauma Life Support (PTLS) or International Trauma
Life Support (ITLS); and
         (e)   Successfully tested and approved by the EMS System to work in
the system under system protocols.
      (3)   The Paramedic must be assisted by another like-qualified paramedic
or Illinois-licensed Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) approved to operate
under the EMS System Protocols.
      (4)   Paramedics and EMT shall be trained, with documented testing to
proficiency, on all equipment listed herein, all equipment available on any
given ambulance, and all systems protocols.
      (5)   Each Paramedic and EMT shall complete documented annual training as
required by OSHA, the Illinois Department of Labor and the Illinois Department
of Public Health, and must show proof of successful completion of any other
training required by all relevant units of government relevant to the operation
of emergency medical ground transportation in Effingham County, including - but
not limited to - the following subject areas, for which training must be
completed within one year of employment with the ambulance service:
         (a)   Blood borne pathogens;
         (b)   Back safety;
         (c)   Workplace violence;
         (d)   Emergency service vehicle operations;
         (e)   Health Information Patient Privacy Act (HIPPA);
         (f)   Critical Incident Stress Management (CISM); and
         (g)   National Incident Management (NIMS) 100, 200, 700, 800.
      (6)   Each Paramedic and Emergency Medical Technician shall complete and
pass at least two mandated clinical skills review competency tests every six
months from the medical director or their designee to determine any necessity
of remedial training.
      (7)   Each Paramedic and Emergency Medical Technician shall provide proof
of Hepatitis B Series vaccinations, an annual TB skin test, and shall be
offered an annual flu shot (including a declination form or proof of currently
valid test results) to be provided at the expense of the ambulance service
provider.
      (8)   Every Advanced Life Support ambulance shall possess the following
equipment on board in operational and currently maintained status:
         (a)   All required Illinois Department of Public Health and Emergency
Management System listed equipment;
         (b)   12 Lead EKG monitor/defibrillator with telemetry operational
capabilities to send EKG readings to the hospital receiving system;
         (c)   Carbon Dioxide ETC02 (End Tidal Carbon Dioxide) Monitoring with
Capography wave form;
         (d)   Transport Intravenous (IV) medication pump;
         (e)   Non-invasive continuous blood pressure monitoring equipment;
         (f)   Continuous Positive Air Pressure (CPAP) and Biphasic Positive
Air Pressure (Bi-PAP);
         (g)   Transport Ventilator;
         (h)   Intraosseus (10) Access devices for adult, child and infant;
         (i)   Blind Insertion Airway Devise (BIAD) - all sizes;
         (j)   Power Patient Cot; and
         (k)   Automatic Vehicle Locator (AVL).
      (9)   All medical equipment shall be maintained and calibrated according
to manufacturer recommendations by qualified technicians.
      (10)   All medical replacement supplies shall be maintained and replaced
by the ambulance provider to maintain required levels of equipment supplies at
all times.
      (11)   All providers must ensure adequate crew quarters to provide rest
and comfort and health for crews and to ensure maximum alertness while
responding to emergency medical calls. Crew quarters shall be maintained to the
appropriate standards, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Reasonable climate control;
         (b)   Adequate shelter from weather elements; and
         (c)   Reasonable cleanliness, free of harmful germs, molds, mildew,
and materials that would threaten crew health.
   (C)   Fines upon conviction for violating this section shall not exceed
$1,000 per day for each day the violation occurs.
(Ord. 18-37, passed 5-21-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   RAFFLE CODE
      
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND THE LIKE
      
113.   BODY ART BUSINESSES
      
114.   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
115.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Application of provisions
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   Application for license
   
110.05   Qualifications
   
110.06   Revocation of license
   
110.07   Issuance; fee
   
110.08   Classes of licenses
   
110.09   County Board; power
   
110.10   Refund
   
110.11   Fee; return upon denial
   
110.12   Hours; age
   
110.13   Conduct
   
110.14   Conduct prohibited
   
110.15   Resident manager
   
110.16   Violation held to be act of employer/licensee
   
110.17   Liquor Control Commissioner
   
110.18   Defense; review
   
110.19   Suspension or revocation of license; appeal
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases as used in this chapter shall have the same meaning
given to said word or phrase in "An Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors,"
commonly known as the Illinois Liquor Control Act, approved on January 31,
1934, as amended and now in force and effect, or as said Act may be hereafter
amended, 235 ILCS 5/1-1, et seq. Local Liquor Control Commissioner as used in
this chapter shall be the Chairman of the Effingham County Board or any person
appointed by the County Board to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 15-72, passed 7-22-2015; Ord. 17-24, passed
4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to such alcoholic liquors to
which the said Illinois Liquor Control Act as now in force, or as it may be
hereafter amended by its terms, applies.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell at retail,
alcoholic liquor within the said County of Effingham, outside of the limits of
any incorporated city, town and village, without first obtaining a license to
do so, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   All applications for license shall be in writing directed to the Chairman of
the Effingham County Board. The same shall be executed by the applicant under
oath, and shall include the following statements and information, all of which
shall be verified by the person executing such application:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant, or if a partnership, the
names, ages and addresses of each member thereof. If a corporation, the names
and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority of interest of
the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominee, the
name and address of such person, and in the case of a partnership or
corporation, the date of formation or incorporation thereof, together with the
stated purpose of object thereof.
   (B)   The character of applicant's business and the length of time he or she
has been so engaged therein.
   (C)   The citizenship of applicant, and if a naturalized citizen, the time
and place of his naturalization.
   (D)   The location and legal description of the premises sought to be
licensed.
   (E)   A statement whether applicant has any other applications then pending
before any governmental body for the sale of alcoholic liquor.
   (F)   A statement whether applicant has ever been refused an application for
the issuance of such license by any governmental body, and if so, the cause the
application was refused.
   (G)   A statement whether applicant is presently engaged in the sale of
alcoholic liquor either at retail or wholesale, together with a description of
the place or places where such business is conducted.
   (H)   A statement whether applicant has ever been convicted of a criminal
offense, and if so, the nature of the offense, the disposition of the charge,
judgment or sentence.
   (I)   A statement whether applicant has ever had a license for the sale of
liquor, either at retail or wholesale, revoked for cause, and if so, the cause
of such revocation.
   (J)   A statement whether applicant holds any public office or offices and
if so, the nature and location of those public offices.
   (K)   A statement that the applicant will, at all relevant times, maintain a
manager of the business, who is actively involved in the business operation.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.05 QUALIFICATIONS.
   No such license shall issue pursuant to this chapter if the Chairman of the
Effingham County Board shall find that the applicant fails to meet the
following qualifications;
   (A)   The applicant shall be a citizen of the United States and of good
character and reputation.
   (B)   No license shall issue to any person convicted of a felony for
violation of any state or federal law.
   (C)   No license shall issue to any applicant who shall have been convicted
of any of the following offenses: larceny; owning, keeping or operating
gambling devices or games of chance; illegally selling alcoholic liquor;
keeping a house of ill-fame; conspiracy; embezzlement; obtaining money by false
pretenses; book making; pandering; acts constituting tax evasion or other
misdemeanor involving honesty, truthfulness, or moral turpitude.
   (D)   No license shall issue to any applicant who has ever had a license for
the sale of alcoholic liquor, either at retail or wholesale, revoked for cause
on more than two occasions by any government entity.
   (E)   No license shall issue to any partnership if all members thereof shall
not be otherwise qualified, as required by this chapter, nor to a corporation
if any officer or director or any stockholder owning more than 5% of the stock
of said corporation is not so qualified.
   (F)   Such applicant shall either be the owner of the premises described in
the application or shall be the owner of a lease, or evidence of rental of
property use for short term licenses, thereon, for a term of not less than the
term of said license, and sufficient evidence of such ownership, lease or rent
shall be tendered to the Chairman of the Effingham County Board with the
application.
   (G)   No license shall issue to any applicant who is the holder of any
public office, nor to any partnership or corporation if any such official holds
office in Effingham County Government.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   In addition to other grounds for revocation herein set forth, any license
issued hereunder shall be revoked for the following reasons:
   (A)   If the applicant with 30 days from the issuance of such license shall
fail to obtain such license, certificates and permits as may be required for
the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor by the State of Illinois, United States
of America, or any subdivision thereof having jurisdiction of the premises.
   (B)   If the applicant having obtained a license hereunder, shall, during
the term of such license, lose, forfeit or have revoked such license,
certificates or permits as may have been issued to him or her by the State of
Illinois, the United States Government, or any subdivision thereof having
jurisdiction of the premises.
   (C)   If the applicant shall, during the period of any license issued
pursuant to this chapter, become disqualified for a violation of or failure to
meet the qualifications above set forth for any application for license.
   (D)   If the applicant, after having received such license, shall employ in
the sale of alcoholic liquor any manager, agent or employee who does not meet
all of the requirements of this chapter set forth as a condition to the
issuance of a license.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.07 ISSUANCE; FEE.
   (A)   Each license issued hereunder, except a Class E license, shall be for
a fiscal year extending from May 1 of each year to April 30 of the following
year, both inclusive. Where application shall be made therefore subsequent to
first of any year, the fee therefore hereinafter provided shall be in direct
proportion to the unexpired balance of the fiscal year for which said license
is issued. The fee hereinafter specified for each license, except a Class E
license, shall be paid annually in full and in advance, and shall be tendered
with the application.
   (B)   Each Class E license issued hereunder shall be only for the days
specified thereon, which shall be consecutive days and which shall not exceed
seven days. The fee for each said Class E license shall be paid in full and in
advance of the first day of said license, and shall be tendered with the
application.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.08 CLASSES OF LICENSES.
   Licenses issued under this chapter are hereby divided into the following
classes:
   (A)   Class A license. A Class A license shall authorize the sale at retail,
on the premises described in the application, of all alcoholic liquor as herein
defined, for consumption on or off the premises described in the application.
The fee for such Class A license for each fiscal year shall be $1,000.
   (B)   Class B license. A Class B license shall authorize the sale at retail,
on the premises described in the application, of all alcoholic liquor as herein
defined, but only if sealed in its original package and not for consumption on
the premises described in the application. The fee for such Class B license for
each fiscal year shall be $850.
   (C)   Class C license. A Class C license, which shall be issued only to a
club, as herein defined, shall authorize the sale at retail, on the premises
described in the application, of all alcoholic liquors as herein defined, only
for consumption on the premises described in the application, and such sale
shall be restricted to members of said club and the bona fide guests of members
of such club. The fee for such Class C license for each fiscal year shall be
$500.
   (D)   Class D license. A Class D license, which shall be issued only to a
restaurant as herein defined, shall authorize the sale at retail, on the
premises described in the application, of all alcoholic liquors as herein
defined, only for consumption on the premises described in the application, and
each such sale must be accompanied by the sale of a meal. The fee for such
Class D license for each fiscal year shall be $850.
   (E)   Class E license. A Class E license, which shall be issued only for
temporary stands, booths, and counters such as used at picnics, celebrations
and the like, shall authorize the sale at retail on the premises described in
the application, of beer, wine and distilled spirits for consumption only on
the premises described in the application. The fee for such Class E license
shall be $100 per day.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.09 COUNTY BOARD; POWER.
   The County Board of Effingham County shall have the power to determine the
number, kind, and classification of license, for sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor, and the amount of the local license fees to be paid for the various
kinds of license to be issued in the county.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.10 REFUND.
   If any applicant licensed pursuant to this chapter shall surrender to the
Chairman of the Effingham County Board the license so issued to him or her, he
or she shall be deemed to have forfeited and released all rights and privileges
arising under and by virtue of said license, and shall thereupon become
entitled to a refund of a part of the license fee so paid by him or her, the
amount of such refund to be in direct proportion that such license fee bears to
the unexpired balance of the term of such license; provided, however, that no
licensee whose license issued hereunder shall have been revoked for cause, or
who shall have become disqualified under this chapter because of the revocation
for cause of a license issued by the State of Illinois or the United States
Government, shall be entitled to the refund provided herein.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.11 FEE; RETURN UPON DENIAL.
   All such license fees received hereunder shall be paid to the Effingham
County Board at the time application is made, and shall be forthwith turned
over to the Treasurer of Effingham County. In the event the license so applied
for is denied, the fee shall be returned forthwith to the applicant. If such
license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the general corporate
fund, or in such other fund as may now or hereafter be designated by the
Effingham County Board.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.12 HOURS; AGE.
   (A)   A licensee hereunder shall not allow or permit his or her place of
business where alcoholic liquors are sold, to be open for the conduct of
business between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day of the week,
including Sundays.
   (B)   The sale and serving of drinks shall stop at 1:00 a.m. All customers,
patrons, or members of the public must be out of the premises by 1:30 a.m. and
building secured to prohibit any re-entry of such public until the time of
reopening. All employees and owners of the premises must be out of the premises
by 2:00 a.m. Premises are defined as building, parking lot, and or any
adjoining land owned or rented by license holder.
   (C)   A licensee, agent or employee shall not permit any person under the
age of 18 years to draw, pour, mix, or serve any alcoholic liquor in said place
of business either as an employee or gratuitously. Violations by the licensee
agent or employee will be charged again the licensee.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 15-72, passed 7-22-2015; Ord. 17-24, passed
4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 CONDUCT.
   A licensee, agent, or employee shall not permit, in the place of business
where alcoholic liquors are sold, the following kinds of conduct:
   (A)   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law.
   (B)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing, baring or fondling on the
breast, buttocks, anus, or genitals.
   (C)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, pubic hair, anus,
vulva, or genitals.
   (D)   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises whom exposes to public view any portion of his or her
genitals or anus.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.14 CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   A licensee, agent, or employee shall not permit the following: dancing, or
other exhibitionism, which is an act of public indecency or an act of
obscenity. Any type of sexually stimulating performance that offends the
preservation of public health, morals, safety, or welfare is prohibited.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.15 RESIDENT MANAGER.
   A licensee shall, at all relevant times, maintain a manager of the business
who is actively involved in the business operation. The name and address and
telephone number of that person shall be reported by letter to the County
Liquor Commissioner. Any change in the resident manager shall be reported by
letter to the County Liquor Commissioner and the Effingham County Sheriff,
within ten days of such change.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.16 VIOLATION HELD TO BE ACT OF EMPLOYER/LICENSEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in
the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by him or
her personally.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.17 LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Effingham County Chairman shall serve as the local Liquor Control
Commissioner pursuant to 235 ILCS 5/4-2. The powers of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall be those powers, functions, and duties as stated in 235 ILCS
5/4-4.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke, suspend, or fine
licensees pursuant to this chapter and 235 ILCS 5/7-5.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.18 DEFENSE; REVIEW.
   Pursuant to 235 ILCS 5/7-5, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall
afford all licensees an opportunity to appear and defend prior to a license
being revoked, suspended, or fined. The decision of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may be appealed to the Illinois State Liquor Commission pursuant
to 235 ILCS 5/7-5, and 235 ILCS 5/7-9. However, such review shall be on the
record, and not de novo.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.19 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend or revoke any
license issued by him or her if he or she determines that the licensee has
violated any statute of the State of Illinois, any provision of this chapter,
any ordinance or resolution enacted by the Effingham County Board, or any rule
or regulation established by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or the
Illinois Liquor Control Commission. In addition to suspension or revocation,
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may levy a fine on the licensee for such
violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for each violation; each
day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not
more than $10,000 in fines under this section may be imposed against any
licensee during the period of his license. Proceeds from such fines shall be
paid into the general corporate fund of the county.
   (B)   However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner with a three day written notice to the licensee affording
the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings shall be
open to the public and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall reduce all
evidence to writing and shall maintain an official record of proceedings. If
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has reason to believe that any continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community, he or she may, upon the issuance of a written order
stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice of hearing, order the
licensed premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period, except that if such licensee shall
also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the
licensed premises such order shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses.
   (C)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall within five days after
such a hearing, if he or she determines after such hearing that the license
should be revoked or suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, state the
reason or reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the
amount of the fine, the period of suspension, or that the license has been
revoked, and shall serve a copy of such order within five days upon the
licensee.
   (D)   If the premises for which the license was issued are located outside
of a city, village or incorporated town having a population of 500,000 or more
inhabitants, the licensee after the receipt of such order of suspension or
revocation shall have the privilege, within a period of 20 days after the
receipt of such order of suspension or revocation, of appealing the order to
the State Commission for a decision sustaining, reversing or modifying the
order of the local Liquor Control Commissioner. If the State Commission affirms
the local commissioner's order to suspend or revoke the license at the first
hearing, the appellant shall cease to engage in the business for which the
license was issued until the Local Commissioner's order is terminated by its
own provisions or reversed upon rehearing or by the courts.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The following sanctions are hereby established for these particular
violations of this chapter.
      (1)   Patrons, owners or employees being in an establishment past the
time authorized by this chapter:
         (a)   First violation: one-day suspension, plus $100 fine;
         (b)   Second violation: two-day suspension, plus $250 fine;
         (c)   Third violation: one-week suspension, plus $500 fine; and
         (d)   Fourth violation: termination of license.
      (2)   Sale or gift of alcohol to minor violation owner to be held
responsible under this chapter:
         (a)   First offense: three-day suspension, $500 fine;
         (b)   Second offense: one-week suspension, $1,000 fine; and
         (c)   Third offense: termination of license.
   (B)   All notices of hearings should be issued by Wednesday, at 4:00 p.m.
after the day of violation, or as soon as is otherwise practicable. It shall
not establish a defense to any violation of this chapter that said notice not
issued by a certain date. The hearing on said violation shall be held within 14
days of the notice being sent, at a date and time established by this chapter
and the Liquor Commissioner.
   (C)   All said sanctions, warnings and violations run within the one-year
period starting with the first offense.
(Ord. 14-71, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 17-24, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 17-99, passed
12-18-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 2-20-2018)
CHAPTER 111: RAFFLE CODE
Section
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Purpose
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   License requirements
   
111.05   Application
   
111.06   Licensee qualifications
   
111.07   License issuance
   
111.08   Conduct of raffles
   
111.09   Raffle Manager
   
111.10   Records
   
111.11   Enforcement
§ 111.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Effingham County Raffle Code”.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the licensing, operation and
regulation of raffles conducted by authorized bona fide organizations in areas
within the county as authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and
civic interests of a community.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. 
      (1)   An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public.
      (2)   The service rendered to those eligible for benefits must confer
benefit upon the public generally.
   CLERK. The County Clerk of Effingham County, Illinois.
   EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to provide instruction by methods common to schools and institutions
of learning which compare in their scope and intensity, but are not necessarily
limited to the course of study presented in tax supported public schools.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary interest of which is to both promote welfare of its members and
provide assistance to the general public.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization of workers with the objective of
betterment of the conditions in their respective occupations.
   LICENSEE. An organization which has been issued a license to operate a
raffle as provided under this chapter.
   NET PROCEEDS. Gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less sums expended
for prizes, license fees and other normal and reasonable operating expenses
incurred as a direct result of the raffle.
   NONPROFIT. An organization which is operated and conducted on a not-for-
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to the benefit of any one
individual as a result of said operation.
   PERSON. Individual, firm, organization, public or private corporation,
government, partnership or unincorporated association.
   RAFFLE. Defined in 230 ILCS 15/1.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. A church congregation, society or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS ORGANIZATION. An organization or association comprised of members
who are veterans or spouses, widows or widowers of veterans, the primary
purpose of which is to promote the welfare of its members and provide
assistance to the public.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
§ 111.04 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a raffle or to sell, offer for
sale, convey, issue or otherwise transfer for value a change on a raffle unless
done in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an
application therefor with the Clerk on the forms provided by the Clerk.
   (B)   Said application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and type of organization;
      (2)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone number, Social Security number and the
date of birth of the organization’s presiding officer, secretary, raffles’
manager and other members responsible for the conduct and operation of the
raffle;
      (4)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the
raffle;
      (5)   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle;
      (6)   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
      (7)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
      (8)   The area in which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
      (9)   The time period during which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
      (10)   The date, time and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
      (11)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
applicant organization signed by its presiding officer and secretary;
      (12)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct; and
      (13)   A fidelity bond of the raffle manager in an amount equal to the
aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded shall accompany said
application.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5)
§ 111.06 LICENSEE QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Raffle licenses shall be issued only to a bona fide business,
charitable, educational, fraternal, labor, religious and veterans organizations
that operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years or more immediately before making
application for a license and which have and during that entire five-year
period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out the purpose of said
organization.
   (B)   The following are ineligible for any raffle license:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or
in which such a person is active or employed;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (B)(1), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not; and
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (B)(1), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) above is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle as defined in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6)
§ 111.07 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk shall review all raffle license applications and approve or
deny the same within 30 days from the date of application. If an application is
approved, the Clerk shall issue a raffle license to be valid for a period of
time stated in the application, but in no event longer than one year.
   (B)   The raffle license shall limit the area in which the raffle chances
are to be sold or issued to the borders of the county and outside borders of
any municipality unless otherwise agreed with said municipality and shall show
the period of time during which the raffle chances are to be sold or issued.
The license shall also show the date, time and location at which the winning
chances are to be determined.
   (C)   The license shall be prominently displayed at the time and location of
the determination of the winning chances.
   (D)   The fee for each license shall be in an amount to be from time to
time, determined by the County Board.
   (E)   The annual fee established by the Board contemporaneously with the
passage of this chapter shall be $10 for the license of a raffle license during
a one-year period. Every license issued shall allow the license holder to
conduct multiple raffles during the one-year period in which the raffle license
is valid.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7) (Ord. 99-57, passed - - 1999; Ord. 15-92, passed 11-16-
2015)
§ 111.08 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following
restrictions.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the licensee.
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the licensee may participate in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale or issued only within the
area specified in the license and the winning chances may be determined only at
the location specified on the license.
   (E)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8) (Ord. 15-92, passed 11-16-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 RAFFLE MANAGER.
   The operation and conduct of a raffle shall be under the supervision of a
single raffle manager designated by the licensee. The manager shall give a
fidelity bond equal in the amount to the aggregate retail value of all prizes
to be awarded in favor of the licensee, conditioned upon his or her honesty in
the performance of his or her duties. The terms of the bond shall provide that
notice shall be given, in writing, to the county not less than 30 days prior to
the cancellation of such bond. The Board may waive the bond requirement by
including a waiver provision in the license issued to an organization under
this Act, provided that a license containing such waiver provisions shall be
granted only by unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9)
§ 111.10 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts and net
proceeds for each raffle. The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as
to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   (B)   Raffle records shall be preserved for three years and such records
will be made available for inspection by Clerk at reasonable times and places.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-10)
§ 111.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter is a Class C misdemeanor and each
day such violation if committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable under the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-11)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Required; possession, return upon expiration
   
112.03   To leave premises when requested
   
112.04   Hours and days of operation
   
112.05   False representation
   
112.06   Waiver of requirements for local charitable solicitation, community or
religious in nature
   
112.07   Application for permit
   
112.08   Persons ineligible for permit
   
112.09   Denial or issuance of permit
   
112.10   Records
   
112.11   Revocation; grounds
   
112.12   Expiration
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER.  Any person interviewing, examining or obtaining information, or
attempting to do so, from house to house, building to building, farm to farm,
or upon any roadway, highway or sidewalk within the county.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT OR CONTRACTOR.
      (1)   Any person, either principal or agent, who engages in or conducts,
either in one locality or in traveling from place to place, a temporary or
transient business of selling goods, wares, merchandise or services with the
intention of continuing such business in the county of a period of not more
than 120 days and who, for the purpose of carrying on such business:
         (a)   Uses, leases or occupies either in whole or in part, a room,
building or other structure for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares
and merchandise; or
         (b)   Operates the business or service from a motor vehicle or motor
home.
      (2)   The provision of this chapter shall not apply to sales made to
dealers by commercial travelers or selling agents in the usual course of
business, nor to bona fide sale of goods, wares and merchandise by sample or
for future delivery, nor to sales made by farmers or others of goods, wares and
merchandise which are products of the soil and grown, prepared and marketed
thereof, but shall apply to all others on the roadways or peddlers on foot or
from vehicles of any goods, wares, merchandise and services of whatsoever or
character within the county.
   PEDDLER. Any person selling or attempting to sell any goods, wares,
merchandise or services of any kind and nature, being carried on or transported
for immediate delivery or performance from house to house, building to
building, farm to farm, or upon any roadway, highway or sidewalk within the
county.
   SOLICITOR. Any person:
      (1)   Soliciting or attempting to solicit or take orders, from house to
house, building to building, farm to farm, or upon any street, highway or
sidewalk within the county, for any goods, wares or merchandise, foodstuffs,
services or insurance of any type or description, subscriptions to books,
magazines, periodicals, newspapers or any other kind of publication, or other
sale of property or services; or
      (2)   Seeking to obtain gifts, pledges or contributions of money,
clothing or any other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any
charitable or nonprofit association, organization, corporation or project.
   VENDOR. Any person who sells or offers consumable items upon any of the
public roadways or streets in the county from stands, wagons, baskets or from
any automobile, truck or motor home. The provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to persons doing business from stands at regularly established houses or
stores provided such stands do not protrude more than two feet from the lot
line of such store.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 112.02 REQUIRED; POSSESSION, RETURN UPON EXPIRATION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in soliciting, peddling or canvassing from
persons in a residence or on a farm within this county or in a public place
(except if such merchandise is for the sale to a business within the county of
a merchandise necessary for the furtherance of the business) without having
been issued a valid permit, as hereunder provided, by the Sheriff of the
county, acting as head law enforcement officer and as agent for the County
Board. The permit shall be in the possession of the solicitor, vendor,
itinerant merchant or contractor, peddler or canvasser and shall be displayed
immediately upon confronting any person for the act thereof.
   (B)   Within five days of termination of the permit, the person so
registered will be required to return the permit to the office of the County
Sheriff. Failure of any such person to comply will be grounds for refusal of
issuance of any subsequent permits to such person for purposes of soliciting
under this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 TO LEAVE PREMISES WHEN REQUESTED.
   Any solicitor or peddler who has gained entrance to any residence or
personal property, whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully
depart from the premises when requested to do so by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 112.04 HOURS AND DAYS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance
for any person, whether registered pursuant to this chapter or not, to engage
in soliciting, peddling or canvassing at residences or farms before 9:00 a.m.
and after 7:00 p.m. of any weekday, or at any time on a Saturday or Sunday or
on a state or national holiday, except at the prior invitation or request of
the resident or property owner.
   (B)   The limitation governing hours and days of operation shall not apply
to any person or organization exempted from the registration requirements of
this code, such as charitable, religious, fraternal, civic or political groups
within the county and neighboring jurisdictions.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 FALSE REPRESENTATION.
   Any solicitor, itinerant merchant or contractor, vendor, peddler or
canvasser who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or misrepresentation,
whether through himself or herself or through an employee or agent while acting
as a solicitor, itinerant merchant or contractor, vendor, peddler or canvasser
in the county or who shall sell, barter or peddle any goods or merchandise, or
wares other than those specified in application for a permit shall be subject
to punishment as provided in this chapter and the Sheriff may revoke his or her
permit for such offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 112.06 WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS FOR LOCAL CHARITABLE SOLICITATION, COMMUNITY OR
RELIGIOUS IN NATURE.
   (A)   The registration requirements of this code may be waived by the
Sheriff in those instances where it is determined, following an investigation
made upon receipt of an application or inquiry by an organization complying
with the conditions of this section, that the proposed solicitation is to be a
single solicitation effort conducted for or on behalf of a charitable or
nonprofit association, organization or project solely by residents of the
county or neighboring jurisdictions who shall not be compensated for conducting
such solicitation and who have not violated any provisions of this code which
would otherwise cause a revocation of a registration certificate.
   (B)   The requirements that a permit be obtained shall not apply to such
organizations as:
      (1)   Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts;
      (2)   School-sponsored functions;
      (3)   Religious, fraternal or civic organizations;
      (4)   Regularly established route persons with regularly established
routes within the county, or other persons having an established list of
customers within the county to whom they make periodic deliveries;
      (5)   Any retail merchant, located in the county who solicits orders for
his or her goods, wares or merchandise or for services on a continuing and
ongoing basis;
      (6)   Officers or employees of the county, state, federal or any
municipal government, or any subdivision thereof, when on official business;
      (7)   Persons soliciting or canvassing for purposes of promoting a
political candidate, party or public policy issue with respect to a referendum
on the ballot at an upcoming election;
      (8)   The canvass for the United States Census or other similar census;
or
      (9)   Trick or treating on Halloween.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 112.07 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a permit required by this code shall be made upon a
form provided by the Sheriff and filed with the County Sheriff’s office prior
to issuance of the permit.
   (B)   The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested
on the application, to wit:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, date of birth, Social Security number,
present home address, telephone number and business address and telephone
number if different than home address;
      (2)   A copy of the applicant’s valid driver’s license and that of each
individual acting in behalf of the applicant;
      (3)   License plate number and description of each vehicle to be used in
the solicitation process;
      (4)   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation or
association by whom the applicant is employed or represents;
      (5)   A description, sufficient for identification, of the subject matter
of the soliciting or peddling which the applicant will engage in, including a
description of any merchandise being sold or work being contracted;
      (6)   Whether the applicant or any individual acting on behalf of the
applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws
of this state or any other state, or a federal law of the United States;
      (7)   The complete address where the applicant will be residing during
the course of the solicitation;
      (8)   The dates during which solicitations will be made and the duration
of the solicitation effort, not to exceed one calendar week;
      (9)   Current Illinois Sales Tax Number, if applicable; and
      (10)   Any additional information which the Sheriff may deem necessary to
process the application such as, but not necessarily limited to, fingerprinting
and/or photographing of the applicant.
   (C)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be attested to by the applicant as truthful and
accurate and made subject to all penalties for perjury as provided by state
law.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
§ 112.08 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR PERMIT.
   No permit shall be issued under this code to any person who has been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any
other state or federal law of the United States, including any person who is a
registered sex offender; nor to any person who has been convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, nor to any person whose
permit issued pursuant to this chapter has previously been revoked.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8)
§ 112.09 DENIAL OR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The County Sheriff, after consideration of the application for a permit
pursuant to this chapter and all information obtained relative thereof, shall
deny the application if determined the applicant does not possess the
qualifications for the permit, and that the issuance of a permit to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this code. When
the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the permit shall be issued
forthwith.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9)
§ 112.10 RECORDS.
   The Sheriff shall cause to be kept an accurate record of each application
received and acted upon pursuant to this chapter, together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto and all permits issued under the
provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of the applications. Applications
for permit shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every permit
issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be identified with the duplicate number
of the application upon which it was issued.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10)
§ 112.11 REVOCATION; GROUNDS.
   (A)   Any permit issued shall be revoked by the Sheriff under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   If the holder of the permit is found to be in violation of any of
the provisions of this code;
      (2)   If the applicant made a false material statement in the
application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a permit
under the terms of this chapter;
      (3)   If a complaint(s) is received on any one individual or group for
unethical soliciting practices, at the Sheriff’s discretion and after an
investigation of the complaint(s); or
      (4)   If information being given regarding the merchandise, the method of
purchase, the purchase price, quality of service or any other pertinent
information is false or misrepresented, then the registration of any individual
and any or all persons soliciting for an organization, business, firm or
corporation may be revoked.
   (B)   Immediately upon the giving of verbal or written notice to the holder
of the permit of revocation, the permit shall become null and void.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11)
§ 112.12 EXPIRATION.
   The permit issued pursuant to this code shall expire on the date shown on
the face of the permit. No permit shall be issued for a period of longer than
one calendar week after the date of issuance of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-12)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating or aiding or abetting the violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be subject to fine of
not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day a person fails to comply with
the provisions of this code constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-14)
CHAPTER 113: BODY ART BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Body art operator/technician requirements and professional standards
   
113.03   Exemptions
   
113.04   Public notification requirements
   
113.05   Client records
   
113.06   Records retention
   
113.07   Preparation and care of the body art area
   
113.08   Sanitation and sterilization procedures
   
113.09   Requirements for single use items
   
113.10   Requirements for premises
   
113.11   Permit requirements
   
113.12   Temporary demonstration permit requirements
   
113.13   Mobile body art establishments
   
113.14   Prohibitions
   
113.15   Enforcement
   
113.16   Suspension or revocation of permits
   
113.17   Department personnel competency requirement
   
113.18   Interpretation and validity
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFTERCARE. Written instructions given to the client, specific to the body
art procedure(s) rendered, on caring for the body art and surrounding area.
These instructions will include information when to seek medical treatment, if
necessary.
   ANTISEPTIC. An agent that destroys disease causing microorganisms on human
skin or mucosa.
   BODY ART. The practice of physical body adornment by permitted
establishments and operators utilizing, but not limited to, the following
techniques: body piercing, tattooing, cosmetic tattooing, branding and
scarification. This definition does not include practices that are considered
medical procedures by a state medical board, such as implants under the skin,
and shall not be performed in a body art establishment, nor does this
definition include, for the purposes of this code, piercing of the outer
perimeter or lobe of the ear using pre-sterilized single use stud and clasp ear
piercing systems.
   BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT. Any place or premises, whether public or private,
temporary or permanent in nature or location, where the practices of body art,
whether or not for profit, are performed.
   BODY PIERCING. Puncturing or penetration of the skin of a person using pre-
sterilized single use needles and the insertion of pre-sterilized jewelry or
other adornment thereto in the opening. Puncturing the outer perimeter or lobe
of the ear using a pre-sterilized single use stud and clasp ear piercing system
shall not be included in this definition.
   CONTAMINATED WASTE. Any liquid or semi-liquid blood or other potentially
infectious materials; contaminated items that would release blood or other
potentially infectious materials in liquid or semi-liquid state if compressed;
items that are caked with dried blood or other potentially infectious materials
and are capable of releasing these materials during handling; sharps and any
wastes containing blood or other potentially infectious materials, as defined
in 29 C.F.R. pt. 1910.1030 (latest edition), known as “Occupational Exposure to
Bloodborne Pathogens”.
   COSMETIC TATTOOING. See TATTOOING.
   DEPARTMENT. The Effingham County Health Department, or its authorized
representative, having jurisdiction to promulgate, monitor, administer and
enforce these regulations.
   DISINFECTION. The destruction of disease-causing microorganisms on inanimate
objects or surfaces, thereby rendering these objects safe for use or handling.
   EAR PIERCING. The puncturing of the outer perimeter or lobe of the ear using
a pre-sterilized single use stud and clasp ear piercing system following
manufacturers instructions. Under no circumstances shall EAR PIERCING studs and
clasps be used anywhere on the body other than the outer perimeter and lobe of
the ear.
   EQUIPMENT. All machinery, including fixtures, containers, vessels, tools,
devices, implements, furniture, display and storage areas, sinks and all other
apparatus and appurtenances used in connection with the operation of a body art
establishment.
   HANDSINK. A lavatory equipped with hot and cold running water under
pressure, used solely for washing hands, arms or other portions of the body.
   HOT WATER. Water which attains and maintains a temperature of at least
100°F.
   INSTRUMENTS USED FOR BODY ART. Hand pieces, needles, needle bars and other
instruments that may come in contact with a client’s body or possible exposure
to bodily fluids during body art procedures.
   INVASIVE. Entry into the body either by incision or insertion of an
instrument into or through the skin or mucosa, or by any other means intended
to puncture, break or compromise the skin or mucosa.
   JEWELRY. Any personal ornament inserted into a newly pierced area, which
must be made of surgical implant grade stainless steel, solid 14k or 18k white
or yellow gold, niobium, titanium or platinum, a dense, low-porosity plastic
and or which is free of nicks, scratches or irregular surfaces and which has
been properly sterilized prior to use.
   LIQUID CHEMICAL GERMICIDE. A disinfectant or sanitizer registered with the
Environmental Protection Agency or an approximate 1:100 dilution of household
chlorine bleach made fresh daily and dispensed from a spray bottle (550 ppm,
cup/gallons or two tablespoons/quart of tap water).
   OPERATOR/TECHNICIAN. Any person who controls, operates, manages, conducts or
practices body art activities at a body art establishment and who is
responsible for compliance with these regulations, whether actually performing
body art activities or not. The term includes technicians who work under the
operator and perform body art activities.
   PERMIT. Written approval by the Department to operate a body art
establishment. Approval is given in accordance with these regulation and is
separate from any other licensing requirement that may exist within communities
or political subdivisions comprising the jurisdiction.
   PERSON. An individual, any form of business or social organization or any
other non-governmental legal entity including but not limited to a corporation,
partnership, limited liability company, association, trust or unincorporated
organization.
   PHYSICIAN. A person licensed by the state to practice medicine in all its
branches and may include other areas such as dentistry, osteopathy or
acupuncture, depending on the rules and regulations of the state.
   PROCEDURE SURFACE. Any surface of an inanimate object that contacts the
client’s unclothed body during a body art procedure, skin preparation of the
area adjacent to and including the body art procedure or any associated work
area which may require sanitizing.
   SANITIZE/SANITIZATION PROCEDURE. A process of reducing the numbers of micro-
organisms on cleaned surfaces and equipment to a safe level as judged by public
health standards and which has been approved by the Department.
   SHARPS. Any object (sterile or contaminated) that may purposefully or
accidentally cut or penetrate the skin or mucosa including, but not limited to,
pre-sterilized, single use needles, scalpel blades or razor blades.
   SHARPS CONTAINER. A puncture-resistant, leak-proof container that can be
closed for handling, storage, transportation and disposal and is labeled with
the international biohazard symbol.
   SINGLE USE. Products or items that are intended for one-time, one-person use
and are disposed of after use on each client including, but not limited to,
cotton swabs or balls, tissues or paper products, paper or plastic cups, gauze
and sanitary coverings, razors, piercing needles, scalpel blades, stencils, ink
cups and protective gloves.
   STERILIZATION. A very powerful process resulting in the destruction of all
forms of microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial spores.
   TATTOOING. Any method of placing ink or other pigment into or under the skin
or mucosa by the aid of needles or any other instrument used to puncture the
skin, resulting in permanent coloration of the skin or mucosa. This includes
all forms of cosmetic tattooing.
   TEMPORARY BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT. Any place or premises operating at a fixed
location where an operator performs body art procedures for no more than 14
days consecutively in conjunction with a single event or celebration.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. A set of guidelines and controls, published by the
Center for Disease Control (CDC) as guidelines for prevention of transmission
of human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B virus to health-care and
public-safety workers in Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR), June 23,
1989, Vol. 38, No. S-6, and as recommendations for preventing transmission of
human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B virus to patients during exposure-
prone invasive procedures, in MMWR, July 12, 1991, Vol. 40, No. RR-8. This
method of infection control requires the employer and the employee to assume
that all human blood and specified human body fluids are infectious for HIV,
HBV and other blood pathogens. Precautions include hand washing, gloving,
personal protective equipment, injury prevention and proper handling and
disposal of needles, other sharp instruments and blood and body fluid
contaminate products.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 113.02 BODY ART OPERATOR/TECHNICIAN REQUIREMENTS AND PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following information shall be kept on file on the premises of a
body art establishment and available for inspection by the Department:
      (1)   Full names and exact duties;
      (2)   Date of birth;
      (3)   Gender;
      (4)   Home address;
      (5)   Home/work phone numbers;
      (6)   Identification photos of all body art operators/technicians;
      (7)   Establishment name;
      (8)   Hours of operation;
      (9)   Owner’s name and address;
      (10)   A complete description of all body art procedures performed;
      (11)   An inventory of all instruments and body jewelry, all sharps and
all inks used for any and all body art procedures, including names of
manufacturers and serial or lot numbers, if applicable. Invoices or orders
shall satisfy this requirement; and
      (12)   A copy of these regulations.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform body art procedures
unless such procedures are performed in a body art establishment with a current
permit.
   (C)   The body art operation/technician must be a minimum of 18 years of
age.
   (D)   Smoking, eating or drinking by anyone is prohibited in the area where
body art is performed.
   (E)   Operators/technicians shall refuse service to any person who, in the
opinion of the operator/technician is under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
   (F)   The operator/technician shall maintain a high degree of personal
cleanliness, conform to hygienic practices and wear clean clothes when
performing body art procedures. Before performing body art procedures, the
operator/technician must thoroughly wash their hands in hot running water with
liquid soap, then rinse hands and dry with disposable paper towels. This shall
be done as often as necessary to remove contaminants.
   (G)   In performing body art procedures, the operator shall wear disposable
medical gloves. Gloves must be changed if they become contaminated by contact
with any non-clean surfaces or objects or contact with a third person. The
gloves shall be discarded at a minimum, after the completion of each procedure
on an individual client and hands washed prior to donning the next set of
gloves. Under no circumstances shall a single pair of gloves be used on more
than one person. The use of disposable medical gloves does not preclude or
substitute for hand washing procedures as part of a good personal hygiene
program.
   (H)   If, while performing a body art procedure the operator’s/technician’s
glove is pierced, torn or otherwise contaminated, the procedure in division (G)
above shall be repeated immediately. The contaminated gloves shall be
immediately discarded and the hands washed thoroughly (see division (G) above)
before a fresh pair of gloves are applied. Any item or instrument used for body
art which is contaminated during the procedure shall be discarded and replaced
immediately with a new disposable item or a new sterilized instrument or item
before the procedure resumes.
   (I)   Contaminated waste, as defined in this code, which may release liquid
blood or body fluids when compressed or may release dried blood or body fluids
when handled must be placed in an approved “red” bag which is marked with the
International Biohazard Symbol. It must then be disposed of by a waste hauler
approved by the Department or, at a minimum, 29 C.F.R. pt. 1910.1030,
Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens. Sharps ready for disposal shall
be disposed of in approved sharps containers. Contaminated waste which does not
release liquid blood or body fluids when compressed or does not release dried
blood or body fluids when handled may be placed in a covered receptacle and
disposed of through normal, approved disposal methods. Storage of contaminated
waste on-site shall not exceed the period specified by the Department or more
than a maximum of 30 days, as specified in 29 C.F.R. pt. 1910.1030 whichever is
less.
   (J)   No person shall tattoo a person under the age of 21. No person shall
perform any other body art procedure upon a person under the age of 18 years
without the presence, consent and proper identification of a parent, legal
custodial parent or legal guardian. Nothing in this section is intended to
require an operator to perform any body art procedure on a person even when
parental or guardian consent is given.
   (K)   Any skin or mucosa surface to receive a body art procedure shall be
free of rash or any visible infection.
   (L)   The skin of the operator/technician shall be free of rash or
infection. No person or operator affected with boils, infected wounds, open
sores, abrasions, keloids, weeping dermatological lesions or acute respiratory
infection shall work in any area of a body art establishment in any capacity in
which there is a likelihood that they could contaminate body art equipment,
supplies or working surfaces with body substances or pathogenic organisms.
   (M)   Proof shall be provided upon request of the Department that all
operators/technicians have either completed or were offered and declined, in
writing, the hepatitis B vaccination series. This offering should be included
as a pre-employment requirement.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Physicians licensed by the state, who perform either independent of or
in connection with body art procedures as part of patient treatment are exempt
from these regulations.
   (B)   Individuals who pierce only the outer perimeter and lobe of the ear
using a pre-sterilized single use stud and clasp ear piercing system are exempt
from these regulations. Individuals who use ear piercing systems must conform
to the manufacturer’s directions on use and applicable United States Food and
Drug Administration requirements. The Department retains authority to
investigate consumer complaints relating to alleged misuse or improper
disinfection of ear piercing systems.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3)
§ 113.04 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Verbal and written public educational information, approved by the
Department, shall be required to be given to all clients wanting to receive
body art procedure(s). Verbal and written instructions, approved by the
Department, for the aftercare of the body art procedure site shall be provided
to each client by the operator upon completion of the procedure. The written
instructions shall advise the client to consult a physician at the first sign
of infection or swelling and contain: the name, address and phone number of the
establishment. These documents shall be signed and dated by both parties, with
a copy given to the client and the operator retaining the original with all
other required records. In addition, all establishments shall prominently
display a disclosure statement, provided by the Department, which advises the
public of the risks and possible consequences of body art services. The
facility permit holder shall also post in public view the body art
establishment permit showing the name, address and phone number of the
Department and the procedure for filing a complaint. The disclosure statement
and the notice for filing a complaint shall be included in the establishment
application packet.
   (B)   All infections, complications or diseases resulting from any body art
procedure which become known to the operator shall be reported to the
Department by the operator within 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4)
§ 113.05 CLIENT RECORDS.
   In order for the operator/technician to properly evaluate the client’s
medical condition for receiving a body art procedure and not violate the
client’s rights or confidential medical information, the following information
shall be given to the operator or technician:
   (A)   In order for proper healing of your body art procedure, we ask that
you disclose if you have or have had any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Diabetes;
      (2)   History of hemophilia (bleeding);
      (3)   History of skin diseases, skin lesions or skin sensitivities to
soaps, disinfectants and the like;
      (4)   History of allergies or adverse reactions to pigments, dyes or
other skin sensitivities;
      (5)   History of epilepsy, seizures, fainting or narcolepsy; and
      (6)   Taking medications such as anticoagulants which thin the blood and/
or interferes with blood clotting.
   (B)   The operator/technician should ask the client to sign a release form
confirming that the above information was obtained or attempted to be obtained.
The client should be asked to disclose any other information that would aid the
operator/technician in the client’s body art healing process evaluation.
   (C)   Each operator shall keep records of all body art procedures
administered; including date, time, identification and location of the body art
procedure(s) performed, and operator’s name. All client records shall be
confidential and be retained for a minimum of three years and made available to
the Department upon notification.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the operator to
perform a body art procedure upon a client.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5)
§ 113.06 RECORDS RETENTION.
   (A)   The body art establishment shall keep a record of all persons who have
had body art procedures performed.
   (B)   The record shall include the name, date of birth and address of the
client, the date of the procedure, name of operator who performed the procedure
(s), type and location of procedure performed, signature of client and if the
client is a minor, proof of parental or guardian presence and consent, i.e.,
signature.
   (C)   Such records shall be retained for a minimum of three years and
available to the Department upon request.
   (D)   The Department and the body art establishment shall keep such records
confidential.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6)
§ 113.07 PREPARATION AND CARE OF THE BODY ART AREA.
   (A)   Before performing a body art procedure, the immediate and surrounding
area of the skin where the body art procedure is to be placed shall be washed
with soap and water or an approved surgical skin preparation, depending on the
type of body art to be performed. If shaving is necessary, single use
disposable razors or safety razors with single service blades shall be used and
discarded after each use and the reusable holder shall be autoclaved after use.
Following shaving, the skin and surrounding area will be washed with soap and
water. The washing pad shall be discarded after a single use.
   (B)   In the event of blood flow, all products used to check the flow of
blood or to absorb blood shall be single use and disposed of immediately after
use in appropriate covered containers, unless the disposal products meet the
definition of biomedical waste (see definition).
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7)
§ 113.08 SANITATION AND STERILIZATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All non-single use, non-disposable instruments used for body art shall
be cleaned thoroughly after each use by scrubbing with an appropriate soap or
disinfectant solution and hot water or follow the manufacturer’s instructions
to remove blood and tissue residue, and placed in an ultrasonic unit which will
also be operated in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions.
   (B)   After cleaning, all non-disposable instruments used for body art shall
be packed individually in peel-packs and subsequently sterilized (see division
(C) below). All peel-packs shall contain either a sterilizer indicator or
internal temperature indicator. Peel-packs must be dated with an expiration
date not to exceed six months.
   (C)   All cleaned, non-disposable instruments used for body art shall be
sterilized in a steam autoclave or dry heat sterilizer. The sterilizer shall be
used, cleaned and maintained according to manufacturer’s instruction. A copy of
the manufacturer’s recommended procedures for the operation of their
sterilization unit must be available for inspection by the Department. Sterile
equipment may not be used if the package has been breached or after the
expiration date without first repackaging and resterilizing. Sterilizers shall
be located away from work stations or areas frequented by the public. If the
body art establishment uses all single use, disposable instruments and
products, and utilizes sterile supplies, an autoclave shall not be required.
   (D)   Each holder of a permit to operate a body art establishment shall
demonstrate that the sterilizer used is capable of attaining sterilization by
quarterly spore destruction tests. These tests shall be verified through an
independent laboratory. The permit shall not be issued or renewed until
documentation of the sterilizer’s ability to destroy spores is received by the
Department. These test records shall be retained by the operator for a period
of three years and made available to the Department upon request.
   (E)   All reusable needles used in tattooing and cosmetic tattooing shall be
cleaned and sterilized prior to use and stored in peel-packs. After
sterilization, the instruments used for tattooing/body piercing shall be stored
in a dry, clean cabinet or other tightly covered container reserved for the
storage of such instruments.
   (F)   All instruments used for tattooing/body piercing shall remain stored
in sterile packages until just prior to performing a body art procedure. When
assembling instruments used for performing body art procedures, the operator
shall wear disposable medical gloves and use medially recognized techniques to
ensure that the instruments and gloves are not contaminated.
   (G)   All inks, dyes, pigments, needles and equipment shall be specifically
manufactured for performing body art procedures and shall be used according to
manufacturer’s instructions. The mixing of approved inks, dyes or pigments or
their dilution with potable water is acceptable. Immediately before applying a
tattoo, the quantity of the dye to be used shall be transferred from the dye
bottle and placed into single use paper cups or plastic cups. Upon completion
of the tattoo, these single cups or caps and their contents shall be discarded.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8)
§ 113.09 REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE USE ITEMS.
   (A)   Single use items shall not be used on more than one client for any
reason. After use, all single use needles, razors and other sharps shall be
immediately disposed of in approved sharps containers.
   (B)   All products applied to the skin, including body art stencils shall be
single use and disposable. Acetate stencils shall be allowed for re-use if
sanitization procedures (see definition) are performed between uses if approved
by the Department. Petroleum jellies, soaps and other products used in the
application of stencils shall be dispensed and applied on the area to be
tattooed with sterile gauze or in a manner to prevent contamination of the
original container and its contents. The gauze shall be used only once and then
discarded.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-9)
§ 113.10 REQUIREMENTS FOR PREMISES.
   (A)   Body art establishments applying after adoption of this code shall
submit a floor plan of the proposed establishment for a plan review by the
Department, as part of the permit application process.
   (B)   All walls, floors, ceilings and all procedure surfaces of a body art
establishment shall be smooth, free of open holes or cracks, light-colored,
washable and in good repair. Walls, floors and ceilings shall be maintained in
a clean condition. All procedure surfaces, including client chairs/benches
shall be of such construction as to be easily cleaned and sanitized after each
client. All body art establishments shall be completely separated by solid
partitions or by walls extending from floor to ceiling, from any room used for
human habitation, a food establishment or room where food is prepared, a hair
salon, retail sales or other such activity which may cause potential
contamination of work surfaces.
   (C)   Effective measures shall be taken by the body art operator to protect
the entrance into the establishment and the breeding or presence on the
premises of insects, vermin and rodents. Insects, vermin and rodents shall not
be present in any part of the establishment, its appurtenances or appertaining
premises.
   (D)   There shall be a minimum of 45 square feet of floor space for each
operator in the establishment. Each establishment shall have an area which may
be screened from public view for clients requesting privacy. Multiple body art
stations shall be separated by dividers, curtains or partitions, at a minimum.
   (E)   The establishment shall be well-ventilated and provided with an
artificial light source equivalent to at least 20 footcandles three feet off
the floor, except that at least one hundred (200) footcandles shall be provided
at the level where the body art procedure is being performed, and where
instruments and sharps are assembled.
   (F)   No animals of any kind shall be allowed in a body art establishment
except service animals used by persons with disabilities (e.g., seeing-eye
dog). Fish aquariums shall be allowed in waiting rooms and non-procedural
areas.
   (G)   A separate, readily accessible, handsink with hot and cold running
water, under pressure, and supplied with liquid soap, and disposable paper
towels shall be readily accessible within the body art establishment. One
handsink shall serve no more than three operators. In addition, there shall be
a minimum of one lavatory, excluding any service sinks, and one toilet in a
body art establishment.
   (H)   At least one covered waste receptacle shall be provided in each
operator area and each toilet room. Receptacles in the operator area shall be
emptied daily and solid waste shall be removed from the premises at least
weekly. All refuse containers shall have lids, be cleanable and kept clean.
   (I)   All instruments and supplies shall be stored in clean, dry and covered
containers.
   (J)   Reusable cloth items shall be mechanically washed with detergent and
dried after each use. The cloth items shall be stored in a dry, clean
environment until used.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-10)
§ 113.11 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Establishment permit.
      (1)   No person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, business
trust, corporation or any organized group of persons may operate a body art
establishment unless it has received a body art establishment permit from the
Department.
      (2)   Any person operating a body art establishment shall obtain an
annual permit from the Department.
      (3)   The applicant shall pay an annual permit fee of $250 for each body
art establishment permit.
      (4)   A permit for a body art establishment shall not be transferable
from one place or person to another.
      (5)   A current body art establishment permit shall be posted in a
prominent and conspicuous area where it may be readily observed by clients.
      (6)   The holder of a body art establishment permit must only hire
operators who have complied with the operator permit requirements of this code.
   (B)   Operator permit.
      (1)   No person shall practice body art procedures without first
obtaining an operator permit from the Department. Fee for operator permit shall
be $250. The operator permit expires when employment at body art establishment
is terminated.
      (2)   The operator permit shall be valid from the date of issuance and
shall automatically expire in two years from the date of issuance unless
revoked sooner by the Department in accordance with §
113.16.
      (3)   Application for operator permits shall include:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Date of birth;
         (c)   Sex;
         (d)   Residence address;
         (e)   Mailing address;
         (f)   Phone number;
         (g)   Place(s) of employment as an operator;
         (h)   Training and/or experience; and
         (i)   Proof of attendance at a bloodborne pathogen training program
(or equivalent), given or approved by the Department.
      (4)   Demonstration of knowledge of the following subjects:
         (a)   Anatomy;
         (b)   Skin diseases, disorders and conditions (including diabetes);
         (c)   Infectious disease control including waste disposal, handwashing
techniques, sterilization equipment operation and methods, and safety and
sanitation knowledge of the above subjects may also be demonstrated through
submission of documentation of attendance/completion of courses or successful
completion of an examination approved or given by the Department with a passing
grade of 70%, attained prior to issuance of the operators permit. Examples of
courses approved by the Department would include such courses as Preventing
Disease Transmission (American Red Cross) and Bloodborne Pathogen Training
(U.S. OSHA). Training/courses provided by professional body art organization/
associations or by equipment manufacturers may also be submitted to the
Department for approval.
      (5)   No operator permit shall be issued unless, following reasonable
investigation by the Department, the body art operator has demonstrated
compliance with the provisions of this section and all other provisions of this
code.
      (6)   All operator permits shall be conditioned upon continued compliance
with the provisions of this section as well as all applicable provisions of
this code.
      (7)   All operator permits shall be posted in a prominent and conspicuous
area where they may be readily observed by clients.
   (C)   Temporary establishment/operator permit. Temporary establishment and,
when required, operator permits may be issued for body art services provided
outside of the physical site of a certified facility for the purposes of
product demonstration, industry trade shows or for educational reasons.
      (1)   Temporary operator and/or establishment permits will not be issued
unless:
         (a)   The applicant furnishes proof of compliance with divisions (A)
and (B) above relating to operator’s permits; and/or
         (b)   The applicant is currently affiliated with a fixed location or
permanent facility which, where applicable, is permitted by the appropriate
state and/or local jurisdiction; and
         (c)   The temporary site complies with division (C) above.
      (2)   In lieu of attendance at a bloodborne pathogens training program
given by the Department within the past three years as specified in division
(B) above, the applicant may furnish proof of attendance at equivalent training
which is acceptable to the Department.
      (3)   Temporary permits expire after 14 days or the conclusion of the
special event, whichever is less.
      (4)   Temporary operator and/or establishment license will not be issued
unless the applicant has paid a reasonable fee as set by the Department.
      (5)   The temporary establishment/operator license(s) shall not be
transferable from one place or person to another.
      (6)   The temporary establishment/operator licenses shall be posted in a
prominent and conspicuous area where they may be readily seen by clients.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12 TEMPORARY DEMONSTRATION PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A temporary permit may be issued by the Department for educational,
trade show or product demonstration purposes only. The permit may not exceed 14
calendar days.
   (B)   A person who wishes to obtain a temporary demonstration permit must
submit the request in writing for review by the Department, at least 30 days
prior to the event; the request should specify:
      (1)   The purpose for which the permit is requested;
      (2)   The period of time during which the permit is needed (not to exceed
14 calendar days per event), without re-application;
      (3)   The fulfillment of operator requirements as specified in §
113.11(C); and
      (4)   The location where the temporary demonstration permit will be used.
   (C)   The applicant’s demonstration project must be contained in a
completely enclosed, non-mobile facility (e.g., inside a permanent building).
   (D)   Compliance with all of the requirements of this code, including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   Conveniently located hand washing facilities with liquid soap,
paper towels and hot and cold water under adequate pressure shall be provided.
Drainage in accordance with local plumbing codes is to be provided.
Tuberculocidal single use hand wipes, approved by the Department, to augment
the hand washing requirements of this section must be available in each booth/
cubicle;
      (2)   A minimum of 80 square feet of floor space;
      (3)   At least 100 footcandles of light at the level where the body art
procedure is being performed;
      (4)   Facilities to properly sterilize instruments - evidence of spore
test performed on sterilization equipment 30 days or less prior to the date of
the event, must be provided; or only single use, prepackaged, sterilized
equipment obtained from reputable suppliers or manufacturers will be allowed;
and
      (5)   Ability to properly clean and sanitize the area used for body art
procedures.
   (E)   The facility where the temporary demonstration permit is needed must
be inspected by the Department and a permit issued prior to any body art
procedures being performed.
   (F)   Temporary demonstration permits issued under the provisions of this
code may be suspended by the Department for failure of the holder to comply
with the requirements of this code.
   (G)   All establishment and operator permits and the disclosure notice must
be readily seen by clients.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-12)
§ 113.13 MOBILE BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS.
   In addition to complying with all of the requirements of this code, mobile
body art vehicles and operators/technicians working from a mobile body art
establishment shall also comply with all of the following requirements.
   (A)   Mobile body art establishments are permitted for use only at special
events, lasting 14 calendar days or less. Permits must be obtained at least 14
days prior to the event, and no body art procedures are to be performed prior
to a permit being issued. Permit holders are responsible for ensuring that all
other local agency regulations are complied with, such as, but not limited to,
zoning and business license requirements.
   (B)   Body art performed pursuant to this section shall be done only from an
enclosed vehicle such as a trailer or mobile home. No body art procedures shall
be performed outside of the enclosed vehicle.
   (C)   The mobile body art establishment shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition at all times. Doors shall be self-closing and tight-fitting.
Openable windows shall have tight-fitting screens.
   (D)   Mobile body art establishments must have approved sterilization
equipment available, in accordance with all requirements of §
113.08.
   (E)   The mobile body art establishment shall be used only for the purpose
of performing body art procedure. No habitation or food preparation is
permitted inside the vehicle unless the body art work station is separated by
walls, floor to ceiling, from the culinary or domicile areas.
   (F)   The mobile body art establishment shall be equipped with an equipment
washing sink and a separate hand sink for the exclusive use of the operator/
technician for handwashing and preparing the client for the body art
procedures.
      (1)   The hand sink shall be supplied with hot and cold running water
under pressure to a mixing type faucet, and liquid soap and paper towels in
dispensers.
      (2)   An adequate supply of potable water shall be maintained for the
mobile body art establishment at all times during operation.
      (3)   The source of the water and tank storage (gallons) of the tank(s)
shall also be identified.
      (4)   Tuberculocidal single use hand wipes, approved by the Department,
to augment the hand washing requirements of this section, must be available.
   (G)   All liquid wastes shall be stored in an adequate storage tank with a
capacity of at least 50% greater than the capacity of an onboard potable water
supply. Liquid wastes shall be disposed of at a site approved by the
Department.
   (H)   Restroom facilities must be available within the mobile body art
establishment. A hand sink must be available inside the restroom cubicle. The
hand sink shall be supplied with hot and cold running water under pressure to a
mixing type faucet, liquid soap and paper towels in dispensers. Restroom doors
must be self-closing and adequate ventilation must be available.
   (I)   All body art operators/technicians working in a mobile body art
establishment must have an operator permit and comply with the operator
requirements of this code.
   (J)   No animals, except service animals of clients shall be allowed in the
mobile body art establishment at any time.
   (K)   Mobile body art establishments must receive an initial inspection at a
location specified by the Department prior to use to ensure compliance with
structural requirements. Additional inspections may be performed at every event
where the mobile body art establishment is scheduled to operate.
   (L)   All mobile body art establishment and operator’s permits and the
disclosure notice must be readily seen by clients.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-13)
§ 113.14 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following acts are prohibited:
   (A)   Tattooing any person under the age of 21. Performing any other body
art on any body part of a person under the age of 18 without the written
consent and presence of the parent or legal guardian of such minor. This
consent is to be given in person to the body artist or responsible person at
the facility by the parent or legal guardian at the time the tattooing or
piercing is to commence. Photographic identification of the parent or legal
guardian is required;
   (B)   Performing body art on a person who, in the opinion of the operator is
inebriated or appears to be under the influence of alcohol or drugs;
   (C)   Owning, operating or soliciting business as a body art establishment
or operator without first obtaining all necessary permits and approvals from
the Department, unless specifically exempted by this code; and
   (D)   Obtaining or attempting to obtain any body art establishment or
operator permit by means of fraud, misrepresentation or concealment.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-14)
§ 113.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Establishments operating at the time of the enactment of this code
shall be given a prescribed amount of time to make application to the
Department and comply with these regulations. Establishments that continue to
operate without proper permits from the Department or operate in violation of
these regulations will be subject to legal remedial actions and sanctions as
provided by law.
   (B)   A representative of the Department shall properly identify himself or
herself before entering a body art establishment to make an inspection. Such an
inspection must be conducted as often as necessary throughout the year to
ensure compliance with this code.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with the Department in the
performance of its duties.
   (D)   A copy of the inspection report must be furnished to the permit holder
or operator of the body art establishment, with the Department retaining
possession of the original.
   (E)   If, after investigation, the Department should find that a permittee
or operator is in violation of this code, the Department may, in the
alternative, advise the permittee or operator, in writing, of its findings and
instruct the operator to take specific steps to correct such violations within
a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 30 days.
   (F)   If the Department has reasonable cause of suspect that a communicable
disease is, or may be transmitted by an operator, use of unapproved or
malfunctioning equipment, or unsanitary or unsafe conditions which may
adversely impact the health of the public, upon written notice to the owner or
operator, the Department may do any or all of the following:
      (1)   Issue an order excluding any or all operators from the permitted
body art establishment who are responsible, or reasonably appear responsible,
for the transmission of a communicable disease until the Department determines
there is no further risk to public health; and/or
      (2)   Issue an order to immediately suspend the permit of the licensed
establishment until the Department determines there is no further risk to the
public health. Such an order shall state the cause for the action.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.16 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits issued under the provision of the code may be suspended
temporarily by the Department for failure of the holder to comply with the
requirements of this code.
   (B)   Whenever a permit holder or operator has failed to comply with any
notice issued under the provisions of this code, the operator must be notified
in writing that the permit is, upon service of this notice, immediately
suspended. The notice must also contain a statement informing the permit holder
or operator that an opportunity for a hearing will be provided if a written
request for a hearing is filed with the Department within the time specified by
law.
   (C)   Any person whose permit has been suspended may, at any time, make
application for reinstatement of the permit. Within ten days following receipt
of a written request, including a statement signed by the applicant that in his
or her opinion the conditions causing the suspension have been corrected, and
the submission of the reinspection fees of $125, the Department shall reinspect
the body art establishment or evaluate documentation provided by an operator.
If the applicant is in compliance with the provisions of this code, the permit
will be reinstated.
   (D)   For repeated or serious (any code infraction that threatens the health
of the client or operator) violations of any of the requirements if this code
or for interference with Department personnel in the performance of their
duties, its permit may be permanently revoked after a hearing. Before taking
such action, the Department shall notify the permit holder or operator in
writing, stating the reasons for which the permit is subject to revocation and
advising the permit holder or operator of the requirements for filing a request
for a hearing. A permit may be suspended for cause, pending its revocation or
hearing relative thereto.
   (E)   The Department may permanently revoke a permit after five days
following service of the notice unless a request for a hearing is filed within
the five-day period with the Department by the permit holder.
   (F)   The hearings provided for in this section must be conducted by the
Department at a time and place designated by the operator. Based upon the
record of the hearing, the Department shall make a finding and may sustain,
modify or rescind any official notice or order considered in the hearing. A
written report of the hearing decision must be furnished to the permit holder
or operator by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-16)
§ 113.17 DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL COMPETENCY REQUIREMENT.
   Department personnel performing environmental health/sanitary evaluations or
complaint investigations of body art establishments shall meet the same
requirements as specified for operators/technicians in §
113.11 prior to assuming responsibilities for this program.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-17)
§ 113.18 INTERPRETATION AND VALIDITY.
   (A)   In the interpretation of this code, the singular may be read as the
plural, the masculine gender as the feminine or neuter, and the present tense
as the past or future, where the context so dictates.
   (B)   In the event any particular clause or section of this code should be
declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction,
the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect. Toward that end,
the provisions of these regulations are declared to be severable.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-18) (Ord. 01-62, passed 11-26-2001)
CHAPTER 114: ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Findings
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   Classifications
Licensing
   
114.15   Generally
   
114.16   Issuance of license
   
114.17   Fees
   
114.18   Inspection
   
114.19   Expiration of license
   
114.20   Suspension
   
114.21   Revocation
   
114.22   Transfer of license
 
   
114.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult oriented
businesses in order to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the county, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the deleterious location and concentration of adult oriented businesses
within the county. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor
effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including adult oriented material.
   (B)   Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict
or deny access by adults to adult oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of adult
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1)
§ 114.02 FINDINGS.
   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult uses on
the community presented in hearings and in reports made available to the
Commission, and on findings incorporated in the cases of City of Renton v.
Playtime Theaters, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theaters,
426 U.S. 50 (1976), Barnes v. Glen Theater, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991), North
Avenue Novelties Incorporated v. City of Chicago, 88 F. 3d. 441 (7th Or. 1996),
and Excalibur Group, Inc. v. City of Minneapolis, 116 F. 3d 1216 (CA8 1997),
and on studies in other communities including, but not limited to, Phoenix,
Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana;
Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles, California; Whittier,
California; Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma;
Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont, Texas; and also on finding from the Report of
the Attorney General’s Working Group On The Regulation Of Adult Oriented
Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the Council finds the
following.
   (A)   Adult oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful and
unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of the
establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners of
these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises.
   (B)   Certain employees and patrons of adult oriented businesses defined in
this chapter as adult theaters and cabarets engage in higher incidence of
certain types of illicit sexual behavior than employees and patrons other
establishments.
   (C)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur at
adult oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or semi-
private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos or live sex shows.
   (D)   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities, which
creates unhealthy conditions.
   (E)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades and other adult
oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the premises of
such adult oriented businesses.
   (F)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in adult oriented businesses, including, but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV - AIDS),
genital herpes, hepatitis B, non A, non B amebiasis, salmonella infections and
shigella infections.
   (G)   Since 1981 and to the present, there has been an increasing cumulative
number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV) in the United States.
   (H)   The Surgeon General of the United States in his report of October 22,
1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
   (I)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection, as
well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
   (J)   Sanitary conditions in some adult oriented businesses are unhealthy,
in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and, in part,
because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of the
owners and the operators of the facilities to self regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities.
   (K)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found in
the areas of adult oriented businesses where persons view “adult” oriented
films.
   (L)   The findings noted in divisions (A) through (K) above raise
substantial and legitimate governmental concerns.
   (M)   Adult oriented businesses have operational characteristics which
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial and
legitimate governmental concerns.
   (N)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to place
the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and operators of the
adult oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will place a
heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the adult
oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health, safety and
welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the county. It
is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual
operator of the adult oriented business, fully in possession and control of the
premises and activities occurring therein.
   (O)   Prohibiting of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters.
   (P)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the adult oriented
business, where such information is substantially related to the significant
government interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in preventing the
spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
   (Q)   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent or who
are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
   (R)   There are certain operational characteristics of adult oriented
businesses that have adverse secondary effects (noted herein) on communities,
including, but not limited to, the advertisement of adult oriented business
through the use of large signs, which contribute to the blighting and/or
downgrading of surrounding property.
   (S)   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens of the
county will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
   (T)   Due to the adverse secondary effects (noted herein) on communities, it
is reasonable and necessary to impose reasonable time, place and manner
restrictions on adult oriented businesses in the form of zoning and locational
regulations contained in this chapter, and that these regulations are tailored
to advance the legitimate governmental interest of avoiding, to the extent
possible, the impact of such harmful and adverse secondary effects on the
community while ensuring that such regulations do not unreasonably limit
alternative avenues of communications.
   (U)   Based on Renton v. Playtime Theaters, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), and
North Avenue Novelties Incorporated v. City of Chicago, 88 F. 3d 441 (7th Cir.
1996), the Commission further finds that this chapter, while advancing the
legitimate and substantial governmental interest of protecting property values,
preventing increase in crime, and protecting the health, safety and welfare of
the community, does not unreasonably limit alternative avenues of communication
for adult oriented businesses and the proposed ordinance does provide a
reasonable opportunity to disseminate speech to the extent that:
      (1)   No adult oriented businesses presently exist within the corporate
boundaries of the county;
      (2)   Over the past five years, the county has received only zero
inquiries regarding the location of an adult oriented business in the county,
and that none have located within the county;
      (3)   Based on the findings of the locational study, there is ample area
for the locations of adult oriented businesses in that the total area within
the county’s zoning jurisdiction equals approximately 1.17 square miles, the
Industrial Zone equals approximately 755 acres, and that approximately 400
acres are available for the location of adult oriented businesses; and
      (4)   The areas available for the location of adult oriented businesses
are presently served by adequate public utilities and infrastructure, or such
areas can be readily served with such public utilities and infrastructure if
and when the need for development of such areas arises.
   (V)   Increased criminal activity in areas where adult oriented businesses
operate, including increased property crimes (vandalism, burglary, larceny,
auto theft), violent crimes (murder, rape, robbery and assault) and sex crimes
(rape, indecent exposure, child molestation). Due to the increase in criminal
activity, insurance rates also increased.
   (W)   Substantial depreciation in neighborhood property values occurs where
adult oriented businesses are located.
   (X)   Tendency of local citizenry to avoid areas where adult oriented
businesses are located. These studies noted that patrons of adult oriented
businesses are typically not resident of nearby neighborhoods, and that without
community identify, behavior is less inhibited which contributes to increased
criminal activity. The studies also noted that the owners of adult oriented
businesses are typically not residents of the community in which the adult
oriented business is located.
   (Y)   The location of adult oriented businesses near establishments selling
alcoholic beverages compounds the problem of increased criminal activity.
   (Z)   Increased public health hazards due to illicit sexual encounters in
adult oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, sexual encounters
within “peep show booths”, used condoms littering the streets and sidewalks,
and increased prostitution.
   (AA)   Adult oriented businesses cause an increase in noise, lighting and
traffic during late night hours.
   (BB)   County will be best able to buffer the harmful secondary effects of
adult oriented businesses on surrounding areas by imposing reasonable design
controls on the appearance and image of adult oriented businesses.
   (CC)   Those findings made in the prefatory portion of this chapter are
hereby adopted.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated or for any form of consideration, electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image producing devices are
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by the
depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-10)
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, film, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which are characterized by the depiction
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult
video store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult
novelty store or adult video store so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-11)
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-12)
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way
which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-13)
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-14)
   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS. Adult oriented business means an adult arcade,
adult bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult
motel, adult motion picture theater, escort agency, nude model studio or sexual
encounter center.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-26)
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nude, or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-15)
   EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   A person who performs any service on the premises of adult oriented
business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not the person
is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or otherwise and
whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other compensation by the
operator of said business.
      (2)   EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for
repair or maintenance of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the
delivery of goods to the premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-16)
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration and/or payment, offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-17)
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business or association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-18)
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any adult oriented business as a new
business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
oriented business, to any adult oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any adult oriented business to any other existing
adult oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any adult oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-19)
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate an adult oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application or a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in whose
name a license has been issued authorizing employment in an adult oriented
business.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-20)
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. 
      (1)   Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a state of
nudity or who displays specified anatomical areas and is provided to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarity
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
      (2)   NUDE MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed
by the state or college, community college or university supported entirely or
in part by public taxation; a private college or university which maintains and
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,
community college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in
a structure:
         (a)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
         (b)   Where in order to participate in a class; a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the
premises at any one time.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-21)
   NUDITY, STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a fully opaque
covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-22)
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation, association or other legal entity.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-23)
   SEMI-NUDE, SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest points or the
showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-24)
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of payment or
consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-25)
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-27)
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) and (2) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-28)
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF AN ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in floor
areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist on
the date this chapter takes effect.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-29)
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. (Of an adult oriented business) means and
includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-30)
§ 114.04 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The term ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS shall mean include, and are classified as
follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-36)
**** LICENSING ****
§ 114.15 GENERALLY.
   (A)   License required. It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate an adult oriented business without a
valid adult oriented business license issued by the county pursuant to this
chapter;
      (2)   For any person who operates an adult oriented business to employ a
person to work for the adult oriented business who is not licensed as an adult
oriented business employee by the county pursuant to this chapter; and
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with an adult oriented business
without having secured an adult oriented business employee license pursuant to
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-41)
   (B)   Forms by county. An application for an adult oriented business license
must be made on a form provided by the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-42)
   (C)   Applicant’s qualifications. All applicants must be qualified according
to the provisions of the chapter. The application may request and the applicant
shall provide such information as to enable the county to determine whether the
applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-43)
   (D)   Application signature. If a person wishes to operate an adult oriented
business is an individual, the person must sign the application for a license
as applicant. If a person who wishes to operate an adult oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater ownership
interest in the business must sign the application for a license as applicant.
Each applicant must be qualified under the following section and each applicant
shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-44)
   (E)   Information on applicant. The completed application for an adult
oriented business license shall contain the following information and shall be
accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any; and
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors and stockholders, and the name of the registered
corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the adult oriented business
under name other than that of the applicant he or she must state: the adult
oriented business’ fictitious name; and submit the registration documents
required under applicable state law to operate under a fictitious name;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter
or other similar adult oriented business ordinance from another city, county or
unit of local government within the United States of America denied, suspended
or revoked, including the name and location of the adult oriented business for
which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the
denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant has been a partner
in a partnership or an officer, director or principal stockholder of a
corporation, or a member or manager of a limited liability company that is
licensed under this chapter whose license has previously been denied, suspended
or revoked, including the name and location of the adult oriented business for
which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of
denial, suspension or revocation;
      (4)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter
or other similar adult oriented business ordinance from another city, county or
other unit of local government within the United States of America, and, if so,
the names and locations of such other licensed businesses;
      (5)   The single classification of license of which the applicant is
filing;
      (6)   The location of the proposed adult oriented business, including a
legal description of the property, street address and telephone number(s), if
any;
      (7)   The applicant’s mailing address;
      (8)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (9)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, Social Security number
and/or his or her or its state or federally issued tax identification number;
      (10)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business, prepared
by a professional architect, engineer or similar professional. The sketch or
diagram must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
      (11)   A plat prepared within 30 days prior to application by a
registered land surveyor and/or professional engineer depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing adult oriented businesses
within 1,000 feet of the proposed adult oriented business location, the
property lines and location of any religious institution/synagogue, school,
establishment selling or offering for sale alcoholic beverages, residential
structure, place of public accommodation, restaurant or public park or
recreation area within 1,000 feet of the proposed adult oriented business
location. For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or
established if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted; and
      (12)   If an applicant wishes to operate an adult oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, video
cassettes, other video reproductions or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall comply with the application requirements set forth in §
114.22(C).
(Prior Code, § 8-4-45)
   (F)   Employee license required. Before any applicant may be issued an adult
oriented business employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be
provided by the county the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name or any other name (including “stage” names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   Date, issuing state and number of driver’s permit or other
identification card information;
      (7)   Social Security number; and
      (8)   Proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-46)
   (G)   Application attachments. Attached to the application form for an adult
oriented business employee license as provided above, shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face; and
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other county, city, state or country has ever had a license,
permit or authorization to do business denied, revoked or suspended. In the
event of any such denial, revocation or suspension, state the name, the name of
the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full the reason for the
denial, revocation or suspension. A copy of any order of denial, revocation or
suspension shall be attached to the application.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-47)
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Temporary status; investigation.
      (1)   Upon the filing of said application for an adult oriented business
employee license, the county shall issue a temporary license to said applicant.
The application shall then be referred to the County Sheriff’s Department for
an investigation to be made on such information as is contained on the
application. The application process shall be completed within 30 days from the
date the completed application is filed.
      (2)   After the investigation, the county shall issue a license, unless
it is determined by the county by a preponderance of the evidence that one or
more of the following findings is true:
         (a)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
         (b)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
         (c)   The adult oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
         (d)   The applicant has had an adult oriented business employee
license revoked by the county within two years of the date of the current
application. If the adult oriented business employee license is denied, the
temporary license previously issued shall be immediately deemed null and void.
Denial, suspension or revocation of a license issued permit to this section
shall be subject to appeal as set forth in §
114.21.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-51)
   (B)   Renewal. A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject
to annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant as stated
herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-52)
   (C)   Time parameters for county. Within 30 days after receipt of a
completed adult oriented business application, the county shall approve or deny
the issuance of a license to an applicant; the county shall approve the
issuance of a license to an applicant unless it is determined by a
preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following findings is
true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom applicant is residing is overdue
in payment to the county of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against or
imposed upon him or her in relation to any business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant has been denied a license by the county to operate an
adult oriented business within the preceding 12 months or whose license to
operate an adult oriented business has been suspended or revoked within the
preceding 12 months;
      (5)   The premises to be used for the adult oriented business have not
been approved by the Fire Department and the Building Official as being in
compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (6)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; and/or
      (7)   An applicant of the proposed adult oriented business is in
violation of or is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-53)
   (D)   Display of license. The license, if granted, shall state on its face
the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date,
the address of the adult oriented business and the classification for which the
license is issued pursuant to §
114.04. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the adult oriented business so that they may be easily read at any
time.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-54)
   (E)   Premises in compliance. The Fire Department and the Building Official
shall complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance with applicable laws and ordinances within 30 days of receipt of the
application by the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-55)
   (F)   License classification. An adult oriented business license shall be
issued for only one classification as found in §
114.04.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-56)
§ 114.17 FEES.
   (A)   Application and investigation fee. Every application for an adult
oriented business license or adult oriented business employee license (whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a $500 non-refundable application and investigation fee.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-60)
   (B)   License fee; non-refundable. In addition to the application and
investigation fee required above, every adult oriented business and an adult
oriented business employee that is granted a license (new or renewal) shall pay
to the county an annual non-refundable license fee of $1,000 within 30 days of
license issuance or renewal.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-61)
   (C)   County Clerk. All license applications and fees shall be submitted to
the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-62)
§ 114.18 INSPECTION.
   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Sheriff’s
Department, the Fire Department, the Zoning Department and the County Health
Department to inspect the premises of an adult oriented business for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with this chapter at any time the premises is
open for business.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-66) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.19 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Expiration. Each license shall expire one year from the date of
issuance and may be renewed only by making application as provided in §
114.15. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration date of the license will not be affected.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-70)
   (B)   Denial of license. When the county denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the county finds that the basis for denial of the
renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-71)
§ 114.20 SUSPENSION.
   The county shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if the
county determines that a licensee or an employee of a license has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter; or
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult oriented business premises
as authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-73)
§ 114.21 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Mandatory revocation. The county shall revoke a license if suspension
in §
114.20 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-75)
   (B)   Conditions for revocation. The county shall revoke a license if the
county determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
controlled substances or alcoholic beverages on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the adult oriented business during a
period of time when the license was suspended; or
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or
other sex act to occur in or on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-76)
   (C)   Length of revocation. When the county revokes a license, the
revocation shall continue for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued an
adult oriented business license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that the basis
for the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-77)
   (D)   Judicial review. After denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of any license may seek prompt judicial review of such
administrative action in any court of competent jurisdiction. The
administrative action shall be promptly reviewed by the court.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-78)
§ 114.22 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Non-transferable. A license granted under this chapter shall be deemed
non-transferable. A licensee shall not transfer or attempt to transfer his or
her or its license to another, nor shall a licensee operate an adult oriented
business under the authority of a license, or for the classification designated
on the license.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-79)
   (B)   Additional regulations for adult motels. Evidence that a sleeping room
in a hotel, motel or a similar commercial establishment has been rented and
vacated two or more times in a period of time that is less than ten hours
creates a rebuttable presumption that the establishment is an adult motel as
that term is defined in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-80)
   (C)   Exhibition of adult explicit films in viewing rooms. A person who
operates or causes to be operated an adult oriented business, other than an
adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of less than 150
square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, live entertainment or other
video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for an adult oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
be required; each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some
identifiable scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The county may waive the foregoing diagram for
renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the county.
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations identifiable, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in division (C)(5) above remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials and, at all
times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been identifiable as an area in which patrons will not be permitted
in the application filed pursuant to division (C)(1) above.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing booths or rooms.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes
exist.
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed or, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous
material shall be used.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-81)
   (D)   Escort agencies regulations. An escort agency shall not employ any
person under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-82)
   (E)   Nude model studios regulations.
      (1)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
      (2)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if the person
appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (E)(2) the person
under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view to any other person.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-83)
      (3)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or
mattress in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a
reception room open to the public.
   (F)   Public nudity regulations.
      (1)   It shall be a Class C misdemeanor for a person who knowingly and
intentionally, in an adult oriented business, appears in a state of nudity or
depicts specified sexual activities.
      (2)   It shall be a Class C misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude
in an adult oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron
or customer or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any
employee, while said employee is semi-nude in an adult oriented business.
      (3)   It shall be a Class C misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude,
to touch a customer or the clothing of a customer.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-84)
   (G)   Children in adult oriented business prohibited. A person commits a
Class C misdemeanor if the person knowingly allows a person under the age of 18
years on the premises of an adult oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-85)
   (H)   Hours of operation. No adult oriented business, except for an adult
motel, may remain open at any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
on weekdays and Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-86)
   (I)   Exemptions. It is a defense to prosecution under division (F) above
that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college,
community college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation, or by
a private college or university which maintains and operates educational
programs in which credits are transferable to a college, community college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation; and
      (2)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-87)
   (J)   Injunction. A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult
oriented business without a valid driver’s license or in violation of § 40-5-12
of the Zoning Code is subject to a suit for injunctive and/or declaratory
relief in a court of competent jurisdiction, as well as prosecution for
criminal violations.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-88)
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who operates an adult business, or his or her agent or
employee, commits a Class C misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of $500, if the
person refused to permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it
is open for business (in violation of § 114.18).
(Prior Code, § 8-4-67)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits a Class C misdemeanor (punishable by a fine of
$500) if, as the person in control of a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or
similar commercial establishment that does not have an adult oriented license,
he or she rents or subrents a sleeping room to a person and, within ten hours
from the time the room is rented, he or she rents or subrents the same room
again (in violation of §
114.22(B)).
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT
mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-80)
   (D)   A person having a duty under §
114.22(C)(1) commits a Class C misdemeanor (punishable by a fine of $500) if he
or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-81)
   (E)   A person commits a Class C misdemeanor (punishable by a fine of $500)
if the person acts as an escort or agrees to act as an escort for any person
under the age of 18 years (in violation of § 114.22(D)).
(Prior Code, § 8-4-82)
   (F)   A person commits a Class C misdemeanor (punishable by a fine of $500)
offense if the person appears in a state of nudity, or knowingly allows another
person to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude model studio
premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way (in violation of §
114.22(E)).
(Prior Code, § 8-4-83)
   (G)   Public nudity regulations:
      (1)   It shall be a Class C misdemeanor (punishable by a fine of $500)
for a person who knowingly and intentionally, in an adult oriented business,
appears in a state of nudity or depicts specified sexual activities (in
violation of §
114.22(F)(1));
      (2)   It shall be a Class C misdemeanor (punishable by a fine of $500)
for an employee, while semi-nude in an adult oriented business, to solicit any
pay or gratuity from any patron or customer or for any patron or customer to
pay or give any gratuity to any employee, while said employee is semi-nude in
an adult oriented business (in violation of §
114.22(F)(2)); and
      (3)   It shall be a Class C misdemeanor (punishable by a fine of $500)
for an employee, while semi-nude, to touch a customer or the clothing of a
customer (in violation of §
114.22(F)(3)).
(Prior Code, § 8-4-84)
   (H)   Children in adult oriented business prohibited: a person commits a
Class C misdemeanor (punishable by a fine of $500) if the person knowingly
allows a person under the age of 18 years on the premises of an adult oriented
business (in violation of §
114.22(G).
(Prior Code, § 8-4-85)
   (I)   Violations of §
114.22(J) shall be deemed a Class C misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $750.
Each day an adult oriented business so operates is a separate offense or
violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-88)
CHAPTER 115: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Program mission
   
115.02   Adoption by reference
   
115.03   Definitions
Permit Requirements
   
115.15   Permit required
   
115.16   Permit issuance
   
115.17   Permit renewals
   
115.18   Permit updates
   
115.19   Permit suspension
   
115.20   Reinstatement of a suspended permit
   
115.21   Permit revocation
Administration
   
115.30   Food establishment construction or remodeling
   
115.31   Food-borne disease survey
   
115.32   Embargo and condemnation
Inspections
   
115.45   Permit classifications
   
115.46   Inspection frequency
   
115.47   Right of entry
Hearings
   
115.60   Hearing before the health authority
   
115.61   Hearing before the Board of Health
 
   
115.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 115.01 PROGRAM MISSION.
   In order to protect the citizens within its jurisdiction from contracting
and transmitting food-borne diseases, the County Health Department shall
perform a comprehensive food protection program. The County Health Department
shall undertake activities to identify, reduce and, whenever possible,
eliminate factors that may cause food-borne illnesses in order to reduce the
incidence of food-borne illnesses.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.02 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   In addition to those provisions set forth herein, this chapter hereby
adopts by reference the current edition and subsequent revisions of the
following:
      (1)   Illinois Department of Public Health Food Code, 77 Ill. Admn. Code
750;
      (2)   Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act, 410 ILCS 625;
      (3)   Bed and Breakfast Act, 50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.;
      (4)   Smoke Free Illinois Act, 410 ILCS 82.
   (B)   The program shall include enforcement authority as outlined in the
County Health Department food inspection and enforcement procedures. The Board
of Health shall have the authority to establish and determine such procedures.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained §
115.02, the following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of this chapter.
   ADULTERATED. The condition of any food:
      (1)   If it bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious substance in a
quantity that may render it injurious to health; or
      (2)   If it bears or contains any added poisonous or deleterious
substance for which no safe tolerance has been established by regulation, or in
excess of such tolerance of one that has been established; or
      (3)   If it consists, in whole or in part, of any filthy, putrid or
decomposed substance, or if it is otherwise unfit for human consumption; or
      (4)   If it has been processed, prepared, packed or held under unsanitary
conditions whereby it may have been contaminated with filth or whereby it may
have been rendered injurious to health; or
      (5)   If it is, in whole or in part, the product of a diseased animal or
animal that has died otherwise than by slaughter; or
      (6)   If its containers are composed, in whole or in part, of any
poisonous or deleterious substance that may render their contents injurious to
health.
   BOARD OF HEALTH or PUBLIC HEALTH BOARD. The Effingham County Board of
Health.
   EXTENSIVELY REMODELED. Whenever an existing structure is converted for use
as a food establishment, or whenever any structural additions or alterations
are made to existing establishments; such as, changes, modifications and
extensions of plumbing systems, excluding routine maintenance.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked or processed edible substance, ice, beverage or
ingredient used or intended for use or sale, in whole or in part, for human
consumption.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.  
      (1)   An operation that:
         (a)   Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends food directly to the
consumer, or otherwise provides human consumption, such as a restaurant,
satellite- or catered-feeding location, catering operation if the operation
provides food directly to a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport
people, market, vending location, conveyance used to transport people,
institution or food pantry; and
         (b)   Relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly, or
indirectly, through a delivery service such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carriers.
      (2)   Includes:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as transportation vehicle or a
central preparation facility, that supplies a vending location or satellite-
feeding location, unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority; and
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary or permanent facility or location. This inclusion applies regardless
of where consumption is, on or off the premises, and where there is a charge
for food.
      (3)   Does not include:
         (a)   An establishment that offers only prepackaged foods that are not
time- or temperature-controlled for safety food;
         (b)   A produce stand that only offers whole, uncut, fresh fruits and
vegetables;
         (c)   A food-processing plant, including those that are located on the
premises of a food establishment;
         (d)   A kitchen in a private home, such as a small family daycare
provider or a bed and breakfast operation, as defined in the Bed and Breakfast
Act, 50 ILCS 820/1 et seq., that prepares and offers food to guests;
         (e)   A private home that receives catered or home-delivered food; a
closed family function where food is prepared or served for individual family
consumption; or
         (f)   A cottage food operation.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The person or persons who have been designated by the
County Board of Health to administer the affairs of the County Health
Department (i.e., the administrator or his or her representative).
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition or event that poses a particular,
immediate hazard to the public health, such as fires, floods, total loss of
refrigeration, total loss of potable water supply, backup of sewage into an
establishment, or evidence of recent food-borne illness.
   MISBRANDED. The presence of any written, printed or graphic matter upon or
accompanying food or containers of food that is false or misleading.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A vehicle-mounted food service establishment designed to
be readily movable.
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. An organization recognized as such pursuant to
the laws of the State of Illinois. This definition does not include
organizations in possession of any annual liquor license.
   PERMIT HOLDER. Any person, or his or her agent, who applies for a permit to
operate pursuant to this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, co-partnership, company,
corporation, trustee, lessee, receiver, association, municipality, or any
political subdivision or department thereof, or any other entity, or its agent.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food establishment that operates at a fixed
location for more than two consecutive days, but less than 14 consecutive days,
in conjunction with a single event or celebration.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
**** PERMIT REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 115.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to open for business or otherwise
operate any food establishment in the county who does not possess a valid
operating permit for that establishment issued by the health authority. A fine
shall be assessed to any food establishment in operation without a valid
permit, and the facility shall be closed until a valid permit is obtained. Only
a person who complies with the requirements of this chapter, including payment
of permit fees and all fines originating from enforcement of the Illinois Food
Code and Smoke Free Illinois Act, 410 ILCS 82, shall be eligible to receive and
retain such a permit.
   (B)   Permits must be conspicuously posted. Permits shall be annual, except
that the Health Department may issue temporary food establishment permits as
necessary. All persons complying with this chapter shall be entitled to receive
such a permit. Permits may not be transferred from one person to another, nor
from one location to another, A valid permit is one that is not suspended,
revoked or expired. Establishments closed for more than three weeks may be
required to procure a new permit from the Health Department. The Board of
Health shall have the authority to establish and determine fees for permits.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.16 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a food establishment must comply with
any existing county or city zoning provisions, where applicable, and shall make
written application for a permit, on forms provided by the Health Department, a
minimum of 30 business days prior to the proposed date of opening.
   (B)   Whenever a food establishment is to be newly constructed or
extensively remodeled, prepared plans for construction or remodeling shall be
submitted to the Health Department in accordance with §
115.30 of this chapter. The applicant shall have all plumbing installed by a
licensed plumber, subject to approval by a state plumbing inspector.
   (C)   Any person desiring to operate a temporary food establishment must
comply with any existing county or city zoning provisions, where applicable,
and shall make written application for a permit, on forms provided by the
Health Department, a minimum of five business days prior to the proposed date
of opening at the anticipated event. Failure to do so may result in rejection
of the application and denial of the permit. Applications submitted to the
Health Department less than five business days prior to the proposed date of
opening at the event specified on the application shall be assessed a penalty
fee.
   (D)   Upon receipt of such an application and permit fee, the Health
Department shall make any necessary inspections of the establishment to
determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter. When inspections
determine that the applicable requirements have been met, a permit shall be
issued to the applicant by the Health Department.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.17 PERMIT RENEWALS.
   (A)   All permits issued by the Health Department to permanent food
establishments in the county expire on December 31 of each year. Annual renewal
of permits shall be required for continued operation of the food establishment.
Any person desiring to renew a permit shall make written application on forms
provided by the Health Department.
   (B)   All fees for the annual renewal of permits are due 15 days prior to
the permit expiration date. Persons failing to submit the appropriate fee and
renewal application by the above-stated renewal due date shall be assessed a
late payment penalty in addition to the appropriate permit fee.
   (C)   Any person failing to submit the total fee and renewal application by
December 31 shall be considered to be operating a food establishment without a
valid permit. Failure of any food establishment in the county to possess a
valid permit at any time of operation constitutes a violation of this chapter,
and subjects the food establishment to penalties as outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.18 PERMIT UPDATES.
   (A)   The permit holder has an affirmative and continuing requirement to
update the original and all renewal applications. As a result, the permit
holder must inform the Health Department of any changes in the information
listed in these applications within 30 days.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section, or knowingly
furnishing false information on the original or renewal applications, shall be
grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of any permit issued pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.19 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permits may be temporarily suspended by the health authority upon
notice to the permit holder of the same. Permit suspension shall result in the
immediate cessation of all food-related operations, including the use or sale
of any food, in whole or in part, intended for human consumption.
   (B)   Reasons for suspending the permit include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter after
notification by the health authority;
      (3)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter within the
time established by the health authority;
      (4)   Interference with the health authority in the performance of their
duties, including, but not limited to, failure to allow the health authority
access to the permit holder’s building or records;
      (5)   Failure to update the original and renewal applications, as
required by this chapter;
      (6)   Knowingly furnishing false information on the original or renewal
applications; or
      (7)   Failure to comply with notices or citations issued for violations
of the Smoke Free Illinois Act, 410 ILCS 82, including, but not limited to,
receiving a Smoke Free Illinois citation, failing to request a hearing to
contest the notice or citation within ten calendar days, and failing to pay the
fine within 28 calendar days, or failing to obey the findings and final order
of an Illinois Department of Public Health administrative judge.
   (C)   Upon making a determination that a suspension is appropriate, the
health authority shall advise the permit holder, or their managing or
registered agent, in writing, of the intended suspension. The notice shall be
delivered in person by the health authority or sent via certified mail.
   (D)   The permit holder may make a written request for a hearing if it is
filed with the health authority by the permit holder within five business days.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, permits for food
establishments may be suspended without warning, notice or hearing when, in the
judgment of the health authority, unsanitary or other prohibited conditions
exist that will result in an imminent health hazard to the public.
      (1)   Upon making a determination that a suspension without notice is
appropriate, the health authority shall immediately, without warning or notice,
advise the license holder of the condition and all food service operations
shall be immediately discontinued.
      (2)   Any permit holder to whom such an order is issued shall comply
immediately and surrender the suspended permit to the health authority.
      (3)   Before resuming operations following a suspension of service
imposed by the health authority because imminent health hazards were
identified, the facility must successfully pass a re-inspection by the health
authority to assure the identified imminent health hazards have been
eliminated.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.20 REINSTATEMENT OF A SUSPENDED PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit holder whose permit has been suspended may request, in
writing, a re-inspection by the health authority to determine if corrections
have been made, for the purpose of reinstatement of the permit.
      (1)   The request shall include a statement signed by the permit holder
that, in his or her opinion, the conditions causing suspension of the permit
have been corrected.
      (2)   Within ten business days following receipt of a written request,
the health authority shall make a re-inspection.
   (B)   Suspended permits shall be reinstated when corrections are made and
the applicant is in compliance with the requirements of this chapter, including
payment of the permit reinstatement fee and all fines originating from
enforcement of the Smoke Free Illinois Act, 410 ILCS 82, or if the health
authority grants a variance to the requirements.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.21 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits may be revoked by the health authority upon notice to the
permit holder of the same.
   (B)   Reasons for revoking the permit include, but are not limited to, the
following;
      (1)   A serious violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Repeatedly failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
or
      (3)   Interference with the health authority in the performance of their
duties, including, but not limited to, failure to allow the health authority
access to the permit holder’s building or records.
   (C)   (1)   Upon making a determination that a revocation is appropriate,
the health authority shall advise the permit holder, or his or her managing or
registered agent, in writing, of the intended revocation.
      (2)   The notice shall be delivered in person by the health authority or
sent via certified mail, indicating that the permit shall be permanently
revoked at the end of five days following service of such notice, unless the
permit holder files a written request for a hearing with the health authority
within the five-day period.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 115.30 FOOD ESTABLISHMENT CONSTRUCTION OR REMODELING.
   (A)   Whenever any food establishment is to be constructed or extensively
remodeled, or whenever an existing structure is to be converted to use as a
food establishment, plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling
or conversion shall be submitted to the Health Department for review and
approval before construction, remodeling or conversion may begin.
   (B)   The plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed layout,
arrangement, mechanical plans and construction materials of work areas, and the
type and specification of fixed equipment and facilities, insofar as food
preparation, storage and restroom facilities are concerned.
   (C)   A pre-opening inspection shall be conducted to inspect the
establishment prior to the beginning or resumption of operations to determine
compliance with the approved plans and specifications, and with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.31 FOOD-BORNE DISEASE SURVEY.
   (A)   A surveillance and control system shall be established to monitor,
identify and record instances of food-borne disease; to detect sources of
contamination; to establish factors that contribute to outbreaks; and to
recommend preventive and control measures and take appropriate action to
prevent further spread of disease.
   (B)   Hazardous food shall be identified and its distribution shall be
restricted in accordance with procedures that include the following:
      (1)   Identification of and prohibition against foods that are unsafe and
pose a potential threat to health and safety;
      (2)   Hold or embargo authority, criteria for destruction of adulterated
or contaminated foods, and notification of recalls;
      (3)   Investigation of facilities upon receipt of complaints, following
events such as fire, natural disaster and other occurrences that may compromise
food safety;
      (4)   Establishment of a system to encourage community reporting of food-
borne illness to the local health department, which will notify the Department
within 24 hours of occurrence, whenever possible;
      (5)   Information shall be made available to the general public
concerning prevention of food-borne illness and describing proper ways for
storing, preparing, canning, preserving, and serving food; and
      (6)   Information shall be made available to primary and secondary
schools to instruct children regarding food sanitation, personal hygiene and
related subjects.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.32 EMBARGO AND CONDEMNATION.
   (A)   Food may be examined or sampled by the health authority to determine
freedom from adulteration or misbranding. Upon written notice to the permit
holder, the health authority may condemn or embargo equipment or food they
determine or have probable cause to believe to be unwholesome or otherwise
unfit for use. Such conditions include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Food that has been adulterated;
      (2)   Food that has been misbranded;
      (3)   Time/temperature control for safety food is found to be in the
optimal temperature range for the growth of pathogenic, food-borne bacteria as
defined in the Illinois Food Code;
      (4)   Where equipment used in the preparation of food products is found
to be in a state of disrepair, unsafe, unsanitary or unsuitable for use in the
preparation, display or service of food; or
      (5)   In the event that food is contaminated as a result of fire, flood,
sewage backup, power outage or similar events.
   (B)   Condemned or embargoed food may be permitted to be suitably stored
unless storage is not possible without risk to the public health; in which case
immediate destruction shall be ordered and accomplished.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or alter a condemnation
or embargo order, notice or tag placed on food or food containers by the health
authority. No such food, or containers thereof, shall be relabeled, replaced,
reprocessed, altered, disposed of, or destroyed without the permission of the
health authority, except with an order by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Where equipment used in the preparation of food products is found to
be in a state of disrepair, unsafe, unsanitary or unsuitable for use in the
preparation, storage, display or service of food, it shall be taken out of use,
and a hold order placed on it by the health authority.
      (1)   The equipment may not be put back into service until written
permission is obtained from the health authority.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or alter a hold
order, notice or tag placed on equipment by the health authority.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
**** INSPECTIONS ****
§ 115.45 PERMIT CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The health authority shall inspect each food establishment within the
county based upon the priority of the establishment. Priority will be based
upon the following criteria.
   (B)   For each facility, the County Health Department shall annually assess
the relative risks of causing food-borne illness, classifying each facility as
Category I (high priority), Category II (medium priority) or Category III (low
priority).
   (C)   CATEGORY I FACILITY means a food establishment that presents a high
relative risk of causing food-borne illness, based on the large number of food-
handling operations typically implicated in food-borne outbreaks and/or the
type of population served by the facility. The following criteria shall be used
to classify high priority facilities:
      (1)   Whenever cooling of time/temperature control for safety food occurs
as part of the food-handling operations at the facility;
      (2)   When time/temperature control for safety food are prepared hot or
cold and held hot or cold for more than 12 hours before serving;
      (3)   If time/temperature control for safety food previously cooked and
cooled must be reheated;
      (4)   When preparing time/temperature control for safety food for off-
premises service for which time-temperature requirements during transportation,
holding and service are relevant;
      (5)   Whenever complex preparation of foods, or extensive handling of raw
ingredients with hand contact for ready-to-eat foods, occurs as part of the
food-handling operations at the facility;
      (6)   If vacuum packaging, other forms of reduced-oxygen packaging, or
other special processes occur at the facility; and/or
      (7)   Whenever serving a highly susceptible population, where these
individuals comprise the majority of the consuming population.
   (D)   CATEGORY II FACILITY means a food establishment that presents a medium
relative risk of causing food-bome illness, based upon few food-handling
operations typically implicated in food-borne illness outbreaks. The following
criteria shall be used to classify medium risk facilities:
      (1)   If hot or cold foods are held at required temperatures for no more
than 12 hours and are restricted to same day service;
      (2)   If preparing foods for service from raw ingredients uses only
minimal assembly; and/or
      (3)   Foods that require complex preparation (whether canned, frozen or
freshly prepared) are obtained from approved food-processing plants, Category I
food establishments, or retail food stores.
   (E)   CATEGORY III FACILITY means a food establishment that presents a low
relative risk of causing food-borne illness, based upon few or no food-handling
operations typically implicated in food-borne illness outbreaks. The following
criteria shall be used to classify low priority facilities:
      (1)   Only pre-packaged foods are available or served in the facility,
and any time/temperature control for safety food available are commercially
pre-packaged in an approved food-processing plant;
      (2)   Only limited preparation of food that is not time/temperature
control for safety food and beverages, such as snack foods and carbonated
beverages, occurs at the facility; and/or
      (2)   Only beverages, alcoholic or non-alcoholic, are served at the
facility.
   (F)   The Health Department may reclassify a facility, based upon its
experience with the facility (i.e., inspection history, number, frequency and
severity of violations, corrective action, and the like), if, in its opinion, a
health hazard will not result from the reclassification or the reclassification
will provide better protection for the public. The basis for this decision must
be documented
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.46 INSPECTION FREQUENCY.
   (A)   Facilities shall be inspected at least as often as prescribed by the
following schedule.
      (1)   Category I facilities shall receive at least three inspections per
year, or two inspections per year if one of the following conditions is met:
         (a)   A certified food protection manager is present at all times the
facility is in operation; or
         (b)   Employees involved in food operations receive a HACCP-training
exercise, in-service training in another food service sanitation area, or
attend an educational conference on food safety or sanitation.
      (2)   Category II facilities shall receive at least one inspection per
year.
      (3)   Category III facilities shall receive at least one inspection every
two years.
   (B)   The health authority shall conduct re-inspections as necessary to
determine compliance with this chapter. Re-inspections, consultation and
enforcement actions shall be conducted in accordance with County Health
Department’s food inspection and enforcement procedures as necessary to ensure
correction of deficiencies and violations of applicable ordinances, agreements
or rules.
   (C)   In the event of an imminent health hazard, the food establishment
owner shall immediately notify the health authority so that an inspection can
be performed.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.47 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   After proper identification, the health authority shall have access at any
reasonable time to any establishment regulated by this chapter. For the purpose
of this section, REASONABLE TIME shall mean at all times the establishment is
open to the public. The health authority shall be permitted to examine all
areas and records of the establishment that are reasonably necessary to their
inspection or investigation. Denial of access, as herein provided, shall be
deemed as interference with the health authority in the performance of their
duties, including, but not limited to, denial of access to the license holder’s
building or records.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
**** HEARINGS ****
§ 115.60 HEARING BEFORE THE HEALTH AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Any person affected by any order or notice issued by the health
authority in connection with the enforcement of any section of this chapter,
may file with the office of the Health Department a written request for a
hearing before the health authority.
      (1)   The health authority shall designate the time and place of the
hearing to take place within 30 days of the date in which the written request
was filed.
      (2)   The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time and
place of the hearing not less than five days prior to the date on which the
hearing is to be held.
   (B)   If, as a result of the hearing, the health authority finds that strict
compliance with the order or notice would cause undue hardship on the
petitioner, and that the public health would be adequately protected and
substantial justice done by varying or withdrawing the order or notice, the
health authority may modify or withdraw the order, or make requirements in
addition to those prescribed in this chapter for the purpose of properly
protecting the public health.
   (C)   The health authority shall render a decision within ten days after the
date of the hearing, which shall be reduced to writing and placed on file in
the office of the County Health Department as a matter of public record.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the health authority may seek
relief through a hearing before the County Board of Health.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.61 HEARING BEFORE THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the health authority rendered
as the result of a hearing held in accordance with §
115.60 may file with the President of the County Board of Health a written
request for a hearing before the Board of Health.
      (1)   The President of the County Board of Health shall designate the
time and place of the hearing to take place within 30 days of the date on which
the request was filed.
      (2)   The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time and
place of the hearing not less than five days prior to the date on which the
hearing is to be held.
   (C)   (1)   If, as a result of facts elicited as a result of the hearing,
the County Board of Health finds that strict compliance with the decision of
the health authority would cause undue hardship on the petitioner and that the
public health would be adequately protected and substantial justice done by
granting a variance from the decision of the health authority, the County Board
of Health may grant a variance.
      (2)   As a condition for granting the variance, the County Board of
Health may, where it deems necessary, make requirements in addition to those
prescribed by this chapter, all for the purpose of properly protecting the
public health.
   (D)   The County Board of Health shall render a decision within ten days
after the date of the hearing, which shall be reduced to writing and placed on
file in the office of the County Health Department. A copy the decision shall
be served on the petitioner personally or by delivery to the petitioner via
certified mail.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be assessed a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500.
      (1)   Each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Each day a particular violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   The County State’s Attorney shall bring such actions in the name of
the People of the State of Illinois, or may bring action for an injunction to
restrain such violation or to enjoin the operation of any such establishment
causing such violation.
(Ord. 18-73, passed 8-20-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   TRUANCY
CHAPTER 130: TRUANCY
Section
   
130.01   Purpose
   
130.02   Chronic truant
   
130.03   Truancy prohibited
   
130.04   Valid cause for absence
   
130.05   Enforcement
   
130.06   Distribution of ordinance fines
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PURPOSE.
   Absenteeism from school by students under the age of 17 has become a
significant problem, and in many instances police records establish that
persons over the age of six and under the age of 17 who are frequently absent
from school become involved in offenses of vandalism, drug abuse, alcohol
consumption, disorderly conduct, and other offenses constituting crimes in the
State of Illinois. The purpose of this chapter is to take appropriate action to
cause a reduction in absenteeism from school by students over the age of six
and under the age of 17.
(Ord. 14-32, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 18-63, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 130.02 CHRONIC TRUANT.
   Any minor who fails within the definition of a "chronic truant" assigned
such minors under § 26-2a of the Illinois School Code, 105 ILCS 5/26-2a, and §
3-33.5(a-3) of the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, 705 ILCS 405/3-33/5(a-3). These
sections define a "chronic truant" as "any minor subject to compulsory school
attendance for 5% or more of the previous 180 regular attendance days."
(Ord. 14-32, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 18-63, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 130.03 TRUANCY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within Effingham County who is required
by law to attend school and who is subject to the compulsory attendance
requirement of the Illinois School Code and enrolled in grades 1 through 12 in
a public, private, or parochial school to absent himself or herself from
attendance at school during the hour in which he or she is enrolled, including
summer school, without permission of such student's school authorities. Any
person who does not attend school when it is in regular session shall be guilty
of truancy.
(Ord. 14-32, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 18-63, passed 7-16-2018) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 VALID CAUSE FOR ABSENCE.
   VALID CAUSE FOR ABSENCE is hereby defined as illness, observation of a
religious holiday, death in the immediate family, family emergency, and/or
other such situations beyond the control of the Effingham County student, as
determined by the Board of Education of the Effingham County School District in
which the student is enrolled, or such other circumstances which cause
reasonable concern to the parent/guardian for the safety or health of the
Effingham County student.
(Ord. 14-32, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 18-63, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 130.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Truant Officers of any Effingham County School District or of the
Bond-Christian-Effingham-Fayette-Montgomery Counties Regional Office of
Education #3, the Sheriff and Deputy Sheriffs of Effingham County, and any
other law enforcement office of any city, village, or political subdivision
within Effingham County, are hereby empowered to enforce this chapter by the
issuance of tickets, specifying the date and time of violation, and the
Effingham County School District of enrollment of the truant Effingham County
student, and are hereby given discretion to determine whether the violation
shall be dealt with by the issuance of a written or verbal warning or by the
issuance of a ticket, and whether such ticket may be disposed of by the payment
of the minimum required fine to the Circuit Clerk of Effingham County, or
whether a Court appearance will be required.
   (B)   All tickets issued hereunder shall be delivered by the issuing officer
to the Effingham County Circuit Clerk, who shall assign to the same a case
number for each ticket and shall notify both the State's Attorney, the issuer
and the offender of all Court dates for each ticket.
   (C)   Upon the issuance of a ticket hereunder, a violation of this chapter
shall be prosecuted by the State's Attorney as a petty offense, pursuant to the
Illinois Code of Criminal Procedure. All tickets issued hereunder must be
prosecuted within 12 months of issuance.
(Ord. 14-32, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 18-63, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 130.06 DISTRIBUTION OF ORDINANCE FINES.
   The fines collected by this chapter shall be divided equally between the
school district impacted by the violation and the Effingham County Government.
(Ord. 14-32, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 18-63, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any Effingham County student to be absent
from attendance without valid cause for absence, for all of any part of a
school day in the Effingham County School District in which the Effingham
County Student is enrolled. It is the responsibility of the parent/guardian who
has custody or control of any child between the ages of six and 17 to cause
that child to: (1) enroll in one of the Effingham County School Districts
(thereby becoming an Effingham County student); and (2) attend some public
school in the district wherein that child/Effingham County student resides the
entire time it is in session during the regular school term, and/or any summer
or other special term in which the Effingham County student may be enrolled.
Any Effingham County student violating, or parent/guardian of an Effingham
County student violating the terms of the chapter, which shall be punished as a
petty offense, shall be subject to the following fines, not to exceed the
limitations set forth in 55 ILCS 5/5-1078.2.
      (1)   A fine of not less than $50 shall be imposed for the first
violation by a student during a given school year;
      (2)   A fine of not less than $75 shall be imposed for the second
violation by a student during a given school year; and
      (3)   A fine of not less than $100 shall be imposed for the third or
subsequent violation by a student during a given school year.
   (B)   Each day, or portion thereof, upon which a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate violation, with each separate violation being subject to
a separate penalty, as provided herein.
   (C)   Both an Effingham County student, and that student's parent/guardian,
may be charged and convicted with the violation of the chapter when the student
shall be found to be in violation of the chapter. However, the payment of all
applicable fines imposed against the Effingham County student or the parent/
guardian for a given violation by either the parent/guardian or the Effingham
County student shall operate to relieve the non-paying party from any
obligation to pay fines arising from the same violation.
   (D)   No conviction shall be entered or fine imposed upon any student or
parent/guardian for the violation of this chapter where such student is:
      (1)   Attending a parochial or private school for the entire time it is
in session during its regular school term; or
      (2)   Attending or otherwise participating in an alternative education or
home school program for the entire time such program shall be in session or
operation.
(Ord. 14-32, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 18-63, passed 7-16-2018)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Scope and legal authority
   
150.002   Title
   
150.003   Application of resolution
   
150.004   Intent and purpose
   
150.005   Interpretation
   
150.006   Administration
   
150.007   Instances when plats will not be required
   
150.008   Lot recording
   
150.009   Suitability of land for subdivision development
   
150.010   Definitions
   
150.011   Design standards
   
150.012   Changes and amendments
   
150.013   Validity
Jurisdiction and Procedure
   
150.025   Plat, when required
   
150.026   Preliminary plat
   
150.027   Subdivision near municipality
   
150.028   Improvement plan procedures
   
150.029   Change in the preliminary plat
   
150.030   Final plat procedures
   
150.031   Recording procedure
   
150.032   Official filings
Specifications for Plats
   
150.045   Preliminary plat requirements
   
150.046   Preliminary plat map
   
150.047   Existing conditions
   
150.048   Proposed conditions
   
150.049   Other submission items
Improvements
   
150.060   Improvement plan requirements
   
150.061   Minimum improvements
Final Plat Requirements
   
150.075   Generally
   
150.076   Final plat data
   
150.077   Other supportive data
   
150.078   Final plat certificates
Bonding
   
150.090   Construction bond or escrow agreement
   
150.091   Construction bond
   
150.092   Escrow agreements
   
150.093   Release
   
150.094   Forfeit
   
150.095   Eligible sureties
   
150.096   Inspection of improvement
   
150.097   Maintenance bond
   
150.098   Acceptance
   
150.099   Provisions for maintenance and operation of private utilities or
facilities
Variances
   
150.110   Conditions of variation
   
150.111   Variance procedures
   
150.112   Subdivision Committee action
   
150.113   Filing
   
150.114   Judicial remedy by a local court of record
Vacation of Plats
   
150.125   Plat vacation
   
150.126   Submittal documents
   
150.127   Approvals required
   
150.128   Subdivision Committee review
   
150.129   Vacation recording
 
   
150.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 150.001 SCOPE AND LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of directing future development of the county and for
the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare of
persons living within the territory governed, the provisions and regulations
hereinafter contained shall govern the subdividing and platting of lands lying
within the area of jurisdiction of the county. The chapter shall further govern
vacation of subdivisions and streets.
   (B)   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivision of land
contained herein shall apply within the county as permitted by state statutes.
In the event of overlapping jurisdiction within the project area, the extent of
jurisdiction shall be determined and agreed upon between the county and the
municipality or municipalities concerned and as provided by state statutes.
Except in the case of resubdivision, this chapter shall not apply to any lot or
lots forming a part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the County
Recorder of Deeds prior to the effective date of this chapter. This chapter
does not intend to repeal, annul or in any way impair or interfere with
existing provisions of other laws or resolutions except those specifically
repealed by, or in conflict with, this chapter, or interfere with restrictive
covenants running with the land. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the land than is impose or required by such existing
provisions of law, resolution or restrictive covenants, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-1)
§ 150.002 TITLE.
   This chapter may be known, referred to and cited as “The Land Subdivision
Resolution of Effingham County, Illinois”.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-2)
§ 150.003 APPLICATION OF RESOLUTION.
   No lot in a subdivision, as defined herein, may be conveyed unless a final
plat of the property has been approved according to the requirements and
provisions of this chapter, and recorded in the office of the County Recorder
of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-3)
§ 150.004 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is intended for the purpose of encouraging coordinated,
efficient and economic development of the county, provide adequate services and
utilities, safe convenient access and a desirable and attractive living
environment through good subdivision design.
   (B)   In achieving these purposes, the county shall utilize development
standards which are directed toward reasonable costs for initial development
and continuing maintenance; such standards shall include the following:
      (1)   The proper location and width of streets and the proper location of
building setback lines, open spaces, recreational areas and public lands;
      (2)   The avoidance of conditions which would lead to the creation of
blighted areas;
      (3)   The avoidance of overcrowding of population and congestion of
vehicular traffic;
      (4)   Proper grading and improvement of streets, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks and provision of water, sewer, storm water drainage and erosions
control;
      (5)   The provisions of adequate space for traffic and utility
facilities; for access of emergency apparatus; and for the control of the
number, spacing, type and design of access points to existing or future
streets;
      (6)   Provision of adequate right-of-way easements such that extensions
are continued within subdivision and may be continued to adjacent lands; and
      (7)   Restrict or prohibit subdivision of lands for uses which are
dangerous to health, safety or property in times of flood or which, with
reasonably anticipated improvements, will cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-4)
§ 150.005 INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter is intended as minimum requirement to achieve the above-stated
purposes. If any other provision of law related to any matter covered herein,
the regulation providing the higher standard shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-5)
§ 150.006 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by the County Subdivision Committee of
the County Board.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-6)
§ 150.007 INSTANCES WHEN PLATS WILL NOT BE REQUIRED.
   The provisions of these regulations do not apply and no plat is required in
any of the following instances:
   (A)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
   (B)   The sale or exchange of parcels between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land;
   (C)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other pipe
lines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   (D)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   (E)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyance relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   (F)   Conveyance made to correct description in prior conveyance;
   (G)   The division of land for cemetery usage; or
   (H)   The division and distribution of land pursuant to law or court order.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-7)
§ 150.008 LOT RECORDING.
   The County Recorder of Deeds shall not record any plat to subdivided land
located within the county, exclusive of incorporated areas or within one and
one-half miles of the corporate limits of any city, village or town having a
valid zoning code in effect without first obtaining approval of the County
Subdivision Committee or its designated representative.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-8)
§ 150.009 SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   Land unsuitable for subdivision development due to drainage, high water
table, flood hazard, hillside area, rock formation or any other conditions
constituting a danger to health, life or property shall not be approved for
subdivision development unless the subdivider presents evidence or data to the
County Subdivision Committee establishing that the methods proposed to meet any
such conditions are adequate to avoid any danger to health, life or property.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-9)
§ 150.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way primarily designed to serve as access to the
side or rear of those properties whose principal frontage is on some other
street, and is not intended for general traffic circulation.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets,
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, waterways or boundary lines
of the corporate limits of a municipality.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether temporary, semi-permanent or permanent,
designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of
persons, property, chattels, animals or substances of any kind.
   CONSTRUCTION BOND. A surety issued by an insurance company licensed to do
business in Illinois, or other proof of financial responsibility as set forth
in §§
150.090 through
150.099 and approved by the County Subdivision Committee to guarantee
installation of any improvements.
   CONTRACTOR. See SPECIFICATIONS definition.
   COUNTY. Effingham County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Effingham County, Illinois.
   COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGHWAYS. The Effingham County Superintendent of
Highways.
   DESIGN. The arrangement of uses on the land and the arrangement of
easements, lots and rights-of-way, including specifications of materials,
alignment, grade and width of these elements.
   DRAINAGEWAY. A watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek or ditch which carries
storm water runoff; which is fed by street or building gutters or by storm
water sewers, or which serves the purpose of draining water from the lands
adjacent to such watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek or ditch.
   DRIVEWAY. Private accessway leading from a public street to a dwelling unit
or building.
   EASEMENT. A strip of land for which the owner grants a right of use to
another for one or more designated purposes, which purposes are consistent with
the general property rights of the owner.
   FILING DATE. The beginning or starting date that commences after the
applicant has filed the last item of required data or information and has paid
the necessary fee(s), for review by the County Subdivision Committee of the
County Board.
   IMPROVEMENT. Refers to site grading, street work and utilities (including
water, sewer, electric, gas and storm water) to be installed or agreed to be
installed by the subdivider on land to be used for public or private streets,
and easements or other purposes as are necessary for the general use of lot
owners in the subdivision. Including the furnishing of all materials,
equipment, work and services such as engineering, staking and supervision, and
construction of all the improvements required in §§
150.045 through
150.049 or any other improvements that may be provided by the subdivider.
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for street improvements, site grading and storm water
drainage, including sanitary sewers and water facilities not owned and operated
by a public body or public utility to be installed in, or in conjunction with,
the subdivision.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for the
transfer of ownership or for building development, whether immediate or future.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation,
trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the
land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide
the same under these regulations.
   PERCOLATION TEST. A subsurface soil test at a depth of a proposed seepage
system or similar component of a sewage disposal system to determine the water
absorption capability of the soil.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE OR BOND. See CONSTRUCTION BOND.
   PLANS. All drawings, including general plans, cross sections, profiles,
working details and specifications, which the subdivider prepares or has
prepared to show the character, extent and details of the improvement required
in §§
150.060 and
150.061.
   PLAT. A map or drawing showing the lot and street arrangement or other
features or details of the area being subdivided, as required in this chapter
for preliminary and final approval and recording.
   RE-SUBDIVISION: See SUBDIVISION.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW). A strip or parcel of land over which the owner, by
dedication or otherwise, has granted the right of use for streets, also a land
measurement term, meaning the distance between lot property line which
generally contains not only the street pavement, but also the sidewalks,
planting strip and underground and some times above-ground utilities.
   SPECIFICATIONS. The Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction, prepared by the Department of Transportation of the state, as
adopted and amended by said Department, which are in effect at the time the
area is being subdivided. Any term in such specifications referring to state
departments or officials or to persons contracting with the state shall be
deemed to refer to applicable departments, officials or persons in the county
and the term “contractor” shall specifically apply to the subdivider who is
responsible for installing all of the improvements required in §§
150.060 and
150.061, even though the subdivider may enter into agreements for such
installing by other persons, firms or corporation.
   STREET. A public or private way for the purpose of vehicular travel. The
term includes all facilities which normally occur within the right-of-way; it
shall also include such other designation for a street as: a highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue, boulevard, lane, place,
drive, court or as otherwise designated, but excluding an alley or a way for
pedestrian use only.
   STREET ARTERIAL. Arterial highways interconnect collectors and local streets
with the principal system and vice versa, bring all developed areas within a
reasonable distance of principal streets, connect and provide direct access to
major traffic generators, provide secondary service to smaller communities, may
provide access to abutting property, and have medium volume design capacity and
travel speeds. Any street having an estimated average daily traffic (ADT) at
full development of the subdivision of greater than 5,000 or designed on the
county highway classification map shall be classified and constructed as an
arterial highway.
   STREET BUTT OR STUB. A street that is temporarily terminated, but is planned
for future continuation.
   STREET COLLECTOR. Collector streets interconnect the principal street system
with land access streets; provide internal circulation within residential,
commercial and industrial areas; provide access to abutting properties; and
have a moderate volume design capacity and travel speeds. Any street having an
estimated average daily traffic (ADT) at full development of the subdivision of
1,000 to 5,000 or designated on the county highways classification map shall be
classified and constructed as a collector street.
   STREET CUL-DE-SAC. A short, land access street, having only one end open for
vehicular traffic, and the other permanently terminated by a turn-around for
vehicles.
   STREET DEAD-END. Land access streets having only one end open to vehicular
traffic.
   STREET LOCAL. A street other than an arterial thoroughfare or collector
street and intended primarily for providing low volume traffic access to
abutting properties of limited number. Any street having an estimated average
daily traffic (ADT) of less than 1,000 at full development of the subdivision
shall be classified and constructed as a local street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed which requires permanent or temporary
location on or in the ground or is attached to something having a permanent or
temporary location on or in the ground.
   SUBDIVIDE. See SUBDIVISION.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
estate, trust or any other group or combination, acting as a unit, dividing or
proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision as defined herein,
and including any agent of the subdivider.
   SUBDIVISION. Either:
      (1)   The division of land into two or more tracts, sites or parcels any
of which are less than five acres in area; or
      (2)   The establishment or dedication of a road, highway, street or alley
through a tract of land regardless of area; provided, however, for the purpose
of this chapter tracts defined in §
150.007 will not be considered a SUBDIVISION.
   SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE. The County Subdivision Committee of the County Board
of Effingham County.
   TOWNSHIP HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER. The Township Highway Commissioner(s) of the
township(s) in which a subdivision is being proposed.
(Prior Code, § 34-2-1)
§ 150.011 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The arrangement of streets and lots shall give due regard to the topography
and other physical features of the property and shall meet the following
requirements and standards.
   (A)   Relation to adjoining street system. The arrangement of streets in new
subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the existing streets
in adjoining areas (or their proper projection where adjoining land is not
subdivided) insofar as they may be deemed necessary for public requirements.
The street and alley arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship to
owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and providing
convenient access to it. Offset street shall be avoided. The angle of
intersection between minor streets and major streets shall not vary by more
than ten degrees from a right angle. Streets obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall bear the names of the existing streets. Proposed street
names that are in conflict with existing street names shall not be approved.
   (B)   Street and alley width.
      (1)   Rights-of-way and pavement widths for streets shall be based on the
following:
 
          Minimum ROW Minimum Pavement Width Minimum Shoulder Width Each Side
Arterial  80          24 feet                10 feet
Collector 60          24 feet                6 feet
Local     60          24 feet                3 feet
 
      (2)   Alleys shall be at least 20 feet wide, and shall be maintained by
the lot owners fronting said alleys, and will never be publicly maintained.
   (C)   Private streets. Sixty feet wide.
   (D)   Easements. Easements of at least ten feet in width shall be dedicated
on each side of all rear lot lines and along side lot lines, where necessary,
for poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water or other
utilities. Easements of greater width may be required along or across lots
where necessary for the extension of main sewers or other utilities or where
both water and sewer lines are located in the same easements.
   (E)   Blocks.
      (1)   No block shall be longer than 1,200 feet.
      (2)   Courts, dead-end streets or other street space may be provided if
proper access is given to all lots from dedicated street or court. All dead-end
streets shall terminate in a dedicated street space having a minimum radius of
60 feet, or other satisfactory arrangement for turning of vehicles. Dead-end
streets shall not exceed 750 feet in length.
   (F)   Lots.
      (1)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory and desirable building sites, properly related to
topography and to the character of surrounding development.
      (2)   All side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight street
lines and radial to curved street lines except where a variation of this rule
will provide a better street and lot layout. Lots with double frontage shall be
avoided.
      (3)   No lot shall have a depth of less than 100 feet or a depth in
excess of three times its width.
      (4)   Corner lots shall have a width sufficient to permit the
establishment of front building lines on both the adjoining streets.
      (5)   Lots at major street intersections and at acute angle intersections
of less than 85 degrees shall have a radius of 20 feet at the street corner. On
business lots a chord may be substituted for the circular arc.
   (G)   Maintenance of improvements outside corporate limits. Where a
subdivision outside the corporate limits contains sewers, sewage treatment
plants, water supply systems, park areas or other physical facilities necessary
or desirable for the welfare of the area and of common use or benefit which the
township or county does not desire to or cannot maintain, provision shall be
made by trust agreements made a part of the deed restrictions acceptable to the
county, for the proper and continuous maintenance and supervision of such
facilities by the lot owners in the subdivision.
   (H)   Easements along streams. Whenever any stream or important surface
drainage course is located in an area being subdivided, the subdivider shall
provide an adequate easement along each side of the stream for the purpose of
widening, deepening, sloping, improving or protecting the stream.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-1)
§ 150.012 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended, supplemented or repealed by a majority vote of
the County Board.
(Prior Code, § 34-11-1)
§ 150.013 VALIDITY.
   (A)   If any section, division, clause or phrase of this chapter is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or void, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-12-1)
   (B)   All regulations in conflict with this chapter are hereby repealed; the
terms and conditions under which preliminary plats were approved prior to the
adoption of this chapter shall be binding and in effect, except that the rights
and privileges conferred upon the subdivider in §
150.026(C) shall be applicable.
(Prior Code, § 34-13-1)
**** JURISDICTION AND PROCEDURE ****
§ 150.025 PLAT, WHEN REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, agent or person having control of any
land not being located within any city, village or incorporated town, or within
one and one-half miles of the corporate town which has in effect a valid zoning
code of the mile and one-half limit, to subdivide, lay out, map or plat such
land and the lots, blocks, streets, alleys, avenues, parkways and grounds
unless by a map or plat made in accordance with the laws of the state, and the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-1) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.026 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   Any subdivider desiring to subdivide land shall submit to the County
Subdivision Committee, for its consideration, six copies of the preliminary
plat prepared in accordance with the specifications of §§
150.045 through
150.049; the design and layout of the subdivision shall conform to the
requirements of §§
150.011 (following consideration of the plat, the County Subdivision Committee
shall report its findings and recommendations to the County Board for its
consideration and approval or disapproval).
   (A)   Review by the Subdivision Committee. The Subdivision Committee shall
review the preliminary plat and make its report within 60 days from the date of
application or the filing of the last item of required data, whichever is
later. The Subdivision Committee shall then notify the applicant of its
approval, disapproval or approval subject to modifications as a basis for the
preparation of the final plat. If the plat is disapproved, reasons for such
disapproval will be stated in writing. If approved subject to modifications or
conditions, the nature of the modifications or conditions shall be stated.
   (B)   Filing. A copy of the letter of approval or disapproval by the
Subdivision Committee shall be attached to the preliminary plat and shall be
filed with the County Board, and one copy shall be returned to the subdivider.
Preliminary plats shall not be recorded.
   (C)   Rights and privileges. Preliminary plat approval shall confer upon the
subdivider the following rights and privileges.
      (1)   The preliminary plat approval will remain in effect for a one-year
period. The applicant may, during this period, submit all or part or parts of
said preliminary plat for final approval. In the event that the subdivision is
being developed in stages, the applicant may, by written mutual agreement with
the Subdivision Committee, have final approval of the last part of the plat
delayed for a period not to exceed ten years from the date of the preliminary
plat approval.
      (2)   The general terms and conditions under which the preliminary plat
approval was granted will not be changed for final approval.
      (3)   The applicant may also proceed with any detailed improvements plans
required for all facilities or utilities intended to be provided. Actual
construction of such facilities and improvements may commence prior to final
plat approval if the detailed improvement plans have been accepted by the
County Superintendent of Highways and the appropriate Township Highway
Commissioner, provided that such facilities and improvements will be inspected
throughout their construction, and final plat approval will be contingent in
part upon acceptable compliance with county improvements and facilities
standards. If the applicant does not submit the improvement plans prior to the
submission of the final plat, then he or she shall submit the improvement plans
to the County Superintendent of Highways at the time that the final plat is
submitted.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-2)
§ 150.027 SUBDIVISION NEAR MUNICIPALITY.
   When a subdivision is located within one and one-half miles of the corporate
limits of any municipality that has adopted and filed with the County Recorder
of Deeds an ordinance regulating said mile and one-half as provided by state
statutes, the plat shall be submitted by the applicant to the municipality for
approval; however, the subdivider shall submit a copy of the preliminary plat
as approved by the municipality to the Subdivision Committee for their review
and comment.
   (A)   The Subdivision Committee shall determine if said preliminary plat
complies with this chapter and whether the preliminary plat conflicts with the
county highway classification map. Whenever the preliminary plat does not
comply with the above, the County Superintendent of Highways shall notify the
municipality in writing of the specific instances of noncompliance, or
conflicts.
   (B)   Whenever the preliminary plat contains roads or streets that are less
than the specifications and regulations provided herein, the Superintendent of
Highways or the Township Highway Commissioner may refuse to accept any such
non-complying street or road for incorporation into or as a part of the county
or township road system.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-3)
§ 150.028 IMPROVEMENT PLAN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Improvement plans do not require Subdivision Committee action, but
shall be approved by the Township Highway Commissioner and the County
Superintendent of Highways, who shall certify to the Subdivision Committee that
the plan is in conformance with these regulations and requirements. Variance
from these requirements shall be permitted only by Subdivision Committee action
pursuant to §§
150.110 through
150.114.
   (B)   No subdivider, however, shall proceed with any construction work in
the project area before obtaining this approval.
      (1)   Submittal. To secure formal action on the improvement plans, the
developer shall file two blue line prints of the improvement plans with the
County Superintendent of Highway and the respective Township Highway
Commissioner.
      (2)   Improvement plan review. The County Superintendent of Highways and
the Township Highway Commissioner shall review, within 30 days, the proposed
improvement plans and notify the Subdivision Committee of their approval,
conditional approval or denial. Upon notification by the County Superintendent
of Highways, the Subdivision Committee shall notify the applicant of the County
Superintendent of Highway’s report stating his or her approval, conditional
approval or denial.
         (a)   APPROVAL means the applicant is now authorized to proceed with
the physical improvements in the subdivision, provided the Subdivision
Committee accepts the improvement plans.
         (b)   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL means the developer may proceed as
outlined, in division (B)(2)(a) above, but only after he or she has submitted
two copies of the corrected improvement plans with the County Superintendent of
Highways and the Township Highway Commissioner.
         (c)   DENIAL means disapproval of improvement plans. For further
consideration, the developer must rework his or her plans to conform with the
requirements, and then resubmit the reworked plans to the County Superintendent
of Highways as though they were a completely new set of plans.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-4)
§ 150.029 CHANGE IN THE PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   If the improvement plans indicate that changes must be made in the
preliminary plat then the applicant shall resubmit a new preliminary plat
before the improvement plans will be approved.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-5)
§ 150.030 FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES.
   The final plat and supporting papers shall include such information as may
be necessary concerning the form of guarantee or construction bond to be used.
   (A)   Transmittal. Six copies and one reproducible original of the final
plat shall be submitted to the Subdivision Committee. One copy of the final
plat shall also be submitted to the affected Township Highway Commissioner.
   (B)   Submittal of improvement plans. If the applicant has not previously
submitted improvement plans, then they shall be submitted along with the final
plat to the County Superintendent of Highways and the Township Highway
Commissioner affected.
   (C)   Subdivision Committee review. The Subdivision Committee shall review
the final plat and shall either approve or disapprove said plat within 45 days
from the date of filing a completed final plat application. Approval, however,
shall not be granted unless the following condition are met:
      (1)   The final plat conforms to the preliminary plat previously
approved;
      (2)   The final plat meets all requirements of the laws of the state;
      (3)   The final plat meets all requirements of the laws of the state; and
      (4)   (a)   The subdivider or applicant shall post a construction bond or
bonds or other proof of financial responsibility as set out in §§
150.090 through
150.099 with the county equal to the estimated construction cost, adjusted to
account for inflation, or all improvements that are not bonded elsewhere.
Credit will be allowed for completed improvements provided they have been
inspected and meet the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Bonds posted with other entities shall be reviewed by the county
to insure compliance with the intent of this chapter.
         (c)   Additionally, a bond or other proof of financial responsibility
as set out in §§
150.090 through
150.099 for maintenance and operation of improvements shall be required for
those improvements not bonded elsewhere.
   (D)   Subdivision Committee action.
      (1)   If the final plat is approved, the Chairperson of the Subdivision
Committee shall affix his or her signature to the plat and attach thereto a
notation that the plat has received final approval of the Subdivision
Committee.
      (2)   If the final plat is disapproved, the reasons for such action and
specific instances where said plat is not in conformance with the requirements
herein shall be noted.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-6)
§ 150.031 RECORDING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No subdivision plat or re-plat regulated by this chapter shall be
recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county unless and until
the approval of the Subdivision Committee is endorsed thereon.
   (B)   No lot shall be sold from such subdivision plat or re-plat until it
has been approved by the Subdivision Committee and filed for record in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-7)
§ 150.032 OFFICIAL FILINGS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall file the approved final plat with the County
Recorder of Deeds within 60 days after the Subdivision Committee have affixed
their signature thereto.
   (B)   One copy of the final plat shall be given to the county’s
Superintendent of Highways by the County Recorder bearing the official stamp of
the County Recorder attesting its recording within 20 days of such action.
      (1)   Fees. The review fee for the preliminary plat shall be $25 or $5
per lot, or tract of land; whichever is greater. The fee shall be collected by
the County Clerk after the last item of required information has been submitted
by the applicant.
      (2)   Final plat fee. The review fee for the final plat shall be $25 or
$5 per lot, or tract of land. The fee shall be collected by the County Clerk
after the last item or required information has been submitted by the
applicant.
      (3)   Exemption from fees. Plats containing three lots or less and not
involving new streets may be exempted from the provisions of divisions (B)(1)
and (B)(2) above upon application to the Subdivision Committee.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-8)
**** SPECIFICATIONS FOR PLATS ****
§ 150.045 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Subdivision Committee and the County Superintendent of Highways may
require the applicant to submit additional topographic information, detailed
plans for proposed uses and other information as required.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-1)
§ 150.046 PRELIMINARY PLAT MAP.
   The preliminary plat map shall be drawn in accordance with the following
specifications:
   (A)   Title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded and
location;
   (B)   North arrow and date;
   (C)   The preliminary plat should be drawn to a scale of 100 feet to one
inch. If the plat is shown on two or more sheets an index shall be provided on
each sheet;
   (D)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, professional engineer
and the registered land surveyor who prepared the preliminary plat;
   (E)   A statement to the effect that “this plat is not for record” shall be
printed or stamped upon all copies of the preliminary plat; and
   (F)   In case of resubdivision, a copy of existing plat.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-2)
§ 150.047 EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   The preliminary plat shall portray or present the following existing
conditions:
   (A)   Location of section lines, location of existing and platted property
lines, lots and lot numbers. Location of width and names of all platted roads,
railroads, utility rights-of-way, public areas, existing buildings or
structures both within the area to be subdivided and within 150 feet of the
project boundary;
   (B)   All existing easements showing locations, widths and purposes;
   (C)   Location of major watercourses, natural drainageways and ponding areas
with direction of flow and elevations;
   (D)   Existing sewers, water mains, drains, culverts or other underground
facilities within the tract or within the right-of-way of existing streets or
roadways;
   (E)   Topography should be shown by two-foot contour intervals on lands
having slopes of 0% to 4%, at five-foot intervals on slopes of 4% to 12%, and
at ten-foot intervals on slopes of 12% and above; and
   (F)   Location and results of soil percolation tests, if individual sewage
disposal systems are proposed.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-3)
§ 150.048 PROPOSED CONDITIONS.
   The preliminary plat shall portray or present the following proposed
conditions:
   (A)   Tract boundary lines, showing their lengths and directions according
to available information and reference to lines of the public land survey and
of other major land divisions;
   (B)   Layout of proposed lots, showing their approximate dimensions, numbers
and their approximate minimum area (square footage), showing an identifying
number for each lot. Lots shall be numbered consecutively throughout all phases
or additions of the subdivision;
   (C)   All proposed easements showing locations, widths and purposes;
   (D)   Street roadways and right-of-way widths, approximate gradients (use
percent), types and widths of pavement, curbs, street lights, sidewalks,
planting strips and other pertinent data; the classification of all proposed
streets as to function as established herein;
   (E)   Parcels of land, if any, proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
and
   (F)   Location, type and approximate size of utility improvement to be
installed.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-4)
§ 150.049 OTHER SUBMISSION ITEMS.
   The following information shall also be submitted with the preliminary plat
either in written or graphic form, as the case may be:
   (A)   Names and addresses of adjoining property owners; and
   (B)   Soils information indicating soil classification according to the
Unified System (and USDA textual classification, if available) for surface,
subsoil and sub-strata conditions.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-5)
**** IMPROVEMENTS ****
§ 150.060 IMPROVEMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   After the preliminary plat is approved, improvement plans prepared by
a professional engineer for the subdivision of all or any part of the tract
shall be submitted to the County Superintendent of Highways and the Township
Highway Commissioner.
   (B)   The following information shall be shown on the improvement plans or
submitted with the plans:
      (1)   Two copies of the approved preliminary plat and supportive
information;
      (2)   North arrow and graphic scale;
      (3)   Title block showing name and address of developer and engineering
firm, as well as the engineer’s seal;
      (4)   One or more bench marks, in or near the subdivision, to which the
subdivision is referenced. The elevation shall be based on the sea level datum;
      (5)   List of the standards and specifications followed, citing volume,
section, page or other references;
      (6)   All dimensions shall be to the nearest one-one hundredth of a foot
and angles to the nearest minute, as appropriate;
      (7)   Grading plans showing finished grades. The contour interval shall
conform to the requirements stated in §
150.047(E);
      (8)   Soil information and a soils map, when required by this chapter
(see §
150.061(B) and (C));
      (9)   Percolation test data and locations of test holes if no public
sewer system is available or proposed (see §
150.061(C));
      (10)   Ground water information and locations of test wells, when
required by this chapter (see §
150.061(C)); and
      (11)   Plans, profiles and cross sections of streets showing right-of-way
and surface widths, elevations, paving details, grades, names, curb and gutter,
catch basins, sidewalks and any other improvement to be constructed or placed
within the street right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 34-6-1)
§ 150.061 MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Streets, curbs and gutter, and sidewalks.
      (1)   All streets and public ways shall be graded to their full width (as
specified in §
150.011) including side slopes, and to the appropriate grade and shall be
surfaced according to county specifications with one of the following
alternates:
         (a)   Seven and one-half inches of compacted crushed stone or gravel
with an A-3 seal;
         (b)   Six inches of compacted gravel or crushed stone base course with
two inches of hot plant mix bituminous surface; or
         (c)   Six inches of Portland cement concrete pavement without mesh.
      (2)   Curbs, gutters or combination curb and gutters may be constructed
along the outside pavement line in accordance with Illinois Department of
Transportation specifications.
      (3)   Where lots are 20,000 square feet or more in area, and with the
approval of the County Superintendent of Highways and the Township Highway
Commissioner a 24-foot wide surface may be installed without curb or gutter,
provided that three-foot wide shoulders and adequate drainage facilities are
provided.
(Prior Code, § 34-6-5)
   (B)   Sanitary sewers. In subdivisions in which the lots are less than
20,000 square feet and where plans for the installation of sanitary sewers in
the vicinity of the subdivision have been prepared by a municipality, the
subdivider may be required to install sewers in conformity with such plans. In
such cases, until a connection can be made with the public sewer system, the
use of an alternate central treatment facility will be permitted, provided such
facilities are approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency and in
accordance with county and state regulations pertaining to sanitary disposal.
In subdivisions where the lots are 20,000 square feet or more and have a
minimum width of 100 feet, the subdivider may install individual disposal
devices for each lot at the time improvements are erected thereon. All such
individual sewage disposal systems shall be constructed in accordance with
regulations and requirements of the State Public Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 34-6-6)
   (C)   Percolation tests. Percolation tests may be required to be conducted
in the presence of a designated County Health Official and shall be required in
all areas where septic tanks or other soil absorption systems are proposed.
Where grading is to be done, such tests shall be made in the soil after
finished grade has been constructed. At least two separate percolation tests
shall be performed at the site of each proposed disposal area. More than two
percolation tests will be required when the soil structure may vary or where
large disposal areas are required. Preliminary tests for subdividing large
tracts shall be made in the amount of one test hole per acre or as prescribed
by the County Health Department. Percolation tests shall not be made in frozen
ground. Tests shall not be made in filled ground unless the soil has been
compacted or allowed to settle to the satisfaction of the County Health
Official.
(Prior Code, § 34-6-7)
   (D)   Drainage.
      (1)   The plat shall be laid out so as to provide proper drainage of the
area being subdivided including facilities such as curb and gutter, catch
basins, culverts, bridges and natural drainageways.
      (2)   The design of the storm drainage system shall be based on a 25-year
flood frequency and the system designed according to accepted engineering
practices, county specifications and the following general standards.
         (a)   Absolute minimum street grade shall be 0.3%. When possible, the
county shall encourage a minimum street grade of 0.5%, and a maximum grade of
7%.
         (b)   No transport of runoff across a street by use of swale shall be
permitted.
         (c)   Runoff shall be transported from yards to the major system by
swales.
(Prior Code, § 34-6-8)
**** FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 150.075 GENERALLY.
   The final plat to be provided by the subdivider shall meet the following
specifications.
   (A)   The final plat may include all or only a part of the project area
portrayed on the preliminary plat which has received approval.
   (B)   The final plat shall be drawn on new linen tracing cloth, or other
material of comparable stability with black ink and should be to a scale of 100
feet to one inch, where practical, provided that the resulting drawing does not
exceed 22 inches by 36 inches.
      (1)   Two or more sheets may be used provided that an index drawing is
provided on each sheet.
      (2)   Six black or blue line prints shall be provided by the subdivider
along with the original tracing cloth.
      (3)   One copy of the final plat shall also be submitted to the effected
Township Highway Commissioner.
   (C)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot, to the
nearest one-one hundredth of a foot.
(Prior Code, § 34-7-1)
§ 150.076 FINAL PLAT DATA.
   The final plat map shall portray or present the following:
   (A)   Title or name of subdivision; identification of the portion of the
public lands survey in which the subdivision is located; and north arrow,
graphic scale and date shown;
   (B)   Reference to recorded subdivision plats within 300 feet of adjoining
platted land by record name, plat book and page number. Accurate locations,
width and name of all existing streets intersecting the boundaries of the
subdivision shall be shown;
   (C)   The boundary lines of the area being subdivided with accurate
distances and angles. The correct legal description and area in acres or square
feet of the property being subdivided shall be shown on the plat, and on an
accompanying certificate. Where discrepancies occur, existing descriptions and
surveyed descriptions should be included;
   (D)   The location and description of all survey monuments;
   (E)   Monuments shall be placed as required by 765 ILCS 205 (Plat Act);
   (F)   Right-of-way line of streets, easements and other rights-of-way and
lot lines with accurate dimensions, angles or bearings and curve data,
including radii, arcs or chords, points of tangency and central angles;
   (G)   Existing and proposed streets and alleys, street names, right-of-way
width and other pertinent data;
   (H)   Location and dimensions of any formerly existing or newly created
easements and statement of purpose for each easement;
   (I)   Lot dimensions, numbers of each lot and buildings or setback lines and
dimensions. A separate list indicating the area of each lot shall be provided;
and
   (J)   Purpose of which sites, other than private lots, are dedicated or
reserved.
(Prior Code, § 34-7-2)
§ 150.077 OTHER SUPPORTIVE DATA.
   The following supportive data, shall be required in final form for final
plat approval:
   (A)   Percolation test results, if septic tanks or other soil absorption
systems are proposed;
   (B)   Acknowledgment of the owner or owners of the plat, and restrictions
including dedication to public use of all streets, alleys, parks or other open
spaces shown thereon and the granting of easement required; and
   (C)   Private restrictions and trusteeships and their periods of existence.
Should these restrictions or trusteeships be of such length as to make their
lettering on the plat impracticable and thus necessitate the preparation of
separate instrument, reference to such instrument shall be made on the plat.
(Prior Code, § 34-7-3)
§ 150.078 FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATES.
   The following certificates shall be executed on the final plat: owner’s
certificate, notary certificate, surveyor’s certificate, county clerk
certificate, City Council certificate, Subdivision Committee certificate,
drainage certificate and any other certification requested by the Subdivision
Committee. Shown is the minimum requirements of each certificate.
   (A)   An owner’s certificate in the following form is the minimum
requirement of each certificate.
OWNER’S CERTIFICATE
We, _____________________, being the Owners of ____________
(description)______________, have caused the said tract to be surveyed and
subdivided in the manner shown, and subdivision is to be hereinafter known as
____________________. All rights-of-way and easements shown hereon are hereby
dedicated to the use of the public forever including the release and waiver of
the right of homestead under the Homestead Exemption laws of the State of
Illinois.
Dated this _________ day of _________________, 20____.
_____________________ (Seal)
_____________________ (Seal)
   (B)   A notary certificate in the following form:
NOTARY CERTIFICATE
State of Illinois      )
               ) SS
County of Effingham   )
I, _____________________, a Notary Public in and for the County aforesaid, do
hereby certify that _(owners)___are personally known to me to be the same
persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument, and that they
appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed and
sealed the same as their free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes
therein set forth, including the release of waiver of the right of homestead.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this ________ day of ___________________,
20____.
______________________________________
Notary Public
   (C)   A surveyor’s certificate in the following form:
SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE
I, ___________________, an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor, do hereby certify
that this plat is a correct representation of a survey made under my direct
supervision at the request of _______ for the purpose of subdividing the tract
into lots as shown.
_____________________         _____________________
Date                  Illinois Land Surveyor
____________________
Registration Number
   (D)   A County Clerk’s certificate in the following form:
COUNTY CLERK’S CERTIFICATE
I, __________________, County Clerk of Effingham County, Illinois, do hereby
certify that I find no unpaid or forfeited taxes against any of the real estate
included within this plat.
_____________________
County Clerk
_____________________
Date
   (E)   When necessary, a City Council certificate in the following form:
CITY COUNCIL CERTIFICATE
Approved this __________ day of _____________, 20___ City Council of the City
of _________
By _____________________
Chief Elected Official
Attest _____________________
      City Clerk
   (F)   A Subdivision Committee certificate in the following form:
EFFINGHAM COUNTY SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE CERTIFICATE
Approved this _______ day of __________, 20___. We, the Subdivision Committee
of the Effingham County Board, do hereby certify that this final plat meets all
requirements of the Effingham County Subdivision Regulations and the subdivider
has completed all improvements or has posted a construction and maintenance
bond with the County prior to our approval.
_____________________
Chairperson
_____________________
Date
_____________________
Date Bond(s) Posted
(Prior Code, § 34-7-4)
**** BONDING ****
§ 150.090 CONSTRUCTION BOND OR ESCROW AGREEMENT.
   Final plats shall be neither approved by the Subdivision Committee nor
recorded by the County Recorder unless the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The capital improvements or facilities intended to be dedicated to the
county, township, other public body or acceptable private entity have been
completed, inspected and accepted prior to final plat approval; or
   (B)   A construction bond has been posted or an escrow agreement has been
entered into in accordance with the provisions hereafter set forth. The bond or
escrow agreement shall be prepared and executed on forms furnished by the
State’s Attorney and shall be submitted to the Subdivision Committee for
approval or disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 34-8-1)
§ 150.091 CONSTRUCTION BOND.
   A construction bond shall insure or guarantee, to the extent of the amount
specified by a professional engineer in his or her estimate of the cost
thereof, the construction and completion of the improvements shown by the
approved preliminary plat and such inspection fees as may be required.
(Prior Code, § 34-8-2)
§ 150.092 ESCROW AGREEMENTS.
   An escrow agreement shall provide that there shall be deposited with the
County Clerk and held by him or her in a special escrow account the amount of
money specified by a professional engineer in his or her estimate of the cost
thereof, the construction and completion of the improvements shown by the
approved preliminary plat and such inspection fees as may be required. The
specified amount may be in the form of:
   (A)   Cash;
   (B)   An irrevocable letter of credit or commitment from a leading
institution to the county guaranteeing to the county the availability, from
time to time upon demand; or
   (C)   Certificates of deposit, treasury bills or other readily negotiable
instruments, the type of which has been approved by the State’s Attorney,
endorsed to the county.
(Prior Code, § 34-8-3)
§ 150.093 RELEASE.
   The bond shall remain in effect or the escrowed sum shall be held in the
escrow account by the County Clerk until such time as the County Superintendent
of Highways and the Township Highway Commissioner shall, by written
authorization to the County Clerk release the surety from the obligation of the
bond or the County Clerk from his or her obligation to retain the escrowed sum
in the escrow account, which release may be partial and may occur from time to
time, as improvements are completed and approved.
(Prior Code, § 34-8-4)
§ 150.094 FORFEIT.
   The term of the construction bond or the escrow agreement shall not exceed
two years in duration subject to the following:
   (A)   If at the end of the two-year period, all the improvements reflected
by the approved preliminary plat and the improvement plans have not been
completed, the Subdivision Committee may extend the terms of the bond or the
escrow agreement for a period not to exceed one additional year at each
extension, if after review such longer period is necessary to facilitate
adequate and coordinated provisions for transportation, water, sewerage,
schools, parks, playgrounds or other public requirements. If said improvements
have not been completed at the end of two years or as extended, the Subdivision
Committee may:
      (1)   Require the surety to perform on the bond and pay to the county or
township such amount as shall be equal to the lesser of the amount required to
complete the improvements or the amount of the bond not therefore released;
      (2)   Require the escrow agent to remit to the county or township in cash
or negotiable instruments constituting the escrow, sum, as the case may be, the
balance in the escrow account required to complete the improvements and the
balance, if any, in the escrow account which exceeds such amount shall be
returned to the developer; or
      (3)   Require the developer to submit a new construction bond or escrow
agreement which has been recalculated in order to allow for any inflation in
the case of constructing improvements.
   (B)   If the surety fails to perform on the bond within 30 days after
written request, the Subdivision Committee shall direct the State’s Attorney to
take immediate action to require performance by the surety under the bond to
secure the amount required.
(Prior Code, § 34-8-5)
§ 150.095 ELIGIBLE SURETIES.
   To be eligible all sureties shall be approved by the County Clerk and
State’s Attorney. All sureties shall be subject to spot audits by the county
under the supervision of the County Clerk. If the surety fails to comply with
any of the provisions of the construction bond, the surety shall not thereafter
be allowed to act as surety for any subdivision improvement within the
jurisdiction of the county for a period of two years.
(Prior Code, § 34-8-6)
§ 150.096 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENT.
   The applicant’s professional engineer shall inspect all improvements both
during the course of construction, and after completion to ensure that all
improvements are constructed in a workmanlike manner and conform to the
approved improvement plans. Upon completion of all inspections, said engineer
shall certify, by letter, to the County Superintendent of Highways, Township
Highway Commissioner and the Subdivision Committee that all improvements have
been completed in a workmanlike manner and conform to the approved improvement
plans. Said letter must be signed, bear the engineer’s seal, and note his or
her registration number.
(Prior Code, § 34-8-7)
§ 150.097 MAINTENANCE BOND.
   (A)   The subdivider shall further post with the county a corporate surety
bond issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state or
other proof of financial responsibility as set forth in §
150.030, in amount determined by a professional engineer.
   (B)   Said bond shall commence immediately upon approved completion of the
agreed upon terms contained within the construction bonds, as described in §§
150.090 through
150.094. Said bond will guarantee the county that said street and utilities
have been installed in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with required
specifications and standards; that same is free from defects caused by faulty
material or defective workmanship and free from sinkholes or other settling,
and that said streets and utilities will remain in acceptable condition based
on an inspection by the County Superintendent of Highways and the applicable
Township Highway Commissioner for a period of at least two years. Said
guarantee bond shall be effective for a period of two years.
   (C)   If any time during the two-year period the streets or utilities are
found to have settled or be otherwise unacceptable, said defective street or
utilities shall be repaired as designated by the County Superintendent of
Highways and the applicable Township Highway Commissioner at the cost of the
subdivider, and upon his or her failure or refusal to do so within 90 days
after demand is made upon by the county, then the county or township shall use
said bond to make such repairs as are reasonably necessary, and if the cost of
the repairs exceed the amount of the bond, the subdivider shall be liable for
said excess and the county or township may take such steps as necessary to
recover the additional costs from the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 34-8-8)
§ 150.098 ACCEPTANCE.
   If after the two-year guarantee period, the inspection of said streets and
utilities finds them in satisfactory condition, the Township Highway
Commissioner shall accept the streets as public property and take over their
perpetual maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 34-8-9)
§ 150.099 PROVISIONS FOR MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION OF PRIVATE UTILITIES OR
FACILITIES.
   When a subdivision contains street lights, sewers, sewage treatment plants,
water supply system, park area or other physical facilities that have not been
dedicated to and accepted by an existing public agency, adequate provision
shall be made for the continuous maintenance, supervision, operation and
reconstruction of such facilities by the lot owners in the subdivision, subject
to the regulation of the Department of Public Health and the Commerce
Commission of the state and the State Environmental Protection Agency, where
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 34-8-10)
**** VARIANCES ****
§ 150.110 CONDITIONS OF VARIATION.
   The Subdivision Committee may grant a variance from the provisions of this
chapter; provided, in each case, the following conditions are met:
   (A)   Any variance or exception shall comply with the intent and purpose
declared in §
150.004;
   (B)   Special conditions and circumstances are present which are peculiar to
the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures or buildings in the same area;
   (C)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would deprive
the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same area
under the terms of this chapter;
   (D)   The special conditions or circumstances do not result from the actions
of the applicant;
   (E)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any
special privilege that is denied by this chapter to owners of other lands,
structures, buildings in the same area; and
   (F)   The variance requested is the minimum variance which would alleviate
the hardship.
(Prior Code, § 34-9-1)
§ 150.111 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   The subdivider shall apply in writing, for such a variance or exception and
shall state the exact reasons for the variances request. The variance request
shall then be forwarded with the preliminary plat to the Subdivision Committee.
(Prior Code, § 34-9-2)
§ 150.110 SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE ACTION.
   The Subdivision Committee after reviewing the variance request and the
preliminary plat and any other supportive data may approve, disapprove or
approve subject to modifications or conditions, the application.
   (A)   If the Subdivision Committee approves the application, it may attach
any necessary conditions such as time limitations, requirements that one or
more things be done before the request can be initiated, or conditions of a
continuing nature to ensure that there shall be no departure from the intent of
this chapter. The Subdivision Committee shall especially consider the effect of
the request on surrounding uses in determining whether an application shall be
approved, modified or disapproved. If the application and accompanying material
is approved, the Subdivision Committee shall express its approval and state the
conditions of such approval, if any.
   (B)   If an application is disapproved, reasons for such disapproval shall
be stated in writing in the records of the Subdivision Committee and a
statement in writing of such grounds of disapproval shall be furnished to the
applicant or his or her agent.
   (C)   If approved subject to modifications or conditions, the nature of the
required modifications or conditions shall also be indicated in writing in the
records of the Subdivision Committee and furnished to the applicant or his or
her agent.
(Prior Code, § 34-9-3)
§ 150.113 FILING.
   (A)   If an application is approved based on a preliminary plat, the
Subdivision Committee shall express its approval as conditional approval, and
require the submission of a final plat for final approval. No approval shall,
however, be entered on the preliminary plat.
   (B)   One copy of the preliminary plat shall be returned to the applicant
and one copy shall be retained by the Subdivision Committee. Approval of a
preliminary plat shall not constitute acceptance of the final plat and approval
of the preliminary plat shall lapse unless a final plat based thereon is
submitted within one year from the date of such approval.
   (C)   An extension of time may be applied for by the developer and granted
by the Subdivision Committee.
(Prior Code, § 34-9-4)
§ 150.114 JUDICIAL REMEDY BY A LOCAL COURT OF RECORD.
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of
the Subdivision Committee or any officer, bureau, department or agency of the
governing body, may apply to the local court of record for judicial relief
within 30 days after rendition of the decision.
(Prior Code, § 34-9-5)
**** VACATION OF PLATS ****
§ 150.125 PLAT VACATION.
   Any plat may be vacated by the owner of the premises at any time before the
sale of any lot therein, by a written instrument to which a copy of the plat is
attached, declaring it to be vacated. If there are public service facilities in
the highways, streets, alleys and other public ways and in easements shown on
said plat, the instrument shall reserve to the public body or public utility
owning such facilities, the property, rights-of-way and easements necessary for
continuing public service by means of those facilities for the maintenance,
renewal and reconstruction of the same.
(Prior Code, § 34-10-1)
§ 150.126 SUBMITTAL DOCUMENTS.
   The written vacation instrument shall be accompanied by the following plats
and plans:
   (A)   Five copies of the plat of subdivision, on which there shall be shown
the part thereof, or street, alley, easement or part thereof, to be vacated;
   (B)   A certificate signed by the County Clerk, certifying that there are no
delinquent general taxes, no unpaid current general taxes, no unpaid forfeited
taxes, and no redeemable tax sales against any of the land included in the
property to be vacated; and
   (C)   When lots have been sold, the written vacation instrument shall be
signed by all the owners of lots in the plat.
(Prior Code, § 34-10-2)
§ 150.127 APPROVALS REQUIRED.
   The vacation request must be approved by the following persons or agencies:
   (A)   Subdivision Committee of the County Board;
   (B)   Township Highway Commissioner having jurisdiction;
   (C)   County Superintendent of Highways; and
   (D)   Public utility(s) involved.
(Prior Code, § 34-10-3)
§ 150.128 SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE REVIEW.
   The Subdivision Committee shall determine or require the following:
   (A)   If any public right-of-way or a bridge are destroyed by the proposed
vacation;
   (B)   The Subdivision Committee may require the petitioners to furnish bond
in an amount to be determined by the State’s Attorney, indemnifying the county
for any suit which may be filed for damages sustained by private party(s) due
to such vacation; and
   (C)   The Subdivision Committee may require that the county be reimbursed by
the owner(s) of property abutting upon a street, alley, easement or part
thereof, to be vacated in an amount which shall be equal to the loss sustained
by the county by reason of the vacation.
(Prior Code, § 34-10-4)
§ 150.129 VACATION RECORDING.
   When any plat or part thereof is vacated the recorder in whose office the
plat is recorded or filed as aforesaid shall, upon the recording of such
vacation, write in plain letters across the plat or part so vacated the word
“vacated”, and shall also make a reference on the same to the volume and page
in which instrument of vacation is recorded.
(Prior Code, § 34-10-5)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who constructs any public improvement
or portion thereof in violation of the provision of this chapter shall upon
conviction, be fined not more than $500 for each offense, and each day of the
continued violation shall constitute a separate additional offense.
(Prior Code, § 34-14-1)
   (B)   Any person who shall sell or offer for sale, lease or offer for lease,
while this chapter is in effect, any lot or lots or block or blocks, within the
area of jurisdiction of the county, or any re-subdivision of any block or lot
therein, before all of the requirements of this chapter have been completed
with, shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500 for each lot, block
or part thereof sold, offered for sale, leased or offered for lease.
(Prior Code, § 34-14-2)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section             Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29           10.02
5 ILCS 70/2              10.04
5 ILCS 120               32.008,
                         32.070
5 ILCS 140               34.098
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.     33.74
5 ILCS 140/1.1 et seq.   34.095
5 ILCS 140/7             34.104
5 ILCS 140/11            34.105
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq. 10.02
5 ILCS 275/7 et seq.     31.36
5 ILCS 315/3             33.40
5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq. 33.17
10 ILCS 5/1-3            10.02,
                         33.40
10 ILCS 5/9-1 et seq.    33.17
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4          33.40
10 ILCS 5/9-3            33.40
10 ILCS 115/1            36.155
                         31.30 -
                         31.33,
20 ILCS 3305             31.39,
                         31.41,
                         31.45,
                         31.46
20 ILCS 3305/4           31.33,
                         31.38
20 ILCS 3305/6(c)(5)     31.33
20 ILCS 3305/10          31.39
20 ILCS 3305/10(g)       31.33
25 ILCS 170/1 et seq.    33.15
30 ILCS 235 et seq.      34.063
30 ILCS 235/2            34.055
35 ILCS 105              36.101,
                         36.156
35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.    36.100
35 ILCS 120              36.101
35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.    36.181,
                         36.183
35 ILCS 145/2            36.180
35 ILCS 145/5            36.187
35 ILCS 200/21-310       36.046
35 ILCS 515/1 et seq.    36.167
35 ILCS 515/4            36.157
35 ILCS 515/5            36.158
35 ILCS 515/7            36.160
35 ILCS 515/9            36.163
40 ILCS 5/7-145.1        34.006
40 ILCS 5/7-145.2        34.006
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.     36.072
50 ILCS 750/0.01 et seq. 35.002
50 ILCS 750/15.3         35.010,
                         36.143
50 ILCS 750/15.4         35.004,
                         35.005
50 ILCS 750/15.4(a)      35.003
50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.    115.02,
                         115.03
50 ILCS 835/0.01         35.070
50 ILCS 835/1            35.075,
                         35.078
50 ILCS 835/3            35.071
50 ILCS 835/4            35.072
50 ILCS 835/4.1          35.073
50 ILCS 835/5            35.074
50 ILCS 835/6            35.075
50 ILCS 835/7            35.076
50 ILCS 835/8            35.077
50 ILCS 835/9            35.078
50 ILCS 835/10           35.079
50 ILCS 835/11           35.080
50 ILCS 835/12           35.081
                         32.053,
                         32.054,
55 ILCS 5/1-1001         36.100,
                         36.101,
                         36.102
55 ILCS 5/2-1001         32.054
55 ILCS 5/2-1002         32.054
55 ILCS 5/2-1003         32.030
55 ILCS 5/2-1005         32.056
55 ILCS 5/2-1006         32.055
                         32.032,
55 ILCS 5/2-3009         32.051,
                         32.052
55 ILCS 5/3-5018         36.054,
                         36.055
55 ILCS 5/3-10009        36.046
55 ILCS 5/4-4001         36.044
55 ILCS 5/4-5001         36.049
55 ILCS 5/5-1006.5(a)    36.103,
                         36.104
55 ILCS 5/5-1006.5(b)    36.103
55 ILCS 5/5-1022         34.002
55 ILCS 5/5-1030         36.187
55 ILCS 5/5-1031         36.116
55 ILCS 5/5-1078.2       130.99
55 ILCS 5/5-25001        35.059
55 ILCS 5/5-25010        35.055
55 ILCS 5/5-25012        35.052,
                         35.058
55 ILCS 5/5-25013        35.053
55 ILCS 5/5-39001        36.050
65 ILCS 5                10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2          10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2(5)       10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1          10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1        10.99
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2         36.138
105 ILCS 5/26-2a         130.02
210 ILCS 45              93.06
210 ILCS 115/1           36.157
210 ILCS 115/12          36.157
225 ILCS 225             51.02,
                         51.04
225 ILCS 225/8(3)        51.05
225 ILCS 225/19          51.99
225 ILCS 227             92.09
225 ILCS 345/1           50.11
225 ILCS 454/1 et seq.   91.04
230 ILCS 15/1            111.03
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.   110.01
235 ILCS 5/4-2           110.17
235 ILCS 5/4-4           110.17
235 ILCS 5/7-5           110.17,
                         110.18
235 ILCS 5/7-9           110.18
320 ILCS 25/3.14         36.161
405 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.  110.05
405 ILCS 5/26-2a         130.02
405 ILCS 20              35.038
405 ILCS 20 et seq.      35.025
405 ILCS 20/3a           35.026
405 ILCS 20/3b           35.027
405 ILCS 20/3c           35.028
405 ILCS 20/3d           35.029
405 ILCS 20/3f           35.037
410 ILCS 66              35.034
410 ILCS 80/1 et seq.    34.010
                         93.01,
                         115.02,
410 ILCS 82              115.15,
                         115.19,
                         115.20
410 ILCS 82/70           34.010
410 ILCS 625             115.02
415 ILCS 5/22.2(f)       34.012
415 ILCS 10              52.01
415 ILCS 20              52.01
425 ILCS 35              92.01
425 ILCS 35/0.01 et seq. 92.01
510 ILCS 5               90.05
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.     90.06
510 ILCS 55/1 et seq.    90.06
625 ILCS 5               36.161
625 ILCS 5/1-188         10.02
625 ILCS 5/7-703         36.004
625 ILCS 5/11-501        36.040,
                         92.15
705 ILCS 105/27.1b       36.001
705 ILCS 135             36.015
705 ILCS 135/15 et seq.  36.015
705 ILCS 405/3-33.5(a-3) 130.02
720 ILCS 550/10          36.041
720 ILCS 570/410         36.041
730 ILCS 5/5-6-3(g)      36.043
730 ILCS 5/5-6-3.1(g)    36.043
730 ILCS 125/17          36.056
765 ILCS 205             150.076
810 ILCS 5/9-101         36.162
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.   31.33,
                         31.39
820 ILCS 310/1 et seq.   31.33,
                         31.39
                         
 
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Reference 2016 Code Section
Prior Code Reference 2016 Code Section
1-1-16               10.02
1-2-1                32.030
1-2-2                32.031
1-2-3                32.032
1-2-4                32.033
1-2-5                32.034
1-2-6                32.035
1-2-7                32.036
1-3-1                32.050
1-3-2                32.051
1-3-3                32.052
1-3-4                32.053
1-3-5                32.054
1-3-6                32.055
1-3-7                32.056
1-4-1                32.070
1-5-1                32.085
1-5-2                32.086
1-5-3                32.087
1-5-4                32.088
1-5-5                32.089
1-5-6                32.090
1-5-7                32.091
1-5-8                32.092
1-5-9                32.093
1-8-1                34.050
1-8-2                34.051
1-8-3                34.052
1-8-4                34.053
1-8-5                34.054
1-8-6                34.055
1-8-7                34.056
1-8-8                34.057
1-8-9                34.058
1-8-10               34.059
1-8-11               34.060
1-8-12               34.061
1-8-13               34.062
1-8-14               34.063
1-9-1                34.002
1-9-2                34.003
1-9-3                34.004
1-9-4                34.005
1-9-5                34.006
1-9-6                34.007
1-9-7                34.008
1-9-8                34.009
1-9-9                34.010
1-9-10               34.011
1-10-1               33.55
1-10-2               33.56
1-10-3               33.57
1-10-4               33.58
1-10-5               33.59
4-1-1                35.001
4-1-2                35.002
4-1-3                35.003
4-1-4                35.004
4-1-5                35.005
4-1-6                35.006
4-1-7                35.007
4-1-8                35.008
4-1-9                35.009
4-1-10               35.010
4-2-1                35.025
4-2-2                35.026
4-2-3                35.027
4-2-4                35.028
4-2-5                35.029
4-2-6                35.030
4-2-7                35.031
4-2-8                35.032
4-2-9                35.033
4-2-10               35.034
4-2-11               35.035
4-2-12               35.036
4-2-13               35.037
4-2-14               35.038
4-3-1                35.050
4-3-2                35.051
4-3-3                35.052
4-3-4                35.053
4-3-5                35.054
4-3-6                35.055
4-3-7                35.056
4-3-8                35.057
4-3-9                35.058
4-3-10               35.059
4-4-1                35.070
4-4-2                35.071
4-4-3                35.072
4-4-4                35.073
4-4-5                35.074
4-4-6                35.075
4-4-7                35.076
4-4-8                35.077
4-4-9                35.078
4-4-10               35.079
4-4-11               35.080
4-4-12               35.081
8-1-1                112.01
8-1-2                112.02
8-1-3                112.03
8-1-4                112.04
8-1-5                112.05
8-1-6                112.06
8-1-7                112.07
8-1-8                112.08
8-1-9                112.09
8-1-10               112.10
8-1-11               112.11
8-1-12               112.12
8-1-14               112.99
8-2-1                111.01
8-2-2                111.02
8-2-3                111.03
8-2-4                111.04
8-2-5                111.05
8-2-6                111.06
8-2-7                111.07
8-2-8                111.08
8-2-9                111.09
8-2-10               111.10
8-2-11               111.11
8-3-1                113.01
8-3-2                113.02
8-3-3                113.03
8-3-4                113.04
8-3-5                113.05
8-3-6                113.06
8-3-7                113.07
8-3-8                113.08
8-3-9                113.09
8-3-10               113.10
8-3-11               113.11
8-3-12               113.12
8-3-13               113.13
8-3-14               113.14
8-3-15               113.15
8-3-16               113.16
8-3-17               113.17
8-3-18               113.18
8-4-1                114.01
8-4-2                114.02
8-4-10               114.03
8-4-11               114.03
8-4-12               114.03
8-4-13               114.03
8-4-14               114.03
8-4-15               114.03
8-4-16               114.03
8-4-17               114.03
8-4-18               114.03
8-4-19               114.03
8-4-20               114.03
8-4-21               114.03
8-4-22               114.03
8-4-23               114.03
8-4-24               114.03
8-4-25               114.03
8-4-26               114.03
8-4-27               114.03
8-4-28               114.03
8-4-29               114.03
8-4-30               114.03
8-4-36               114.04
8-4-41               114.15
8-4-42               114.15
8-4-43               114.15
8-4-44               114.15
8-4-45               114.15
8-4-46               114.15
8-4-47               114.15
8-4-51               114.16
8-4-52               114.16
8-4-53               114.16
8-4-54               114.16
8-4-55               114.16
8-4-56               114.16
8-4-60               114.17
8-4-61               114.17
8-4-62               114.17
8-4-66               114.18
8-4-67               114.99
8-4-70               114.19
8-4-71               114.19
8-4-73               114.20
8-4-75               114.21
8-4-76               114.21
8-4-77               114.21
8-4-78               114.21
8-4-79               114.22
8-4-80               114.22,
                     114.99
8-4-81               114.22,
                     114.99
8-4-82               114.22,
                     114.99
8-4-83               114.22,
                     114.99
8-4-84               114.22,
                     114.99
8-4-85               114.22,
                     114.99
8-4-86               114.22
8-4-87               114.22
8-4-88               114.22,
                     114.99
9-1-1                30.20
9-1-2                30.21
9-1-3                30.22
9-1-4                30.23
9-1-5                30.24
9-1-6                30.99
Chapter 11           33.03
12-1-1               34.075
12-1-2               34.076
12-1-3               34.077
12-1-4               34.078
12-1-5               34.079
12-1-6               34.080
12-1-7               34.081
12-1-8               34.082
13-1-1               91.01
13-1-2               91.02
13-1-3               91.03
13-1-4               91.04
13-1-5               91.05
13-1-6               91.06
13-1-7               91.07
13-1-8               91.08
13-1-9               91.09
13-1-10              91.10
13-1-11              91.11
13-1-12              91.12
13-1-13              91.13
13-1-14              91.14
13-1-15              91.15
13-1-16              91.16
13-1-17              91.17
13-1-18              91.18
13-1-19              91.19
13-1-20              91.20
13-1-21              91.21
13-1-22              91.22
13-1-23              91.23
13-1-24              91.24
13-1-25              91.25
13-1-26              91.99
15-1-1               34.095
15-1-2               34.096
15-1-3               34.097
15-1-4               34.098
15-1-5               34.099
15-1-6               34.100
15-1-7               34.101
15-1-8               34.102
15-1-9               34.103
15-1-10              34.104
15-1-11              34.105
15-1-12              34.106
15-1-13              34.107
15-1-14              34.108
15-1-15              34.109
30-2-1               31.01
30-2-2               31.02
30-2-3               31.03
30-2-4               31.04
30-2-5               31.05
30-2-6               31.06
30-2-7               31.07
30-2-8               31.08
30-2-9               31.09
30-2-10              31.10
30-2-11              31.11
30-2-12              31.12
30-2-13              31.13
30-2-14              31.14
30-2-15              31.15
30-2-16              31.16
30-2-17              31.17
30-2-18              31.18
30-2-19              31.19
31-1-1               52.20
31-1-2               52.21
31-1-3               52.22
31-1-4               52.23
31-1-5               52.24
31-1-6               52.99
31-1-7               52.25
34-1-1               150.001
34-1-2               150.002
34-1-3               150.003
34-1-4               150.004
34-1-5               150.005
34-1-6               150.006
34-1-7               150.007
34-1-8               150.008
34-1-9               150.009
34-2-1               150.010
34-3-1               150.025
34-3-2               150.026
34-3-3               150.027
34-3-4               150.028
34-3-5               150.029
34-3-6               150.030
34-3-7               150.031
34-3-8               150.032
34-4-1               150.011
34-5-1               150.045
34-5-2               150.046
34-5-3               150.047
34-5-4               150.048
34-5-5               150.049
34-6-1               150.060
34-6-5               150.061
34-6-6               150.061
34-6-7               150.061
34-6-8               150.061
34-7-1               150.075
34-7-2               150.076
34-7-3               150.077
34-7-4               150.078
34-8-1               150.090
34-8-2               150.091
34-8-3               150.092
34-8-4               150.093
34-8-5               150.094
34-8-6               150.095
34-8-7               150.096
34-8-8               150.097
34-8-9               150.098
34-8-10              150.099
34-9-1               150.110
34-9-2               150.111
34-9-3               150.110
34-9-4               150.113
34-9-5               150.114
34-10-1              150.125
34-10-2              150.126
34-10-3              150.127
34-10-4              150.128
34-10-5              150.129
34-11-1              150.012
34-12-1              150.013
34-13-1              150.013
34-14-1              150.999
34-14-2              150.999
36-1-1               36.070
36-1-2               36.071
36-1-3               36.072
36-1-4               36.073
36-1-5               36.074
36-1-6               36.075
36-1-7               36.076
36-1-8               36.077
36-1-9               36.078
36-1-10              36.079
36-1-11              36.080
36-1-12              36.081
36-1-13              36.082
36-1-14              36.083
36-1-15              36.084
36-1-16              36.085
36-1-17              36.086
36-1-18              36.087
36-2-1               36.100
36-2-2               36.100
36-2-4               36.101
36-2-5               36.101
36-2-7               36.102
36-2-8               36.102
36-2-11              36.103
36-3-1               36.115
36-3-2               36.116
36-3-3               36.117
36-3-4               36.118
36-3-5               36.119
36-3-6               36.120
36-3-9               36.051
36-3-10              36.052
36-3-11              36.053
36-3-12              36.054
36-3-13              36.055
36-3-14              36.055
36-3-16              36.056
36-3-17              36.056
36-3-18              36.056
36-4-1               36.135
36-4-2               36.136
36-4-3               36.137
36-4-4               36.138
36-4-5               36.139
36-4-6               36.140
36-4-7               36.141
36-4-8               36.142
36-4-9               36.143
36-5-1               36.155
36-5-2               36.156
36-5-3               36.157
36-5-4               36.158
36-5-5               36.159
36-5-6               36.160
36-5-7               36.161
36-5-8               36.162
36-5-9               36.163
36-5-10              36.164
36-5-11              36.165
36-5-12              36.166
36-5-13              36.167
36-6-1               36.180
36-6-2               36.181
36-6-3               36.182
36-6-4               36.183
36-6-5               36.184
36-6-6               36.185
36-6-7               36.186
36-6-8               36.187
36-7-40              36.040
36-7-41              36.040
36-7-45              36.041
36-7-46              36.041
36-8-1               36.044
36-8-2               36.044
36-8-3               36.044
36-8-4               36.044
36-9-1               36.045
36-9-2               36.045
36-9-4               36.046
36-9-5               36.046
36-10-1              36.047
36-11-1              36.048
36-11-2              36.048
36-11-3              36.048
36-11-4              36.048
36-12-1              36.049
36-12-2              36.049
36-13-1              36.050
36-13-2              36.050
Exhibit A            33.04
                     
 
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
4-17-06  - -         34.008
04-17-06 - -         34.009
10-17-05 - -         34.005
86-27    - -         36.040
97-57    - -         34.006
86-1     1-17-1986   36.100 -
                     36.102
90-34    - -1990     34.011
91-23    6-28-1991   32.032,
                     32.051
93-27    8-16-1993   52.25
97-40    7-21-1997   36.183
1999-32  6-28-1999   33.15 -
                     33.21
97-46    9-15-1999   34.006
99-57    - -1999     111.07
00-04    1-17-2000   34.063
01-62    11-26-2001  113.18
02-54    12-16-2002  36.055
03-58    6-16-2003   36.049
04-49    5-17-2004   34.009
04-73    6-21-2004   36.056
05-13    3-21-2005   36.055
05-26    4-18-2005   36.120
05-30    5-16-2005   36.103,
                     36.104
        9-19-2005   52.01 -
                     52.07
06-49    7-17-2006   30.02
06-55    8-21-2006   34.025 -
                     34.035
07-64    9-17-2007   34.001
                     50.01 -
08-10    3-17-2008   50.11,
                     50.99
08-65    8-18-2008   36.042
08-93    11-17-2008  31.30 -
                     31.46
09-23    4-20-2009   36.043
       8-17-2009   30.03
       12-21-2009  33.02
      2-16-2010   30.05
       3-15-2010   30.01
10-47    6-21-2010   35.003
11-45    7-18-2011   30.04
13-44    4-15-2013   32.001 -
                     32.019
                     90.01 -
       1-21-2014   90.21,
                     90.99
14-06    1-21-2014   36.043
                     130.01 -
14-32    5-19-2014   130.06,
                     130.99
                     110.01 -
14-71    9-15-2014   110.19,
                     110.99
                     93.01 -
14-72    9-15-2014   93.08,
                     93.99
                     51.01 -
04-106   10-18-2014  51.08,
                     51.99
        11-17-2014  33.01
                     33.40 -
14-07    12-15-2014  33.43,
                     33.46,
                     33.99
                     92.01 -
                     92.08,
        3-16-2015   92.10 -
                     92.14,
                     92.99
15-72    7-22-2015   110.01
15-92    11-16-2015  111.07,
                     111.08
15-102   12-21-2015  32.105 -
                     32.107
                     92.01 -
16-51    7-18-2016   92.16,
                     92.99
16-52    7-18-2016   Adopting Ordinance
                     92.01 -
16-60    8-15-2016   92.16,
                     92.99
16-79    10-17-2016  33.70 -
                     33.75
17-03    1-17-2017   33.70 -
                     33.75
17-19    3-29-2017   94.01
                     110.01 -
17-24    4-17-2017   110.19,
                     110.99
17-33    5-15-2017   34.012
                     33.40 -
17-48    - -         33.46,
                     33.99
17-76    9-18-2017   94.01
17-78    10-16-2017  Adopting Ordinance
                     110.01 -
17-99    12-18-2017  110.19,
                     110.99
17-100   12-18-2017  33.05
18-02    1-16-2018   32.057
                     110.01 -
18-08    2-20-2018   110.19,
                     110.99
18-37    5-21-2018   94.02
                     130.01 -
18-63    7-16-2018   130.06,
                     130.99
                     115.01 -
                     115.03,
                     115.15 -
                     115.21,
                     115.30 -
18-73    8-20-2018   115.32,
                     115.45 -
                     115.47,
                     115.60,
                     115.61,
                     115.99
                     36.001 -
19-52    5-20-2019   36.005,
                     36.015 -
                     36.030
                    
 
 
 
